
=== TEMPERATURE (338 occurrences) ===
1. ...ollowed by a relocation to another sub-domain. Each relocation is followed by more fluctuations within the new closed volume. This pattern describes a fluid at thermal equilibrium, defined by a given **temperature**. Within such a fluid, there exists no preferential direction of flow (as in transport phenomena). More specifically, the fluid's overall linear and angular momenta remain null over time. The kinetic...
2. ...s, and how many atoms there are in a mole, or the molecular weight in grams, of a gas. In accordance to Avogadro's law, this volume is the same for all ideal gases, which is 22.414 liters at standard **temperature** and pressure. The number of atoms contained in this volume is referred to as the Avogadro number, and the determination of this number is tantamount to the knowledge of the mass of an atom, since the...
3. ...ference in density of particles separated by a height difference, of formula_25, is the Boltzmann constant (the ratio of the universal gas constant, , to the Avogadro constant, ), and is the absolute **temperature**. Dynamic equilibrium is established because the more that particles are pulled down by gravity, the greater the tendency for the particles to migrate to regions of lower concentration. The flux is gi...
4. ...zmann constant as , and the fourth equality follows from Stokes's formula for the mobility. By measuring the mean squared displacement over a time interval along with the universal gas constant , the **temperature** , the viscosity , and the particle radius , the Avogadro constant can be determined. The type of dynamical equilibrium proposed by Einstein was not new. It had been pointed out previously by J. J. Th...
5. ...e energy of the system. A colloid is stable if the interaction energy due to attractive forces between the colloidal particles is less than kT, where k is the Boltzmann constant and T is the absolute **temperature**. If this is the case, then the colloidal particles will repel or only weakly attract each other, and the substance will remain a suspension. If the interaction energy is greater than kT, the attracti...
6. ...often required for the formulator to use further accelerating methods to reach reasonable development time for new product design. Thermal methods are the most commonly used and consist of increasing **temperature** to accelerate destabilisation (below critical temperatures of phase inversion or chemical degradation). Temperature affects not only viscosity, but also interfacial tension in the case of non-ionic s...
7. ...roduct design. Thermal methods are the most commonly used and consist of increasing temperature to accelerate destabilisation (below critical temperatures of phase inversion or chemical degradation). **Temperature** affects not only viscosity, but also interfacial tension in the case of non-ionic surfactants or more generally interactions forces inside the system. Storing a dispersion at high temperatures enable...
8. ...the formulator must accelerate this process in order to test products in a reasonable time during product design. Thermal methods are the most commonly used – these consist of increasing the emulsion **temperature** to accelerate destabilization (if below critical temperatures for phase inversion or chemical degradation). Temperature affects not only the viscosity but also the interfacial tension in the case of...
9. ...l methods are the most commonly used – these consist of increasing the emulsion temperature to accelerate destabilization (if below critical temperatures for phase inversion or chemical degradation). **Temperature** affects not only the viscosity but also the interfacial tension in the case of non-ionic surfactants or, on a broader scope, interactions between droplets within the system. Storing an emulsion at hi...
10. ...s" means that the components of the mixture form a single phase. "Heterogeneous" means that the components of the mixture are of different phase. The properties of the mixture (such as concentration, **temperature**, and density) can be uniformly distributed through the volume but only in absence of diffusion phenomena or after their completion. Usually, the substance present in the greatest amount is considered...
11. ...ity. Diffusion forces efficiently counteract gravitation forces under normal conditions prevailing on Earth. The case of condensable vapors is different: once the saturation vapor pressure at a given **temperature** is reached, vapor excess condenses into the liquid state. Liquids dissolve gases, other liquids, and solids. An example of a dissolved gas is oxygen in water, which allows fish to breathe under water...
12. ...te particles can be dissolved; the solution is said to be saturated. However, the point at which a solution can become saturated can change significantly with different environmental factors, such as **temperature**, pressure, and contamination. For some solute-solvent combinations, a supersaturated solution can be prepared by raising the solubility (for example by increasing the temperature) to dissolve more so...
13. ...tal factors, such as temperature, pressure, and contamination. For some solute-solvent combinations, a supersaturated solution can be prepared by raising the solubility (for example by increasing the **temperature**) to dissolve more solute and then lowering it (for example by cooling). Usually, the greater the temperature of the solvent, the more of a given solid solute it can dissolve. However, most gases and...
14. ...aturated solution can be prepared by raising the solubility (for example by increasing the temperature) to dissolve more solute and then lowering it (for example by cooling). Usually, the greater the **temperature** of the solvent, the more of a given solid solute it can dissolve. However, most gases and some compounds exhibit solubilities that decrease with increased temperature. Such behavior is a result of an...
15. ...oling). Usually, the greater the temperature of the solvent, the more of a given solid solute it can dissolve. However, most gases and some compounds exhibit solubilities that decrease with increased **temperature**. Such behavior is a result of an exothermic enthalpy of solution. Some surfactants exhibit this behaviour. The solubility of liquids in liquids is generally less temperature-sensitive than that of so...
16. ...t decrease with increased temperature. Such behavior is a result of an exothermic enthalpy of solution. Some surfactants exhibit this behaviour. The solubility of liquids in liquids is generally less **temperature**-sensitive than that of solids or gases. The physical properties of compounds such as melting point and boiling point change when other compounds are added. Together they are called colligative proper...
17. ...n range from mild to severe, and are potentially fatal. Symptoms in mild cases include high blood pressure and a fast heart rate; usually without a fever. Symptoms in moderate cases include high body **temperature**, agitation, increased reflexes, tremor, sweating, dilated pupils, and diarrhea. In severe cases, body temperature can increase to greater than . Complications may include seizures and extensive muscl...
18. ...ast heart rate; usually without a fever. Symptoms in moderate cases include high body temperature, agitation, increased reflexes, tremor, sweating, dilated pupils, and diarrhea. In severe cases, body **temperature** can increase to greater than . Complications may include seizures and extensive muscle breakdown. Serotonin syndrome is typically caused by the use of two or more serotonergic medications or drugs. T...
19. ...ions which may be contributing. In those who are agitated, benzodiazepines may be used. If this is not sufficient, a serotonin antagonist such as cyproheptadine may be used. In those with a high body **temperature**, active cooling measures may be needed. The number of cases of SS that occur each year is unclear. With appropriate medical intervention the risk of death is low, likely less than 1%. The high-profil...
20. ...ereas hyperreflexia is symptomatic of exposure to serotonin agonists. Moderate intoxication includes additional abnormalities such as hyperactive bowel sounds, high blood pressure and hyperthermia; a **temperature** as high as . The overactive reflexes and clonus in moderate cases may be greater in the lower limbs than in the upper limbs. Mental changes include hypervigilance or insomnia and agitation. Severe sy...
21. ...may be greater in the lower limbs than in the upper limbs. Mental changes include hypervigilance or insomnia and agitation. Severe symptoms include severe increases in heart rate and blood pressure. **Temperature** may rise to above in life-threatening cases. Other abnormalities include metabolic acidosis, rhabdomyolysis, seizures, kidney failure, and disseminated intravascular coagulation; these effects usuall...
22. ...lation is an important factor in determining the course of treatment. Serotonin is catabolized by monoamine oxidase A in the presence of oxygen, so if care is taken to prevent an unsafe spike in body **temperature** or metabolic acidosis, oxygenation will assist in dispatching the excess serotonin. The same principle applies to alcohol intoxication. In cases of SS caused by MAOIs, oxygenation will not help to di...
23. ...recommended for muscular paralysis as it may increase the risk of cardiac dysrhythmia from hyperkalemia associated with rhabdomyolysis. Antipyretic agents are not recommended as the increase in body **temperature** is due to muscular activity, not a hypothalamic temperature set point abnormality. Upon the discontinuation of serotonergic drugs, most cases of SS resolve within 24 hours, although in some cases del...
24. ...isk of cardiac dysrhythmia from hyperkalemia associated with rhabdomyolysis. Antipyretic agents are not recommended as the increase in body temperature is due to muscular activity, not a hypothalamic **temperature** set point abnormality. Upon the discontinuation of serotonergic drugs, most cases of SS resolve within 24 hours, although in some cases delirium may persist for a number of days. Symptoms typically p...
25. ...of fast C gel phase NMR spectroscopy and magic angle spinning 1 H NMR spectroscopy to monitor the progress of reactions and showed that most imines could be formed in as little as 10 minutes at room **temperature** when trimethyl orthoformate was used as the solvent. The formed imines were then derivatized to generate 4-thiazolidinones, B-lactams, and pyrrolidines. The use of solid-phase supports greatly simpli...
26. ...solvent removal occurs under supercritical conditions, the network does not shrink and a highly porous, low-density material known as an "aerogel" is produced. Heat treatment of a xerogel at elevated **temperature** produces viscous sintering (shrinkage of the xerogel due to a small amount of viscous flow) which results in a denser and more robust solid, the density and porosity achieved depend on the sintering...
27. ...e at high field strengths. The following table gives some typical values. The relative low frequency permittivity of ice is ~96 at −10.8 °C, falling to 3.15 at high frequency, which is independent of **temperature**. It remains in the range 3.12–3.19 for frequencies between about 1 MHz and the far infrared region. The relative static permittivity, "ε", can be measured for static electric fields as follows: first...
28. ...s of transmission. However, in these cases it is technically the relative permittivity that matters, as they are not operated in the electrostatic limit. The relative permittivity of air changes with **temperature**, humidity, and barometric pressure. Sensors can be constructed to detect changes in capacitance caused by changes in the relative permittivity. Most of this change is due to effects of temperature an...
29. ...th temperature, humidity, and barometric pressure. Sensors can be constructed to detect changes in capacitance caused by changes in the relative permittivity. Most of this change is due to effects of **temperature** and humidity as the barometric pressure is fairly stable. Using the capacitance change, along with the measured temperature, the relative humidity can be obtained using engineering formulas. The rela...
30. ...nges in the relative permittivity. Most of this change is due to effects of temperature and humidity as the barometric pressure is fairly stable. Using the capacitance change, along with the measured **temperature**, the relative humidity can be obtained using engineering formulas. The relative static permittivity of a solvent is a relative measure of its chemical polarity. For example, water is very polar, and...
31. ...ng from biogenic sources and human-made. Volcanic aerosol forms in the stratosphere after an eruption as droplets of sulfuric acid that can prevail for up to two years, and reflect sunlight, lowering **temperature**. Desert dust, mineral particles blown to high altitudes, absorb heat and may be responsible for inhibiting storm cloud formation. Human-made sulfate aerosols, primarily from burning oil and coal, aff...
32. ...ng from biogenic sources and human-made. Volcanic aerosol forms in the stratosphere after an eruption as droplets of sulfuric acid that can prevail for up to two years, and reflect sunlight, lowering **temperature**. Desert dust, mineral particles blown to high altitudes, absorb heat and may be responsible for inhibiting storm cloud formation. Human-made sulfate aerosols, primarily from burning oil and coal, aff...
33. ...ree molecular regime is: where "a" is the particle radius, "P" and "P" are the pressures far from the droplet and at the surface of the droplet respectively, "k" is the Boltzmann constant, "T" is the **temperature**, "C" is mean thermal velocity and "α" is mass accommodation coefficient. The derivation of this equation assumes constant pressure and constant diffusion coefficient. Particles are in the "continuum...
34. ...: where "a" is the radius of the particle "A", "M" is the molecular mass of the particle "A", "D" is the diffusion coefficient between particles "A" and "B", "R" is the ideal gas constant, "T" is the **temperature** (in absolute units like kelvin), and "P" and "P" are the pressures at infinite and at the surface respectively. The "transition regime" contains all the particles in between the free molecular and co...
35. ...is the saturation ratio. Kelvin equation for saturation vapor pressure above a curved surface is: where "r" droplet radius, "σ" surface tension of droplet, "ρ" density of liquid, "M" molar mass, "T" **temperature**, and "R" molar gas constant. There are no general solutions to the general dynamic equation (GDE); common methods used to solve the general dynamic equation include: Aerosols can either be measured i...
36. ...mpathomimetics, that is they stimulate the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system. This leads to effects such as mydriasis, increased heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate and body **temperature**. When these changes become pathological, they are called arrhythmia, hypertension, and hyperthermia, and may lead to rhabdomyolysis, stroke, cardiac arrest, or seizures. However, given the complexity...
37. ...ator or Powder Compaction Simulator. This is a computer controlled device that can measure the punch positions, punch pressures, friction forces, die wall pressures, and sometimes the tablet internal **temperature** during the compaction event. Numerous experiments with small quantities of different mixtures can be performed to optimise a formulation. Mathematically corrected punch motions can be programmed to s...
38. ...o treat traveler's diarrhea, as a vehicle for the administration of food, water or medicine, as a stimulant to the general system, as a local application and, more rarely, as a means of reducing body **temperature**, as treatment for encopresis, and as a form of rehydration therapy (proctoclysis) in patients for whom intravenous therapy is not applicable. The principal medical usages of enemas are: As bowel stim...
39. ...tion of the intestinal mucosa which stimulates peristalsis and lubricates the stool to encourage a bowel movement. An enema's efficacy depends on several factors including the volume injected and the **temperature** and the contents of the infusion. In order for the enema to be effective the patient should retain the solution for five to ten minutes, as tolerated. or, as some nursing textbooks recommend, for fiv...
40. ...owel mucosa irritant serving to induce peristalsis via a hyperosmotic effect. It is used in a dilute solution, e.g., 5%. Equal parts of milk and molasses heated together to slightly above normal body **temperature** have been used. Neither the milk sugars and proteins nor the molasses are absorbed in the lower intestine, thus keeping the water from the enema in the intestine. Studies have shown that milk and mol...
41. ...e hydrophobic core of the micelles. The micelle can remove grease, protein or soiling particles. The concentration at which micelles start to form is the critical micelle concentration (CMC), and the **temperature** at which the micelles further aggregate to separate the solution into two phases is the cloud point when the solution becomes cloudy and detergency is optimal. Detergents work better in an alkaline p...
42. ...ntaining hydrophilic groups, which are bonded to hydrophobic parent structures. The water-solubility of the oxygen groups is the result of hydrogen bonding. Hydrogen bonding decreases with increasing **temperature**, and the water solubility of non-ionic surfactants therefore decreases with increasing temperature. Non-ionic surfactants are less sensitive to water hardness than anionic surfactants, and they foam...
43. ...y of the oxygen groups is the result of hydrogen bonding. Hydrogen bonding decreases with increasing temperature, and the water solubility of non-ionic surfactants therefore decreases with increasing **temperature**. Non-ionic surfactants are less sensitive to water hardness than anionic surfactants, and they foam less strongly. The differences between the individual types of non-ionic surfactants are slight, an...
44. ...ty acid ethoxylates are a class of very versatile surfactants, which combine in a single molecule the characteristic of a weakly anionic, pH-responsive head group with the presence of stabilizing and **temperature** responsive ethyleneoxide units. Spans: Tweens: Surfactants are usually organic compounds that are akin to amphiphilic, which means that this molecule, being as double-agent, each contains a hydrophil...
45. ...of water can be dried out of the particles at lower temperatures if larger towers are used. Alternatively, the slurry can be sprayed into a partial vacuum. Since the boiling point of a solvent is the **temperature** at which the vapor pressure of the solvent is equal to the ambient pressure, reducing pressure in the tower has the effect of lowering the boiling point of the solvent. The application of the spray d...
46. ...ed residence times. Recent research is now suggesting that the use of spray-drying techniques may be an alternative method for crystallization of amorphous powders during the drying process since the **temperature** effects on the amorphous powders may be significant depending on drying residence times. The spray drying process contains a variety of input parameters that can alter the shape and size of yielded p...
47. ...rticle can take towards its yielded shape and size. Certain parameters like spraying gas flow, feed rate, and the solution concentration heavily influence the yielded particle size, whereas the inlet **temperature** plays a significant role into the shape of the particle at the end. Particle size has a great correlation with the original size of the solution droplet from the atomizer, so the greatest way to cont...
48. ...ng the initial droplet larger or smaller. Once the initial droplet enters the drying chamber, the droplet can continue to crust formation, or no particle will be formed. From the crust formation, the **temperature** of the drying process and duration of the particle in the drying process can lead the particle toward a dry shell or a deformed particle. The dry shell can proceed into a solid particle or a shattere...
49. ...high-voltage capacitors. Vegetable oils such as castor oil are typically unattractive alternatives to petroleum-derived lubricants because of their poor oxidative stability. Castor oil has better low-**temperature** viscosity properties and high-temperature lubrication than most vegetable oils, making it useful as a lubricant in jet, diesel, and racing engines. The viscosity of castor oil at 10 °C is 2,420 centi...
50. ...ch as castor oil are typically unattractive alternatives to petroleum-derived lubricants because of their poor oxidative stability. Castor oil has better low-temperature viscosity properties and high-**temperature** lubrication than most vegetable oils, making it useful as a lubricant in jet, diesel, and racing engines. The viscosity of castor oil at 10 °C is 2,420 centipoise, but it tends to form gums in a shor...
51. ...rounding tissue, most commonly a vesicant or chemotherapeutic agent. In such cases, the infiltration is termed extravasation, and may cause necrosis. If the solutions administered are colder than the **temperature** of the body, induced hypothermia can occur. If the temperature change to the heart is rapid, ventricular fibrillation may result. Furthermore, if a solution which is not balanced in concentration is...
52. ...gent. In such cases, the infiltration is termed extravasation, and may cause necrosis. If the solutions administered are colder than the temperature of the body, induced hypothermia can occur. If the **temperature** change to the heart is rapid, ventricular fibrillation may result. Furthermore, if a solution which is not balanced in concentration is administered, a person's electrolytes may become imbalanced. In...
53. ...es and solutes is usually described through isotherms, that is, the amount of adsorbate on the adsorbent as a function of its pressure (if gas) or concentration (for liquid phase solutes) at constant **temperature**. The quantity adsorbed is nearly always normalized by the mass of the adsorbent to allow comparison of different materials. To date, 15 different isotherm models have been developed. The first mathem...
54. ...ressure of adsorbate (this can be changed to concentration if investigating solution rather than gas), and formula_5 and formula_6 are empirical constants for each adsorbent–adsorbate pair at a given **temperature**. The function is not adequate at very high pressure because in reality formula_7 has an asymptotic maximum as pressure increases without bound. As the temperature increases, the constants formula_5 a...
55. ...adsorbent–adsorbate pair at a given temperature. The function is not adequate at very high pressure because in reality formula_7 has an asymptotic maximum as pressure increases without bound. As the **temperature** increases, the constants formula_5 and formula_6 change to reflect the empirical observation that the quantity adsorbed rises more slowly and higher pressures are required to saturate the surface. Ir...
56. ...gh pressures formula_16. The value of formula_11 is difficult to measure experimentally; usually, the adsorbate is a gas and the quantity adsorbed is given in moles, grams, or gas volumes at standard **temperature** and pressure (STP) per gram of adsorbent. If we call "v" the STP volume of adsorbate required to form a monolayer on the adsorbent (per gram of adsorbent), then formula_18, and we obtain an expressio...
57. ...ent), then formula_18, and we obtain an expression for a straight line: Through its slope and "y" intercept we can obtain "v" and "K", which are constants for each adsorbent–adsorbate pair at a given **temperature**. "v" is related to the number of adsorption sites through the ideal gas law. If we assume that the number of sites is just the whole area of the solid divided into the cross section of the adsorbate...
58. ...ws: The derivation of the formula is more complicated than Langmuir's (see links for complete derivation). We obtain: where "x" is the pressure divided by the vapor pressure for the adsorbate at that **temperature** (usually denoted formula_25), "v" is the STP volume of adsorbed adsorbate, "v" is the STP volume of the amount of adsorbate required to form a monolayer, and "c" is the equilibrium constant "K" we us...
59. ...l accumulate over time giving the adsorption curve over time. If the desorption rate is larger, the number of molecules on the surface will decrease over time. The adsorption rate is dependent on the **temperature**, the diffusion rate of the solute (related to mean free path for pure gas), and the energy barrier between the molecule and the surface. The diffusion and key elements of the adsorption rate can be c...
60. ...pecial care to determine a specific value of formula_37 in a particular measurement. The desorption of a molecule from the surface depends on the binding energy of the molecule to the surface and the **temperature**. The typical overall adsorption rate is thus often a combined result of the adsorption and desorption. Since 1980 two theories were worked on to explain adsorption and obtain equations that work. The...
61. ...nitions of the other symbols is as follows: where "ads" stands for "adsorbed", "m" stands for "monolayer equivalence" and "vap" is reference to the vapor pressure of the liquid adsorptive at the same **temperature** as the solid sample. The unit function creates the definition of the molar energy of adsorption for the first adsorbed molecule by: The plot of formula_42 adsorbed versus formula_43 is referred to as...
62. ...tural gas) and adsorption of heavy (polar) hydrocarbons from natural gas. Zeolites are natural or synthetic crystalline aluminosilicates, which have a repeating pore network and release water at high **temperature**. Zeolites are polar in nature. They are manufactured by hydrothermal synthesis of sodium aluminosilicate or another silica source in an autoclave followed by ion exchange with certain cations (Na, Li...
63. ...e silica sources or by dealumination of aluminum-containing zeolites. The dealumination process is done by treating the zeolite with steam at elevated temperatures, typically greater than . This high **temperature** heat treatment breaks the aluminum-oxygen bonds and the aluminum atom is expelled from the zeolite framework. The term "adsorption" itself was coined by Heinrich Kayser in 1881 in the context of upta...
64. ...aterial over in an oxygen-free atmosphere that cannot support combustion. The carbonized particles are then "activated" by exposing them to an oxidizing agent, usually steam or carbon dioxide at high **temperature**. This agent burns off the pore blocking structures created during the carbonization phase and so, they develop a porous, three-dimensional graphite lattice structure. The size of the pores developed...
65. ..., chemical reaction pathways and catalytic performance in a wide range of systems. In the case of physically adsorbed water, surface hydration can be eliminated simply through drying at conditions of **temperature** and pressure allowing full vaporization of water. For chemically adsorbed water, hydration may be in the form of either dissociative adsorption, where HO molecules are dissociated into surface adsorb...
66. ...proposed for carbon capture and storage are zeolites and MOFs. The customization of adsorbents makes them a potentially attractive alternative to absorption. Because adsorbents can be regenerated by **temperature** or pressure swing, this step can be less energy intensive than absorption regeneration methods. Major problems that are present with adsorption cost in carbon capture are: regenerating the adsorbent,...
67. ...of the use of azodicarbonamide as a blowing agent is found in the manufacture of vinyl (PVC) and EVA-PE foams, where it plays a role in the formation of air bubbles by breaking down into gas at high **temperature**. The random or "stochastic" geometry of these foams makes them good for energy absorption, as well. In the late 20th century to early 21st century, new manufacturing techniques have allowed for geome...
68. ...solid, in that it holds its shape indefinitely like a solid, but it can be forced to take the shape of its container without breaking apart, like a liquid, though it does not flow on its own. At room **temperature**, it has 20.9% solid fat content. Its partially crystalline stacks of lamellar sheets, which immobilize the liquid portion, make up its microstructure. In general, only 7–13% of it is made up of high...
69. ...i l-Madd wa l-Fazr" ("Treatise on the Efficient Cause of the Flow and Ebb"), al-Kindi presents a theory on tides which "depends on the changes which take place in bodies owing to the rise and fall of **temperature**." In order to support his argument, he gave a description of a scientific experiment as follows: One can also observe by the senses... how in consequence of extreme cold air changes into water. To do...
70. ...r is used by marksmen to blacken the front and rear sights of rifles to prevent the sights from reflecting. This is done by setting light to a small amount of camphor, which burns at a relatively low **temperature**, and using the soot rising from the flame to deposit a coating on a surface held above it. Historically, this soot blackening was also used to coat barograph record charts. Camphor is believed to be...
71. ...or living at one time. They are the biggest enemy of indoor air quality specialists because they are contaminants that cause health problems. Levels of biological contamination depend on humidity and **temperature** that supports the livelihood of micro-organisms. The presence of pets, plants, rodents, and insects will raise the level of biological contamination. Sheath air is clean filtered air that surrounds t...
72. ...inders, and bilayers, are also possible. The shape and size of a micelle are a function of the molecular geometry of its surfactant molecules and solution conditions such as surfactant concentration, **temperature**, pH, and ionic strength. The process of forming micelles is known as micellisation and forms part of the phase behaviour of many lipids according to their polymorphism. The ability of a soapy solutio...
73. ...een from the point of view of an effective charge in hydration of the system. Micelles form only when the concentration of surfactant is greater than the critical micelle concentration (CMC), and the **temperature** of the system is greater than the critical micelle temperature, or Krafft temperature. The formation of micelles can be understood using thermodynamics: Micelles can form spontaneously because of a b...
74. ...of the system. Micelles form only when the concentration of surfactant is greater than the critical micelle concentration (CMC), and the temperature of the system is greater than the critical micelle **temperature**, or Krafft temperature. The formation of micelles can be understood using thermodynamics: Micelles can form spontaneously because of a balance between entropy and enthalpy. In water, the hydrophobic...
75. ...form only when the concentration of surfactant is greater than the critical micelle concentration (CMC), and the temperature of the system is greater than the critical micelle temperature, or Krafft **temperature**. The formation of micelles can be understood using thermodynamics: Micelles can form spontaneously because of a balance between entropy and enthalpy. In water, the hydrophobic effect is the driving f...
76. ...ally frozen micelles". These can be achieved in two ways: when the unimers forming the micelles are not soluble in the solvent of the micelle solution, or if the core forming blocks are glassy at the **temperature** in which the micelles are found. Kinetically frozen micelles are formed when either of these conditions is met. A special example in which both of these conditions are valid is that of polystyrene-b-...
77. ...ene oxide). This block copolymer is characterized by the high hydrophobicity of the core forming block, PS, which causes the unimers to be insoluble in water. Moreover, PS has a high glass transition **temperature** which is, depending on the molecular weight, higher than room temperature. Thanks to these two characteristics, a water solution of PS-PEO micelles of sufficiently high molecular weight can be consid...
78. ...ty of the core forming block, PS, which causes the unimers to be insoluble in water. Moreover, PS has a high glass transition temperature which is, depending on the molecular weight, higher than room **temperature**. Thanks to these two characteristics, a water solution of PS-PEO micelles of sufficiently high molecular weight can be considered kinetically frozen. This means that none of the relaxation processes,...
79. ...ired for the formulator to use further accelerating methods in order to reach reasonable development time for new product design. Thermal methods are the most commonly used and consists in increasing **temperature** to accelerate destabilisation (below critical temperatures of phase and degradation). Temperature affects not only the viscosity, but also interfacial tension in the case of non-ionic surfactants or...
80. ...nt time for new product design. Thermal methods are the most commonly used and consists in increasing temperature to accelerate destabilisation (below critical temperatures of phase and degradation). **Temperature** affects not only the viscosity, but also interfacial tension in the case of non-ionic surfactants or more generally interactions forces inside the system. Storing a dispersion at high temperatures en...
81. ...alled ATP is often actually Mg-ATP. Nucleic acids have an important range of interactions with Mg. The binding of Mg to DNA and RNA stabilises structure; this can be observed in the increased melting **temperature** ("T") of double-stranded DNA in the presence of Mg. In addition, ribosomes contain large amounts of Mg and the stabilisation provided is essential to the complexation of this ribo-protein. A large nu...
82. ...ly honey. Modern teapills, however, are extracted in stainless steel extractors to create either a water decoction or water-alcohol decoction, depending on the herbs used. They are extracted at a low **temperature** (below ) to preserve essential ingredients. The extracted liquid is then further condensed, and some raw herb powder from one of the herbal ingredients is mixed in to form a herbal dough. This dough...
83. ...t imbalance. Short day length promotes asparagine formation, whereas glutamine is produced under long day regimes. Darkness favors protein breakdown accompanied by high asparagine accumulation. Night **temperature** modifies the effects due to night length, and soluble nitrogen tends to accumulate owing to retarded synthesis and breakdown of proteins. Low night temperature conserves glutamine; high night tempera...
84. ...by high asparagine accumulation. Night temperature modifies the effects due to night length, and soluble nitrogen tends to accumulate owing to retarded synthesis and breakdown of proteins. Low night **temperature** conserves glutamine; high night temperature increases accumulation of asparagine because of breakdown. Deficiency of K accentuates differences between long- and short-day plants. The pool of soluble...
85. ...erature modifies the effects due to night length, and soluble nitrogen tends to accumulate owing to retarded synthesis and breakdown of proteins. Low night temperature conserves glutamine; high night **temperature** increases accumulation of asparagine because of breakdown. Deficiency of K accentuates differences between long- and short-day plants. The pool of soluble nitrogen is much smaller than in well-nouris...
86. ...growth. When soil-potassium levels are high, plants take up more potassium than needed for healthy growth. The term "luxury consumption" has been applied to this. Potassium intake increases with root **temperature** and depresses calcium uptake. Calcium to boron ratio must be maintained in a narrow range for normal plant growth. Lack of boron causes failure of calcium metabolism which produces hollow heart in be...
87. ...low solubility in water, but is an excellent emulsifier. In aqueous solution, its phospholipids can form either liposomes, bilayer sheets, micelles, or lamellar structures, depending on hydration and **temperature**. This results in a type of surfactant that usually is classified as amphipathic. Lecithin is sold as a food additive and dietary supplement. In cooking, it is sometimes used as an emulsifier and to p...
88. ...inal yeast infections is one of the most common uses of pharmaceutical pessaries. They are also known as vaginal suppositories, which are inserted into the vagina and are designed to dissolve at body **temperature**. They usually contain a single use antifungal agent such as clotrimazole. Oral antifungal agents are also available. Pessaries can also be used in a similar way to help induce labor for women who hav...
89. ...ation of anesthetic agents from liquid, and then accurately controlling the concentration in which these are added to the fresh gas flow. The design of these devices takes account of varying: ambient **temperature**, fresh gas flow, and agent vapor pressure. There are generally two types of vaporizers: plenum and drawover. Both have distinct advantages and disadvantages. The "dual-circuit gas-vapor blender" is a...
90. ...ith the wrong agent is extremely difficult. A mixture of two agents in a vaporizer could result in unpredictable performance from the vaporizer. Saturated vapor pressure for any one agent varies with **temperature**, and plenum vaporizers are designed to operate within a specific temperature range. They have several features designed to compensate for temperature changes (especially cooling by evaporation). They...
91. ...rizer could result in unpredictable performance from the vaporizer. Saturated vapor pressure for any one agent varies with temperature, and plenum vaporizers are designed to operate within a specific **temperature** range. They have several features designed to compensate for temperature changes (especially cooling by evaporation). They often have a metal jacket weighing about 5 kg, which equilibrates with the t...
92. ...ated vapor pressure for any one agent varies with temperature, and plenum vaporizers are designed to operate within a specific temperature range. They have several features designed to compensate for **temperature** changes (especially cooling by evaporation). They often have a metal jacket weighing about 5 kg, which equilibrates with the temperature in the room and provides a source of heat. In addition, the en...
93. ...e range. They have several features designed to compensate for temperature changes (especially cooling by evaporation). They often have a metal jacket weighing about 5 kg, which equilibrates with the **temperature** in the room and provides a source of heat. In addition, the entrance to the vaporizing chamber is controlled by a bimetallic strip, which admits more gas to the chamber as it cools, to compensate for...
94. ...ition, the entrance to the vaporizing chamber is controlled by a bimetallic strip, which admits more gas to the chamber as it cools, to compensate for the loss of efficiency of evaporation. The first **temperature**-compensated plenum vaporizer was the Cyprane 'FluoTEC' Halothane vaporizer, released onto the market shortly after Halothane was introduced into clinical practice in 1956. The drawover vaporizer is d...
95. ...r. The drawover vaporizer may be mounted either way round, and may be used in circuits where re-breathing takes place, or inside the circle breathing attachment. Drawover vaporizers typically have no **temperature** compensating features. With prolonged use, the liquid agent may cool to the point where condensation and even frost may form on the outside of the reservoir. This cooling impairs the efficiency of th...
96. ...veterinary anesthesia. The third category of vaporizer (the dual-circuit gas–vapor blender) was created specifically for the agent desflurane. Desflurane boils at 23.5 °C, which is very close to room **temperature**. This means that at normal operating temperatures, the saturated vapor pressure of desflurane changes greatly with only small fluctuations in temperature. This means that the features of a normal ple...
97. ...boils at 23.5 °C, which is very close to room temperature. This means that at normal operating temperatures, the saturated vapor pressure of desflurane changes greatly with only small fluctuations in **temperature**. This means that the features of a normal plenum vaporizer are not sufficient to ensure an accurate concentration of desflurane. Additionally, on a very warm day, all the desflurane would boil, and v...
98. ...ction of cyclopropane, trichloroethylene, and halothane. By the 1980s, the anesthetic vaporizer had evolved considerably; subsequent modifications lead to a raft of additional safety features such as **temperature** compensation, a bimetallic strip, temperature-adjusted splitting ratio and anti-spill measures. The "breathing circuit" is the ducting through which the breathing gases flow from the machine to the p...
99. ...halothane. By the 1980s, the anesthetic vaporizer had evolved considerably; subsequent modifications lead to a raft of additional safety features such as temperature compensation, a bimetallic strip, **temperature**-adjusted splitting ratio and anti-spill measures. The "breathing circuit" is the ducting through which the breathing gases flow from the machine to the patient and back, and includes components for m...
100. ...ents: Systems for monitoring the patient's heart rate, ECG, blood pressure and oxygen saturation may be incorporated, in some cases with additional options for monitoring end-tidal carbon dioxide and **temperature**. Breathing systems are also typically incorporated, including a manual reservoir bag for ventilation in combination with an adjustable pressure-limiting valve, as well as an integrated mechanical ven...
101. ...lectrons by breaking up the π-electron clouds and sterically protects the electrons which normally would be too reactive to persist. The ferromagnetism of the carbon nanofoam is sensitive to time and **temperature**. Some magnetism is lost within the first few hours of synthesis, however most of it is persistent. Carbon nanofoam may have some application in spintronic devices which exploits electron spin as a fu...
102. ...f freedom. Carbon nanofoam may be suitable for hydrogen storage due to its low density and high surface area. Preliminary experimentation has shown that hydrogen can be stored in the nanofoam at room **temperature** in a reversible process. Carbon nanofoam clusters can be synthesized through high-repetition-rate laser ablation in inert gases such as argon. Short (fs), low-energy (μJ) pulses delivered at high rat...
103. ...lation in inert gases such as argon. Short (fs), low-energy (μJ) pulses delivered at high rates of repetition (10 kHz – 100 MHz) generate carbon vapors for deposition. Ambient gas is heated from room **temperature** with the atomized carbon which leads to an increase in the partial density of the carbon in the chamber. In optimal conditions, the inert gas does not cool down but maintains its high temperature bet...
104. ...oom temperature with the atomized carbon which leads to an increase in the partial density of the carbon in the chamber. In optimal conditions, the inert gas does not cool down but maintains its high **temperature** between cycles of formation. Subsequent cycles in the chamber are carried out at temperatures above the formation threshold temperature initiating sp bonding. The increase in density and temperature...
105. ...itions, the inert gas does not cool down but maintains its high temperature between cycles of formation. Subsequent cycles in the chamber are carried out at temperatures above the formation threshold **temperature** initiating sp bonding. The increase in density and temperature promotes favorable conditions for the formation of carbonaceous clusters. The rate of consumption exceeds the rate of evaporation by las...
106. ...temperature between cycles of formation. Subsequent cycles in the chamber are carried out at temperatures above the formation threshold temperature initiating sp bonding. The increase in density and **temperature** promotes favorable conditions for the formation of carbonaceous clusters. The rate of consumption exceeds the rate of evaporation by laser ablation and thus the formation is in a non-equilibrium stat...
107. ...n can be introduced in the body without discomfort or skin irritation from conventional injection. Possibly it can also reduce the cost of storage that usually needs to be transported in a particular **temperature** and condition. Stated in cdc.gov website, Mark Prausnitz, co-developer of the microneedle, says "A major advantage of the microneedle patch would be the ease of delivery." The MNPs are small and thin...
108. ...s syringes and dirty needles are also eliminated, reducing the possibility of pathogen transmission of blood-borne disease in rural areas. In a study, measles coated MNPs might be resistant to higher **temperature** compared to vial transport. Higher temperature resistance is a safe bet in low income countries, where there is no such luxury for refrigeration. Furthermore, the delivery of the vaccine is controlle...
109. ...d, reducing the possibility of pathogen transmission of blood-borne disease in rural areas. In a study, measles coated MNPs might be resistant to higher temperature compared to vial transport. Higher **temperature** resistance is a safe bet in low income countries, where there is no such luxury for refrigeration. Furthermore, the delivery of the vaccine is controlled by the MNPs. Less requiring highly trained me...
110. ...rom the Dortmund Data Bank. They are sorted by the partition coefficient, smallest to largest (acetamide being hydrophilic, and 2,2',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl lipophilic), and are presented with the **temperature** at which they were measured (which impacts the values). Values for other compounds may be found in a variety of available reviews and monographs. Critical discussions of the challenges of measurement...
111. ...inal products. Physical hydrogels usually have high biocompatibility, are not toxic, and are also easily reversible by simply changing an external stimulus such as pH, ion concentration (alginate) or **temperature** (gelatine); they are also used for medical applications. Physical crosslinks consist of hydrogen bonds, hydrophobic interactions, and chain entanglements (among others). A hydrogel generated through...
112. ...depending on the nature of the crosslink involved. Polyvinyl alcohol hydrogels are usually produced by the freeze-thaw technique. In this, the solution is frozen for a few hours, then thawed at room **temperature**, and the cycle is repeated until a strong and stable hydrogel is formed. Alginate hydrogels are formed by ionic interactions between alginate and double-charged cations. A salt, usually calcium chlor...
113. ...s. A salt, usually calcium chloride, is dissolved into an aqueous sodium alginate solution, that causes the calcium ions to create ionic bonds between alginate chains. Gelatin hydrogels are formed by **temperature** change. A water solution of gelatin forms an hydrogel at temperatures below 37–35 °C, as Van der Waals interactions between collagen fibers become stronger than thermal molecular vibrations. Peptide...
114. ...highly crosslinked chemical gels, in which the system can be described as one continuous polymer network. In this case: formula_1 where "G" is the shear modulus, "k" is the Boltzmann constant, "T" is **temperature**, "N" is the number of polymer chains per unit volume, "ρ" is the density, "R" is the ideal gas constant, and formula_2 is the (number) average molecular weight between two adjacent cross-linking poin...
115. ...ence between the stress-strain curve during loading and unloading. Hysteresis within a hydrogel is influenced by several factors including composition, crosslink density, polymer chain structure, and **temperature**. The toughness and hysteresis of a hydrogel are especially important in the context of biomedical applications such as tissue engineering and drug delivery, as the hydrogel may need to withstand mech...
116. ...el, thereby increasing the toughness without increasing hysteresis as there is no need for the reformation of the bonds. The most commonly seen environmental sensitivity in hydrogels is a response to **temperature**. Many polymers/hydrogels exhibit a temperature dependent phase transition, which can be classified as either an upper critical solution temperature (UCST) or lower critical solution temperature (LCST...
117. ...creasing hysteresis as there is no need for the reformation of the bonds. The most commonly seen environmental sensitivity in hydrogels is a response to temperature. Many polymers/hydrogels exhibit a **temperature** dependent phase transition, which can be classified as either an upper critical solution temperature (UCST) or lower critical solution temperature (LCST). UCST polymers increase in their water-solubi...
118. ...ronmental sensitivity in hydrogels is a response to temperature. Many polymers/hydrogels exhibit a temperature dependent phase transition, which can be classified as either an upper critical solution **temperature** (UCST) or lower critical solution temperature (LCST). UCST polymers increase in their water-solubility at higher temperatures, which lead to UCST hydrogels transitioning from a gel (solid) to a solut...
119. ...se to temperature. Many polymers/hydrogels exhibit a temperature dependent phase transition, which can be classified as either an upper critical solution temperature (UCST) or lower critical solution **temperature** (LCST). UCST polymers increase in their water-solubility at higher temperatures, which lead to UCST hydrogels transitioning from a gel (solid) to a solution (liquid) as the temperature is increased (...
120. ...tical solution temperature (LCST). UCST polymers increase in their water-solubility at higher temperatures, which lead to UCST hydrogels transitioning from a gel (solid) to a solution (liquid) as the **temperature** is increased (similar to the melting point behavior of pure materials). This phenomenon also causes UCST hydrogels to expand (increase their swell ratio) as temperature increases while they are below...
121. ...to a solution (liquid) as the temperature is increased (similar to the melting point behavior of pure materials). This phenomenon also causes UCST hydrogels to expand (increase their swell ratio) as **temperature** increases while they are below their UCST. However, polymers with LCSTs display an inverse (or negative) temperature-dependence, where their water-solubility decreases at higher temperatures. LCST hy...
122. ...is phenomenon also causes UCST hydrogels to expand (increase their swell ratio) as temperature increases while they are below their UCST. However, polymers with LCSTs display an inverse (or negative) **temperature**-dependence, where their water-solubility decreases at higher temperatures. LCST hydrogels transition from a liquid solution to a solid gel as the temperature is increased, and they also shrink (decre...
123. ...th LCSTs display an inverse (or negative) temperature-dependence, where their water-solubility decreases at higher temperatures. LCST hydrogels transition from a liquid solution to a solid gel as the **temperature** is increased, and they also shrink (decrease their swell ratio) as the temperature increases while they are above their LCST. Applications can dictate for diverse thermal responses. For example, in t...
124. ...-solubility decreases at higher temperatures. LCST hydrogels transition from a liquid solution to a solid gel as the temperature is increased, and they also shrink (decrease their swell ratio) as the **temperature** increases while they are above their LCST. Applications can dictate for diverse thermal responses. For example, in the biomedical field, LCST hydrogels are being investigated as drug delivery systems...
125. ...composites, in which a cross-linkable matrix swelling additive is added. Other additives, such as nanoparticles and microparticles, have been shown to significantly modify the stiffness and gelation **temperature** of certain hydrogels used in biomedical applications. While a hydrogel's mechanical properties can be tuned and modified through crosslink concentration and additives, these properties can also be en...
126. ...Some of these processing techniques can be used synergistically with each other to yield optimal mechanical properties. Directional freezing or freeze-casting is another method in which a directional **temperature** gradient is applied to the hydrogel is another way to form materials with anisotropic mechanical properties. Utilizing both the freeze-casting and salting-out processing techniques on poly(vinyl alco...
127. ...ts the choice of drugs. Since skin is the main medium of topical drug delivery system, its conditions determine the rate of skin penetration leading to affecting the pharmacokinetics of the drug. The **temperature**, pH value and dryness of the skin need to be considered. There are some novel topical drugs in the market which can utilise the system as much as possible. This localized system provides topical ther...
128. ...topical steroids marketed for the scalp. Gels are thicker than liquids. Gels are often a semisolid emulsion and sometimes use alcohol as a solvent for the active ingredient; some gels liquefy at body **temperature**. Gel tends to be cellulose cut with alcohol or acetone. Gels tend to be self-drying, tend to have greatly variable ingredients between brands, and carry a significant risk of inducing hypersensitivit...
129. ...the instructions: "Shake well before use". Medication may be placed in a solid form. Examples are deodorant, antiperspirants, astringents, and hemostatic agents. Some solids melt when they reach body **temperature** (e.g. rectal suppositories). Certain contraceptive methods rely on sponge as a carrier of a liquid medicine. Lemon juice embedded in a sponge has been used as a primitive contraception in some cultur...
130. ...ick's first law of diffusion is: where For is described by the Stokes–Einstein equation. The equation is: where Assuming concentration gradient is constant for all newly applied topical drugs and the **temperature** is constant (normal body temperature: 37 °C), the viscosity and radius of the drug determine the flux of diffusion. The higher the viscosity or the larger the radius of the drug is, the lower the dif...
131. ...e For is described by the Stokes–Einstein equation. The equation is: where Assuming concentration gradient is constant for all newly applied topical drugs and the temperature is constant (normal body **temperature**: 37 °C), the viscosity and radius of the drug determine the flux of diffusion. The higher the viscosity or the larger the radius of the drug is, the lower the diffusion flux of the drug is. There are...
132. ...cannabis may be heated in a chamber via indirect flame exposure or an electrical heating element, allowing users to inhale the resulting vapor. The temperatures reached are cooler than the combustion **temperature** of cannabis, which is around 230–315 °C (445–600 °F). Vaporizing is more efficient than smoking, because approximately 30% of THC in cannabis or hashish cigarettes is destroyed by pyrolysis during sm...
133. ...ations of epidural analgesia are rare, but may include headaches, dizziness, difficulty breathing and seizures for the mother. The child may experience a slow heartbeat, decreased ability to regulate **temperature**, and potential exposure to the drugs administered to the mother. There is no overall difference in outcomes based on the time the epidural is administered to the mother, specifically no change in the...
134. ...ust from palo santo. It is sometimes incorrectly called guaiac wood concrete. It is a yellow to greenish yellow semi-solid mass which melts around 40–50 °C. Once melted, it can be cooled back to room **temperature** yet remain liquid for a long time. Oil of guaiac has a soft roselike odour, similar to the odour of hybrid tea roses or violets. Because of this similarity, it has sometimes been used as an adulteran...
135. ...nesene, α-guaiene, guaioxide and β-patchoulene. It is considered non-irritating, non-sensitizing, and non-phototoxic to human skin. Oil of guaiac was also a pre-Renaissance remedy to syphilis. Krafft **temperature** In colloidal chemistry, the Krafft temperature (or Krafft point, after German chemist Friedrich Krafft) is defined as the minimum temperature at which the formation of micelles occurs in a solution o...
136. ...It is considered non-irritating, non-sensitizing, and non-phototoxic to human skin. Oil of guaiac was also a pre-Renaissance remedy to syphilis. Krafft temperature In colloidal chemistry, the Krafft **temperature** (or Krafft point, after German chemist Friedrich Krafft) is defined as the minimum temperature at which the formation of micelles occurs in a solution of dissolved surfactant. It has been found that...
137. ...iac was also a pre-Renaissance remedy to syphilis. Krafft temperature In colloidal chemistry, the Krafft temperature (or Krafft point, after German chemist Friedrich Krafft) is defined as the minimum **temperature** at which the formation of micelles occurs in a solution of dissolved surfactant. It has been found that solubility at the Krafft point is nearly equal to critical micelle concentration (CMC). Below t...
138. ...the formation of micelles occurs in a solution of dissolved surfactant. It has been found that solubility at the Krafft point is nearly equal to critical micelle concentration (CMC). Below the Krafft **temperature**, the maximum solubility of the surfactant will be lower than the critical micelle concentration, meaning micelles will not form. The Krafft temperature is a point of phase change below which the surf...
139. ...l micelle concentration (CMC). Below the Krafft temperature, the maximum solubility of the surfactant will be lower than the critical micelle concentration, meaning micelles will not form. The Krafft **temperature** is a point of phase change below which the surfactant remains in crystalline form, even in an aqueous solution. Visually the effect of going below the Krafft point is similar to that of going above t...
140. ...undergoing flocculation. Surfactants in such a crystalline state will only solubilize and form micelles if another surfactant assists it in overcoming the forces that keep it crystallized, or if the **temperature** increases, thus causing entropy to increase and encouraging the crystalline structure to break apart. Surfactants are usually composed of a hydrocarbon chain and a polar head group. Increasing the le...
141. ...couraging the crystalline structure to break apart. Surfactants are usually composed of a hydrocarbon chain and a polar head group. Increasing the length of the hydrocarbon chain increases the Krafft **temperature** because it improves Van der Waals forces. Moreover, since Krafft point is related to solid-liquid transition, better-packed polar heads within surfactant crystals increase Krafft temperature. Polypha...
142. ...e Krafft temperature because it improves Van der Waals forces. Moreover, since Krafft point is related to solid-liquid transition, better-packed polar heads within surfactant crystals increase Krafft **temperature**. Polypharmacy Polypharmacy (polypragmasia) is an umbrella term to describe the simultaneous use of multiple medicines by a patient for their conditions. The term polypharmacy is often defined as regu...
143. ...s an important parameter in plasma physics, electrolytes, and colloids (DLVO theory). The corresponding Debye screening wave vector formula_2 for particles of density formula_3, charge formula_4 at a **temperature** formula_5 is given by formula_6 in Gaussian units. Expressions in MKS units will be given below. The analogous quantities at very low temperatures (formula_7) are known as the Thomas–Fermi length and...
144. ...quantities at very low temperatures (formula_7) are known as the Thomas–Fermi length and the Thomas–Fermi wave vector. They are of interest in describing the behaviour of electrons in metals at room **temperature**. The Debye length is named after the Dutch-American physicist and chemist Peter Debye (1884–1966), a Nobel laureate in Chemistry. The Debye length arises naturally in the thermodynamic description of...
145. ...ibute in establishing formula_14 but also move in response to the associated Coulomb force, formula_20. If we further assume the system to be in thermodynamic equilibrium with a heat bath at absolute **temperature** formula_5, then the concentrations of discrete charges, formula_11, may be considered to be thermodynamic (ensemble) averages and the associated electric potential to be a thermodynamic mean field. W...
146. ...n distribution yields the Poisson–Boltzmann equation: formula_28 Solutions to this nonlinear equation are known for some simple systems. Solutions for more general systems may be obtained in the high-**temperature** (weak coupling) limit, formula_29, by Taylor expanding the exponential: formula_30 This approximation yields the linearized Poisson–Boltzmann equation formula_31 which also is known as the Debye–Hück...
147. ...hile the background medium may be treated as the vacuum and the Debye length is formula_44 where Even in quasineutral cold plasma, where ion contribution virtually seems to be larger due to lower ion **temperature**, the ion term is actually often dropped, giving formula_45 although this is only valid when the mobility of ions is negligible compared to the process's timescale. A useful form of this equation is...
148. ...natively, formula_54 where formula_39 is the Bjerrum length of the medium in nm, and the factor formula_56 derives from transforming unit volume from cubic dm to cubic nm. For deionized water at room **temperature**, at pH=7, "λ" ≈ 1μm. At room temperature (), one can consider in water the relation: formula_57 where There is a method of estimating an approximate value of the Debye length in liquids using conduct...
149. ...the Bjerrum length of the medium in nm, and the factor formula_56 derives from transforming unit volume from cubic dm to cubic nm. For deionized water at room temperature, at pH=7, "λ" ≈ 1μm. At room **temperature** (), one can consider in water the relation: formula_57 where There is a method of estimating an approximate value of the Debye length in liquids using conductivity, which is described in ISO Standard...
150. ...pends on whether its chiral conformations are persistent isomers that could be isolated as separated enantiomers, at least in principle, or the enantiomeric conformers rapidly interconvert at a given **temperature** and timescale through low-energy conformational changes (rendering the molecule achiral). For example, despite having chiral "gauche" conformers that belong to the "C" point group, butane is consider...
151. ...ugh low-energy conformational changes (rendering the molecule achiral). For example, despite having chiral "gauche" conformers that belong to the "C" point group, butane is considered achiral at room **temperature** because rotation about the central C–C bond rapidly interconverts the enantiomers (3.4 kcal/mol barrier). Similarly, "cis"-1,2-dichlorocyclohexane consists of chair conformers that are nonidentical m...
152. ...er example, amines with three distinct substituents (RRRN:) are also regarded as achiral molecules because their enantiomeric pyramidal conformers rapidly undergo pyramidal inversion. However, if the **temperature** in question is low enough, the process that interconverts the enantiomeric chiral conformations becomes slow compared to a given timescale. The molecule would then be considered to be chiral at that...
153. ...in question is low enough, the process that interconverts the enantiomeric chiral conformations becomes slow compared to a given timescale. The molecule would then be considered to be chiral at that **temperature**. The relevant timescale is, to some degree, arbitrarily defined: 1000 seconds is sometimes employed, as this is regarded as the lower limit for the amount of time required for chemical or chromatogra...
154. ...imes employed, as this is regarded as the lower limit for the amount of time required for chemical or chromatographic separation of enantiomers in a practical sense. Molecules that are chiral at room **temperature** due to restricted rotation about a single bond (barrier to rotation ≥ ca. 23 kcal/mol) are said to exhibit atropisomerism. A chiral compound can contain no improper axis of rotation ("S"), which incl...
155. ...n oscillating flow of electrolyte solution through the sample. Several sensors in the instrument monitor other factors, so the software attached is able to do calculations to find the zeta potential. **Temperature**, pH, conductivity, pressure, and streaming potential are all measured in the instrument for this reason.  Zeta potential can also be calculated using theoretical models, and an experimentally-determi...
156. ...er-scale metals in his classic 1857 paper. In a subsequent paper, the author (Turner) points out that: "It is well known that when thin leaves of gold or silver are mounted upon glass and heated to a **temperature** that is well below a red heat (~500 °C), a remarkable change of properties takes place, whereby the continuity of the metallic film is destroyed. The result is that white light is now freely transmit...
157. ...olled by nucleation. Possible final morphologies created by nucleation can include spherical, cubic, needle-like, worm-like, and more particles. Nucleation can be controlled predominately by time and **temperature** as well as the supersaturation of the liquid phase and the environment of the synthesis overall. Bulk materials (>100 nm in size) are expected to have constant physical properties (such as thermal an...
158. ..., minimum particle deformation, calibration, and calculation model. Like bulk materials, the properties of nanoparticles are materials dependent. For spherical polymer nanoparticles, glass transition **temperature** and crystallinity may affect deformation and change the elastic modulus when compared to the bulk material. However, size-dependent behavior of elastic moduli could not be generalized across polymers...
159. ...unds are mixed or otherwise treated to form an insoluble precipitate of the desired material. The size of the particles of the latter is adjusted by choosing the concentration of the reagents and the **temperature** of the solutions, and through the addition of suitable inert agents that affect the viscosity and diffusion rate of the liquid. With different parameters, the same general process may yield other nan...
160. ...ve substances, for example mineral elements. Clay nanoparticles, when incorporated into polymer matrices, increase reinforcement, leading to stronger plastics, verifiable by a higher glass transition **temperature** and other mechanical property tests. These nanoparticles are hard, and impart their properties to the polymer (plastic). Nanoparticles have also been attached to textile fibers in order to create sma...
161. ...terial pushing outwards to restore its structure against an applied pressure. Three effects work against the network effect, slowing the regeneration of the foam's original structure: The effects are **temperature**-dependent, so the temperature range at which memory foam retains its properties is limited. If it is too cold, it hardens. If it is too hot, it acts like conventional foams, quickly springing back to...
162. ...tore its structure against an applied pressure. Three effects work against the network effect, slowing the regeneration of the foam's original structure: The effects are temperature-dependent, so the **temperature** range at which memory foam retains its properties is limited. If it is too cold, it hardens. If it is too hot, it acts like conventional foams, quickly springing back to its original shape. The under...
163. ...ternal surface area and reduced air flow, increasing the adhesion and pneumatic effects. Thus the foam's properties can be controlled by changing its cell structure and porosity. Its glass transition **temperature** can also be modulated by using additives in the foam's material. Memory foam's mechanical properties can affect the comfort of mattresses produced with it. There is also a trade-off between comfort a...
164. ...g to reduced weathering and better durability and overall appearance. Memory foam was developed in 1966 under a contract by NASA's Ames Research Center to improve the safety of aircraft cushions. The **temperature**-sensitive memory foam was initially referred to as "slow spring back foam"; most called it "temper foam". Created by feeding gas into a polymer matrix, it had an open-cell solid structure that matche...
165. ...rt line and Simmons' Beautyrest line in 2011. Gel-infused memory foam was next developed with what were described as "beads" containing the gel which, as a phase-change material, achieved the desired **temperature** stabilization or cooling effect by changing from a solid to a liquid "state" within the capsule. Changing physical states can significantly alter an element's heat absorption properties. Since the de...
166. ...emoved by the delignification process, which also needs oxygen.  Huge furnaces are needed to melt the raw materials that combine to form glass. Oxygen flares up the furnace's fire to burn at a higher **temperature** needed for the production of glass.  Oxygen is needed for the oxidation of different chemicals to form the desired chemical substances. Waste chemical products are burnt down and destroyed in the inc...
167. ...sification, and grain growth. One of the distinct advantages of using this methodology as opposed to the more traditional processing techniques is that densification is often achieved at a much lower **temperature**. The precursor sol can be either deposited on a substrate to form a film (e.g., by dip-coating or spin coating), cast into a suitable container with the desired shape (e.g., to obtain monolithic cera...
168. ...the desired shape (e.g., to obtain monolithic ceramics, glasses, fibers, membranes, aerogels), or used to synthesize powders (e.g., microspheres, nanospheres). The sol–gel approach is a cheap and low-**temperature** technique that allows the fine control of the product's chemical composition. Even small quantities of dopants, such as organic dyes and rare-earth elements, can be introduced in the sol and end up u...
169. ...dispersed cations. If the liquid in a wet gel is removed under a supercritical condition, a highly porous and extremely low density material called aerogel is obtained. Drying the gel by means of low **temperature** treatments (25–100 °C), it is possible to obtain porous solid matrices called xerogels. In addition, a sol–gel process was developed in the 1950s for the production of radioactive powders of UO and T...
170. ...racteristic makes them an appealing target for the production of edible vaccines, as viral coat proteins stored in grains do not require cold storage the way many vaccines currently do. Maintaining a **temperature** controlled supply chain of vaccines is often difficult when delivering vaccines to developing countries. Most commonly, plant transformation is carried out using "Agrobacterium tumefaciens". The prot...
171. ...tion of the surfactant. After reaching the CMC, the surface tension remains relatively constant or changes with a lower slope. The value of the CMC for a given dispersant in a given medium depends on **temperature**, pressure, and (sometimes strongly) on the presence and concentration of other surface active substances and electrolytes. Micelles only form above critical micelle temperature. For example, the valu...
172. ...iven medium depends on temperature, pressure, and (sometimes strongly) on the presence and concentration of other surface active substances and electrolytes. Micelles only form above critical micelle **temperature**. For example, the value of CMC for sodium dodecyl sulfate in water (without other additives or salts) at 25 °C, atmospheric pressure, is 8x10 mol/L. Upon introducing surfactants (or any surface activ...
173. ...the electrostatic interaction between two elementary charges is comparable in magnitude to the thermal energy scale, formula_1, where formula_2 is the Boltzmann constant and formula_3 is the absolute **temperature** in kelvins. This length scale arises naturally in discussions of electrostatic, electrodynamic and electrokinetic phenomena in electrolytes, polyelectrolytes and colloidal dispersions. In standard un...
174. ...Bjerrum length is given by formula_4 where formula_5 is the elementary charge, formula_6 is the relative dielectric constant of the medium and formula_7 is the vacuum permittivity. For water at room **temperature** formula_8, so that In Gaussian units, formula_9 and the Bjerrum length has the simpler form formula_10 The relative permittivity "ε" of water decreases so strongly with temperature that the product (...
175. ...For water at room temperature formula_8, so that In Gaussian units, formula_9 and the Bjerrum length has the simpler form formula_10 The relative permittivity "ε" of water decreases so strongly with **temperature** that the product ("ε"·"T") decreases. Therefore, in spite of the (1/"T") relation, the Bjerrum length "λ" increases with temperature, as shown in the graph. Contract research organization In the life...
176. ...The relative permittivity "ε" of water decreases so strongly with temperature that the product ("ε"·"T") decreases. Therefore, in spite of the (1/"T") relation, the Bjerrum length "λ" increases with **temperature**, as shown in the graph. Contract research organization In the life sciences, a contract research organization (CRO) is a company that provides support to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medica...
177. ...lar tail is less bent. Nevertheless, without the other substances of the pulmonary surfactant mixture, the DPPC's adsorption kinetics is very slow. This happens primarily because the phase transition **temperature** between gel to liquid crystal of pure DPPC is 41.5 °C, which is higher than the human body's temperature of 37 °C. Phosphatidylcholine molecules form ~85% of the lipid in surfactant and have saturate...
178. ...e DPPC's adsorption kinetics is very slow. This happens primarily because the phase transition temperature between gel to liquid crystal of pure DPPC is 41.5 °C, which is higher than the human body's **temperature** of 37 °C. Phosphatidylcholine molecules form ~85% of the lipid in surfactant and have saturated acyl chains. Phosphatidylglycerol (PG) forms about 11% of the lipids in the surfactant, it has unsatura...
179. ...ells. They undergo much post-translational modification, ending up in the lamellar bodies. These are concentric rings of lipid and protein, about 1 μm in diameter. The SP proteins reduce the critical **temperature** of DPPC's phase transition to a value lower than 37 °C, which improves its adsorption and interface spreading velocity. The compression of the interface causes a phase change of the surfactant molecu...
180. ...otein has distinct functions, which act synergistically to keep an interface rich in DPPC during lung's expansion and contraction. Changes in the surfactant mixture composition alter the pressure and **temperature** conditions for phase changes and the phospholipids' crystal shape as well. Only the liquid phase can freely spread on the surface to form a monolayer. Nevertheless, it has been observed that if a lun...
181. ...ension can be greatly reduced by pulmonary surfactant, this effect will depend on the surfactant's concentration on the interface. The interface concentration has a saturation limit, which depends on **temperature** and mixture composition. Because during ventilation there is a variation of the lung surface area, the surfactant's interface concentration is not usually at the level of saturation. The surface incr...
182. ...p to 82% enrichment in the sublimate shows that enantioenrichment of amino acids could occur in space. Partial sublimation processes can take place on the surface of meteors where large variations in **temperature** exist. This finding may have consequences for the development of the Mars Organic Detector scheduled for launch in 2013 which aims to recover trace amounts of amino acids from the Mars surface exactl...
183. ...od. Another example of syneresis is the collection of whey on the surface of yogurt. Syneresis can also be observed when the amount of diluent in a swollen polymer exceeds the solubility limit as the **temperature** changes. A household example of this is the counterintuitive expulsion of water from dry gelatin when the temperature increases. Syneresis has also been proposed as the mechanism of formation for the...
184. ...en the amount of diluent in a swollen polymer exceeds the solubility limit as the temperature changes. A household example of this is the counterintuitive expulsion of water from dry gelatin when the **temperature** increases. Syneresis has also been proposed as the mechanism of formation for the amorphous silica composing the frustule of diatoms. In the processing of dairy milk, for example during cheese making...
185. ...The high cost of the material generally limits its use to advanced technology, aerospace, and manufacturing. Fine-scale open-cell foams, with cells smaller than can be seen unaided, are used as high-**temperature** filters in the chemical industry. Metal foams are used in compact heat exchangers to increase heat transfer at the cost of reduced pressure. However, their use permits substantial reduction in physic...
186. ...corrosion resistance and enable surface functionalization for catalytic flow processes. To fabricate hybrid metal foams, thin films are deposited onto a foam substrate with electrodeposition at room **temperature**. A two-electrode cell setup in a Watt's bath can be used. Recent studies have demonstrated issues with the uniformity of the thin-film due to the complex geometry of metal foams. Issues with uniformi...
187. ...ceramic powders or alloying elements to form stabilizing particles in the molten metal, or by other means. Molten metal can be foamed in one of three ways: To stabilize the molten metal bubbles, high **temperature** foaming agents (nano- or micrometer- sized solid particles) are required. The size of the pores, or cells, is usually 1 to 8 mm. When foaming or blowing agents are used, they are mixed with the powde...
188. ...with a weight of 3.545 kg was tested in a torch-fire test. In this test, the panel was exposed to over 1204 °C temperatures for 30 minutes. Upon reaching the 30 minutes' time of exposure, the maximum **temperature** on the unexposed surface of the steel was 400 °C (752 °F) at the center of the plate directly above the jet burner. This temperature was well below the required temperature rise limit of 427 °C; ther...
189. ...nutes. Upon reaching the 30 minutes' time of exposure, the maximum temperature on the unexposed surface of the steel was 400 °C (752 °F) at the center of the plate directly above the jet burner. This **temperature** was well below the required temperature rise limit of 427 °C; therefore, this sample met the torch fire test requirements. For reference, a solid piece of equal volume steel used for calibration fail...
190. ...e of exposure, the maximum temperature on the unexposed surface of the steel was 400 °C (752 °F) at the center of the plate directly above the jet burner. This temperature was well below the required **temperature** rise limit of 427 °C; therefore, this sample met the torch fire test requirements. For reference, a solid piece of equal volume steel used for calibration failed this test in about 4 minutes. It is w...
191. ...CMF panel prior to the above-mentioned jet fire testing was subjected to a pool-fire test. In this test, the panel was exposed to 827 °C temperatures for 100 minutes. The panel withstood the extreme **temperature** for 100 minutes with ease, reaching a maximum backface temperature of 379 °C, far below the 427 °C failure temperature. For reference, the test was calibrated using an equal-sized piece of solid stee...
192. ...ted to a pool-fire test. In this test, the panel was exposed to 827 °C temperatures for 100 minutes. The panel withstood the extreme temperature for 100 minutes with ease, reaching a maximum backface **temperature** of 379 °C, far below the 427 °C failure temperature. For reference, the test was calibrated using an equal-sized piece of solid steel that failed the test in approximately 13 minutes. These studies i...
193. ...exposed to 827 °C temperatures for 100 minutes. The panel withstood the extreme temperature for 100 minutes with ease, reaching a maximum backface temperature of 379 °C, far below the 427 °C failure **temperature**. For reference, the test was calibrated using an equal-sized piece of solid steel that failed the test in approximately 13 minutes. These studies indicate the extraordinary performance of CMF against...
194. ...y 13 minutes. These studies indicate the extraordinary performance of CMF against fire and extreme heat. Composite metal foam has a very low rate of heat transfer and has proven to isolate an extreme **temperature** of 1,100 °C (2,000 °F) within only a few inches, leaving the material at room temperature just about two inches away from a region of white-hot material. In addition, the steel CMF managed to retain...
195. ...extreme heat. Composite metal foam has a very low rate of heat transfer and has proven to isolate an extreme temperature of 1,100 °C (2,000 °F) within only a few inches, leaving the material at room **temperature** just about two inches away from a region of white-hot material. In addition, the steel CMF managed to retain most of its steel-like strength at this temperature while remaining as lightweight as alum...
196. ...w inches, leaving the material at room temperature just about two inches away from a region of white-hot material. In addition, the steel CMF managed to retain most of its steel-like strength at this **temperature** while remaining as lightweight as aluminium, a material that would melt instantly at this extreme temperature. Composite metal foam has shown an ability to shield against x-ray and neutron radiation,...
197. ...ial. In addition, the steel CMF managed to retain most of its steel-like strength at this temperature while remaining as lightweight as aluminium, a material that would melt instantly at this extreme **temperature**. Composite metal foam has shown an ability to shield against x-ray and neutron radiation, absorbs/mitigates shocks, sounds, and vibrations, and can withstand over 1,000,000 high load cycles, outperfo...
198. ...ng other hollow parts. Compared to polymer foams in vehicles, metallic foams are stiffer, stronger, more energy absorbent, and resistant to fire and the weather adversities of UV light, humidity, and **temperature** variation. However, they are heavier, more expensive, and non-insulating. Metal foam technology has been applied to automotive exhaust gas. Compared to traditional catalytic converters that use cordi...
199. ...clude the nonionic cocamide DEA and cocamidopropylamine oxide, and the zwitterionic cocamidopropyl betaine and cocamidopropyl hydroxysultaine. There are two main types of blowing agents: gases at the **temperature** that the foam is formed, and gases generated by chemical reaction. Carbon dioxide, pentane, and chlorofluorocarbons are examples of the former. Blowing agents that produce gas via chemical reactions...
200. ...make regular use of more sophisticated models. Cold chain A cold chain is a supply chain that uses refrigeration to maintain perishable goods, such as pharmaceuticals, produce or other goods that are **temperature**-sensitive. Common goods, sometimes called cool cargo, distributed in cold chains include fresh agricultural produce, seafood, frozen food, photographic film, chemicals, and pharmaceutical products. T...
201. ...g, or unbroken, cold chain requires uninterrupted sequence of refrigerated production, storage and distribution activities, along with associated equipment and logistics, which maintain a desired low-**temperature** interval to keep the safety and quality of perishable or sensitive products. Unlike other goods or merchandise, cold chain goods are perishable and always en-route towards end use or destination. Ade...
202. ...COVID-19 pandemic and its associated vaccinations, have caused vastly increased need. Cold chains are common in the food and pharmaceutical industries and also in some chemical shipments. One common **temperature** range for a cold chain in pharmaceutical industries is , but the specific temperature (and time at temperature) tolerances depend on the actual product being shipped. Unique to fresh produce cargoes,...
203. ...Cold chains are common in the food and pharmaceutical industries and also in some chemical shipments. One common temperature range for a cold chain in pharmaceutical industries is , but the specific **temperature** (and time at temperature) tolerances depend on the actual product being shipped. Unique to fresh produce cargoes, the cold chain requires to additionally maintain product specific environment paramet...
204. ...n the food and pharmaceutical industries and also in some chemical shipments. One common temperature range for a cold chain in pharmaceutical industries is , but the specific temperature (and time at **temperature**) tolerances depend on the actual product being shipped. Unique to fresh produce cargoes, the cold chain requires to additionally maintain product specific environment parameters which include air qua...
205. ...a cold chain due to war may produce consequences similar to the smallpox outbreaks in the Philippines during the Spanish–American War, during which the distributed vaccines were inert due to lack of **temperature** control in transport. For vaccines, there are different types of cold chains. There is an ultralow, or deep freeze, cold chain for vaccines that require -70 degrees C, such as the Ebola and Pfizer–Bi...
206. ...t impact the safety, efficacy or quality of the drug substance must be validated, including storage and distribution of the drug substance. A cold chain can be managed by a quality management system. **Temperature** data loggers and RFID tags help monitor the temperature history of the truck, reefer container, warehouse, etc. and the temperature history of the product being shipped. They also can help determine...
207. ...stance must be validated, including storage and distribution of the drug substance. A cold chain can be managed by a quality management system. Temperature data loggers and RFID tags help monitor the **temperature** history of the truck, reefer container, warehouse, etc. and the temperature history of the product being shipped. They also can help determine the remaining shelf life. Also, temperature sensors may...
208. ...stance. A cold chain can be managed by a quality management system. Temperature data loggers and RFID tags help monitor the temperature history of the truck, reefer container, warehouse, etc. and the **temperature** history of the product being shipped. They also can help determine the remaining shelf life. Also, temperature sensors may need to be National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) traceable d...
209. ...monitor the temperature history of the truck, reefer container, warehouse, etc. and the temperature history of the product being shipped. They also can help determine the remaining shelf life. Also, **temperature** sensors may need to be National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) traceable depending on the body monitoring the cold chain. Infusion pump An infusion pump infuses fluids, medication or nu...
210. ...roperties of the surfactant film at the oil/water interface, which involves as parameters, the curvature and the rigidity of the film. These parameters may have an assumed or measured pressure and/or **temperature** dependence (and/or the salinity of the aqueous phase), which may be used to infer the region of stability of the microemulsion, or to delineate the region where three coexisting phases occur, for exa...
211. ...lly, according to the Gibbs' phase rule) of one, two or three phases. These points combine to form regions with boundaries between them, which represent the "phase behavior" of the system at constant **temperature** and pressure. The Gibbs phase diagram, however, is an empirical visual observation of the state of the system and may, or may not express the true number of phases within a given composition. Apparen...
212. ...um with other phases, many systems, especially those with high volume fractions of both the two imiscible phases, can be easily destabilised by anything that changes this equilibrium e.g. high or low **temperature** or addition of surface tension modifying agents. However, examples of relatively stable microemulsions can be found. It is believed that the mechanism for removing acid build up in car engine oils in...
213. ...ating the liquid pore above the critical point to avoid interfacial tension. Freeze drying procedure was first documented around 1996. After the formation of porous silicon, the sample is frozen at a **temperature** of about 200 K and sublimed under vacuum. The technique uses pentane as the drying liquid instead of water. In doing so the capillary stress is reduced because pentane has a lower surface tension tha...
214. ...ons. Thus, several methods were developed to promote the surface stability of porous silicon. An approach that can be taken is through thermal oxidation. The process involves heating the silicon to a **temperature** above 1000 C to promote full oxidation of silicon. The method reportedly produced samples with good stability to aging and electronic surface passivation. Porous silicon exhibits a high degree of bio...
215. ...ants and animals, such as CHO cells and insect cells. Special considerations are required for the specific organisms used in the fermentation, such as the dissolved oxygen level, nutrient levels, and **temperature**. The rate of fermentation depends on the concentration of microorganisms, cells, cellular components, and enzymes as well as temperature, pH and level of oxygen for aerobic fermentation. Product reco...
216. ...tion, such as the dissolved oxygen level, nutrient levels, and temperature. The rate of fermentation depends on the concentration of microorganisms, cells, cellular components, and enzymes as well as **temperature**, pH and level of oxygen for aerobic fermentation. Product recovery frequently involves the concentration of the dilute solution. In most industrial fermentations, the organisms or eukaryotic cells ar...
217. ...d equipment are sterilized. Foam control can be achieved by either mechanical foam destruction or chemical anti-foaming agents. Several other factors must be measured and controlled such as pressure, **temperature**, agitator shaft power, and viscosity. An important element for industrial fermentations is scale up. This is the conversion of a laboratory procedure to an industrial process. It is well established...
218. ...the reaction that can react with the product and lead to decreased yield. The scavenger can be any reagent that will irreversibly react with water such as phthalic anhydride or titanium chloride. The **temperature** required for the reaction varies based upon choice of acid and water scavenger. The yield of this reaction is much higher: at least 55%. The pharmacological effects of the naturally-occurring analog...
219. ...e temperatures prevailing during the reaction, the products can be solid, liquid or gaseous, depending on the components of the mixture. Like conventional thermite, super thermite reacts at very high **temperature** and is difficult to extinguish. The reaction produces dangerous ultra-violet (UV) light, requiring that the reaction not be viewed directly or that special eye protection (for example, a welder's mas...
220. ...ation with low values of WVTR to guarantee the same performances over the lifetime of the device. MVTR generally decreases with increasing thickness of the film/barrier, and increases with increasing **temperature**. There are various techniques to measure MVTR, ranging from gravimetric techniques that measure the gain or loss of moisture by mass, to highly sophisticated instrumental techniques that in some desi...
221. ...r the most appropriate instrument is a zealous task which is in itself part of the measurement. The conditions under which the measurement is made has a considerable influence on the result. Both the **temperature** and humidity gradients across the sample need to be measured, controlled and recorded with the result, and the thickness of the sample should be the same. An MVTR result without specifying these cond...
222. ...e should be the same. An MVTR result without specifying these conditions is almost meaningless. Certainly no two results should be compared unless the conditions are known. For example, the effect of **temperature** on the permeability can be as high as 10% per °C, making it possible that MVTR results achieved at 23°C and 37°C can differ by a factor 4. The most common international unit for the MVTR is g/m/day....
223. ...to suit the required water quality. Most commonly inhibitors will be added to protect the pipework and components against corrosion, or a biocide will be added to stop the growth of bacteria in lower **temperature** systems. The required chemicals will be added to the fluid system by use of a dosing pot; a multi-valved chamber in which the chemical can be added, and then introduced to the fluid system in a contr...
224. ...of the N- and C-termini are indicated. The figure is not drawn to scale. While the MgtA and MgtB proteins are very similar, they do show some minor differences in activity. MgtB is very sensitive to **temperature**, losing all activity (with regard to Mg transport) at a temperature of 20 °C. Additionally, MgtB and MgtA are inhibited by different ranges of cations (Table A10.1). The table lists cation transport...
225. ...cale. While the MgtA and MgtB proteins are very similar, they do show some minor differences in activity. MgtB is very sensitive to temperature, losing all activity (with regard to Mg transport) at a **temperature** of 20 °C. Additionally, MgtB and MgtA are inhibited by different ranges of cations (Table A10.1). The table lists cation transport characteristics of the MgtA and MgtB proteins in "S. typhimurium" as...
226. ..., and key kinetic parameter values for them are listed. As shown, the data has been generated at differing incubation temperatures. km and Ki are not significantly altered by the differing incubation **temperature**. Conversely, Vmax shows a strong positive correlation with temperature, hence the value of Co Vmax for MgtE is not directly comparable with the values for CorA. The earliest research showing that yea...
227. ...ata has been generated at differing incubation temperatures. km and Ki are not significantly altered by the differing incubation temperature. Conversely, Vmax shows a strong positive correlation with **temperature**, hence the value of Co Vmax for MgtE is not directly comparable with the values for CorA. The earliest research showing that yeast takes up Mg appears to be done by Schmidt "et al." (1949). However,...
228. ...ideal solution can also be expressed as a function of the solute’s concentration if liquid and solid phases are in equilibrium. where formula_7 corresponds to the Boltzmann constant, formula_8 to the **temperature** and formula_9 to the solute concentration in a solution in which the solid and the liquid phase are in equilibrium. Combining both expressions the following equation is obtained: Thus, the equilibriu...
229. ...here the droplets in the cloudy microemulsion grow by Ostwald ripening. In geology, it is the textural coarsening, aging or growth of phenocrysts and crystals in solid rock which is below the solidus **temperature**. It is often ascribed as a process in the formation of orthoclase megacrysts, as an alternative to the physical processes governing crystal growth from nucleation and growth rate thermochemical limit...
230. ...ow boiling point and high boiling point solvents were shown to suppress the coffee ring effect, changing the shape of a deposited solute from a ring-like to a dot-like shape. Control of the substrate **temperature** was shown to be an effective way to suppress the coffee ring formed by droplets of water-based solution. On a heated hydrophilic or hydrophobic substrate, a thinner ring with an inner deposit forms,...
231. ...start of the 20th century, scientists had become interested in the stability of colloids, both the dispersions of solid particles and the solutions of polymeric molecules. It was known that salts and **temperature** could often be used to cause flocculation of a colloid. The German chemist F.W. Tiebackx reported in 1911 that flocculation could also be induced in certain polymer solutions by mixing them together....
232. .... Kruyt, entitled “Coacervation. Partial miscibility in colloid systems”. In their paper, they give many more examples of colloid systems that flocculate into an emulsoid state, either by varying the **temperature**, by adding salts, co-solvents or by mixing together two oppositely charged polymer colloids, and illustrate their observations with the first microscope pictures of coacervate droplets. They term thi...
233. ...king analysis (NTA) is a method for visualizing and analyzing particles in liquids that relates the rate of Brownian motion to particle size. The rate of movement is related only to the viscosity and **temperature** of the liquid; it is not influenced by particle density or refractive index. NTA allows the determination of a size distribution profile of small particles with a diameter of approximately in liquid...
234. ...of staphylococci that Fleming observed, the mould had to be growing "before" the bacteria began to grow, because penicillin is only effective on bacteria when they are reproducing. Fortuitously, the **temperature** in the laboratory during that August was optimum first for the growth of the mould, below 20°C, and later in the month for the bacteria, when it reached 25°C. Had Fleming not left the cultures on his...
235. .... Elva Akers, an Oxford woman dying from incurable cancer, agreed to be a test subject for the toxicity of penicillin. On 17 January 1941, he intravenously injected her with 100 mg of penicillin. Her **temperature** briefly rose, but otherwise she had no ill-effects. Florey reckoned that the fever was caused by pyrogens in the penicillin; these were removed with improved chromatography. Fletcher next identified...
236. ...to relieve the pain. On 12 February, Fletcher administered 200 mg of penicillin, following by 100 mg doses every three hours. Within a day of being given penicillin, Alexander started to recover; his **temperature** dropped and discharge from his suppurating wounds declined. By 17 February, his right eye had become normal. However, the researchers did not have enough penicillin to help him to a full recovery. Pe...
237. ...echnical Report # 39,thus establishing the industry standard for cold chain validation. This was critical for the industry due to the sensitivity of drug substances, biologics and vaccines to various **temperature** conditions. The FDA has also been very focused on this final area of distribution and the potential for a drug substances quality to be impacted by extreme temperature exposure. 4.6. Accuracy: Accura...
238. ...ologics and vaccines to various temperature conditions. The FDA has also been very focused on this final area of distribution and the potential for a drug substances quality to be impacted by extreme **temperature** exposure. 4.6. Accuracy: Accuracy of an analytical procedure is the closeness of test results obtained by that procedure to the true value. The accuracy of an analytical procedure shall be establishe...
239. ...mentioned above, the one-dimensionality and chemical flexibility of the semiconductor nanowires make them applicable in nanolasers. Peidong Yang and his co-workers have done some research on the room-**temperature** ultraviolet nanowires used in nanolasers. They have concluded that using short wavelength nanolasers has applications in different fields such as optical computing, information storage, and microanal...
240. ...drug release. Nanodiamonds (NDs) are carbon nanoparticles which can vary from ~4-100 nm in diameter. NDs are typically formed in two ways: from micron-sized diamond particles under high-pressure high-**temperature** conditions, called high-pressure high-temperature nanodiamonds (HPHT NDs) and by shock-wave compression, called detonation nanodiamonds (DNDs). The surfaces of these NDs can be modified by processes...
241. ...rticles which can vary from ~4-100 nm in diameter. NDs are typically formed in two ways: from micron-sized diamond particles under high-pressure high-temperature conditions, called high-pressure high-**temperature** nanodiamonds (HPHT NDs) and by shock-wave compression, called detonation nanodiamonds (DNDs). The surfaces of these NDs can be modified by processes such as oxidation and aminification to alter adsor...
242. ...f these fat globules and results in a wide variety of dairy products. Oxide dispersion-strengthened alloy (ODS) is an example of oxide particle dispersion into a metal medium, which improves the high **temperature** tolerance of the material. Therefore these alloys have several applications in the nuclear energy industry, where materials must withstand extremely high temperatures to maintain operation. The degra...
243. ...ium species contain γ-glutamylpeptides and alliins (S-alk(en)yl cysteine sulfoxides). The content of these sulfur-containing secondary compounds strongly depends on stage of development of the plant, **temperature**, water availability and the level of nitrogen and sulfur nutrition. In onion bulbs their content may account for up to 80% of the organic sulfur fraction. Less is known about the content of secondary...
244. ...s (typically recommended maximum of 4 days) or as directed by a healthcare provider. If the blockage has worsened or not improved, consult a doctor. Another method to break up earwax is by using body **temperature** water. While having the head upright, straighten the ear canal by gently pulling the upper outer ear back and up. Then use a syringe (do not use jet irrigator that is designed for teeth cleaning) to...
245. ...ich makes polystyrene microspheres suitable for medical research and biological laboratory experiments. "Polyethylene microspheres" are commonly used as a permanent or temporary filler. Lower melting **temperature** enables polyethylene microspheres to create porous structures in ceramics and other materials. High sphericity of polyethylene microspheres, as well as availability of colored and fluorescent microsp...
246. ...e class of enzyme and do not inactivate all proteins; they do not function by destroying protein structure but by specifically altering the active site of their target. For example, extremes of pH or **temperature** usually cause denaturation of all protein structure, but this is a non-specific effect. Similarly, some non-specific chemical treatments destroy protein structure: for example, heating in concentrate...
247. ...a material can be displayed graphically by a curve, the so-called moisture sorption isotherm.  For each humidity value, a sorption isotherm indicates the corresponding water content value at a given **temperature**. If the composition or quality of the material changes, then its sorption behaviour also changes. Because of the complexity of sorption process the isotherms cannot be determined explicitly by calcul...
248. ...activity (a) is complex. An increase in a is usually accompanied by an increase in water content, but in a non-linear fashion. This relationship between water activity and moisture content at a given **temperature** is called the moisture sorption isotherm. These curves are determined experimentally and constitute the fingerprint of a food system. BET theory (Brunauer-Emmett-Teller) provides a calculation to des...
249. ...horizontal axis they provide relative humidity or water activity of the air presented to the material. Sorption Isotherms are named as such because the equilibrium established must be for a constant **temperature** and this temperature should be specified. Normally, materials hold less moisture when they are hotter, and more moisture when they are colder. Occasionally, a set of isotherms are provided on one gra...
250. ...provide relative humidity or water activity of the air presented to the material. Sorption Isotherms are named as such because the equilibrium established must be for a constant temperature and this **temperature** should be specified. Normally, materials hold less moisture when they are hotter, and more moisture when they are colder. Occasionally, a set of isotherms are provided on one graph that shows each cu...
251. ...d. Normally, materials hold less moisture when they are hotter, and more moisture when they are colder. Occasionally, a set of isotherms are provided on one graph that shows each curve at a different **temperature**. Such a set of adsorption isotherms is provided in Figure 3 as measured by Dini on a Type V silica gel. Medical science liaison A medical science liaison (MSL) is a healthcare consulting professional...
252. ...the market today can be separated based on an array of specifications that significantly influence the instruments versatility and overall cost. These include speed, a live cell chamber that includes **temperature** and control (some also have humidity control for longer term live cell imaging), a built in pipettor or injector for fast kinetic assays, and additional imaging modes such as confocal, bright field,...
253. ...pharmaceuticals can be a desirable convenience, but sometimes it can lead to problems with uncontrolled distribution. The shipment of drugs through the mail and parcel post is sometimes a concern for **temperature**-sensitive pharmaceuticals. Uncontrolled shipping conditions can include high and low temperatures outside the listed storage conditions for a drug. For example, the US FDA found the temperature in a...
254. ...n for temperature-sensitive pharmaceuticals. Uncontrolled shipping conditions can include high and low temperatures outside the listed storage conditions for a drug. For example, the US FDA found the **temperature** in a mailbox in the sun could reach while the ambient air temperature was . Shipment by express mail and couriers reduces transit time and often involves delivery to the door, rather than a mailbox....
255. ...ditions can include high and low temperatures outside the listed storage conditions for a drug. For example, the US FDA found the temperature in a mailbox in the sun could reach while the ambient air **temperature** was . Shipment by express mail and couriers reduces transit time and often involves delivery to the door, rather than a mailbox. The use of insulated shipping containers also helps control drug tempe...
256. ...orous anodic aluminum oxide (AAO). Such method gives nanofoams with an organized structure and allows to control the surface area and porosity of the fabricated material. A 2016 study discussed a low **temperature**/pressure microwave solvothermal method for fabricating pure copper, silver, and nickel metal nanofoams. The process claims to be non-hazardous, novel, as well as facile, with an emphasis on its low-w...
257. ...nofoam was created by: (i) Pitch and CaCO (in a 1:14 ratio) were dissolved in methylene chloride. 10mL of NaCl was added. Mixture was stirred continuously. (ii) Sample was naturally air dried at room **temperature**. (iii) Sample was carbonized at 600 °C for 2 hours. The heating rate was 2 °C per minute. (iv) Carbonized structure is washed in 1M HCl to remove excess CaCO nanoparticles.  Carbon Nanofoams have bee...
258. ...riety of cases. formula_23 Strictly, low potential means that formula_24; however, the results that the equations yields are valid for a wider range of potentials, from 50–80mV. Nevertheless, at room **temperature**, formula_25 and that is generally the standard. Some boundary conditions that apply in low potential cases are that: at the surface, the potential must be equal to the surface potential and at large...
259. ...ng whether the hydrodynamic radius of the particle increases. If particles aggregate, there will be a larger population of particles with a larger radius. In some DLS machines, stability depending on **temperature** can be analyzed by controlling the temperature "in situ". Absorption (pharmacology) Absorption is the journey of a drug travelling from the site of administration to the site of action. The drug trav...
260. ...cle increases. If particles aggregate, there will be a larger population of particles with a larger radius. In some DLS machines, stability depending on temperature can be analyzed by controlling the **temperature** "in situ". Absorption (pharmacology) Absorption is the journey of a drug travelling from the site of administration to the site of action. The drug travels by some route of administration (oral, topi...
261. ...the gas bubble will dramatically decay in size when encountering the other positive half of the pressure cycle. There are further factors that manipulate the oscillation of the bubbles’ size, such as **temperature** and composition of the gas and liquid phases. Depending on the dramatization of the oscillation from previously mentioned factors, stable or transient cavitation occurs. A rapid process will lead to...
262. ...n when transferring energy to a patient would be the thermal energy generated from heating of the biological tissue due to energy losses from the ultrasound waves. It has been shown that increases in **temperature** can increase skin permeability through several factors. Two factors are increased kinetic energy and diffusivity of drugs, which allow for compounds to pass through the stratum corneum. Moreover, hai...
263. ...ough the stratum corneum. Moreover, hair follicles and sweat glands are dilated, allowing for more points of entry for compounds. The enhanced circulation of blood that comes as a result of increased **temperature** from ultrasound parameters also allows for better diffusion of compounds. While the intensity and duty cycle of the ultrasound are directly proportional to the corresponding thermal effects, surprisi...
264. ...asound are directly proportional to the corresponding thermal effects, surprisingly thermal effects are not a considerable mechanism for HFS in ranges from 1 – 2 degrees Celsius. However, once larger **temperature** changes are observed, such as an excess of 10 degrees Celsius, permeant transport was increased. When it comes to LFS, thermal effects are an important consideration on the side of safety. Thermal ef...
265. ...n, but are now considered an important co-product. The produced herbal waters are essentially diluted essential oils at less than 1% concentration (typically 0.02% to 0.05%). Several factors, such as **temperature** and a herb's growth cycle, impact the characteristics of a distillate, and therefore influence the timing of the distillation. Rosemary, for example, should be distilled in the peak of summer before...
266. ...ues based on solubility of a compound in either water or oil, distillation will separate components regardless of their solubility. The distillate will contain compounds that vaporize at or below the **temperature** of distillation. The actual chemical components of these orange herbal distillates have not yet been fully identified, but plant distillates will usually contain essential oil compounds as well as or...
267. ...n-cell polymer foams internally with ceramic slurry and then firing in a kiln, leaving only ceramic material. The foams may consist of several ceramic materials such as aluminium oxide, a common high-**temperature** ceramic, and gets insulating properties from the many tiny air-filled voids within the material. The foam can be used not only for thermal insulation, but for a variety of other applications such as...
268. ...r another gas trapped in pores throughout the body of the material. With its ability to create a large specific surface area, these materials can be fabricated as high as 94 to 96% air by volume with **temperature** resistances as high as 1700 °C. Because many ceramics are already oxides or other inert compounds, there is little danger of oxidation or reduction of the material. Previously, pores had been avoided...
269. ...ustry, creating the ceramic foam with a 3D mesh skeleton structure and coat a ceramic slurry on a polyurethane organic foam mesh body. The ceramic foam is obtained by allowing the body to dry at room **temperature** and burn the mesh body to retrieve the ceramic foam. This method is best used to prepare silicon carbide foam ceramics. The foaming method uses a chemical reaction of a foaming agent. The foaming age...
270. ...te in the pores of the foam and transform the energy into heat through friction and air resistance, thus reducing echos in the environment. Due to the three-dimensional connected mesh structure, high **temperature** resistance, and thermal stability of ceramic foam, its use in catalytic converters in exhaust systems help remove oxides and other particulate matter from exhaust gasses. Current research sees cerami...
271. ...the hormone glucagon. DiMarchi's glucagon analog possesses similar biological properties to natural glucagon. It dissolves easily and maintains its structural integrity over extended periods at room **temperature**. DiMarchi left Eli Lilly in 2003 after working for 22 years, and has since founded six biotech companies based on the research he began there. He co-founded Ambrx along with Peter G. Schultz, that mo...
272. ...glycerol may be used instead of water. Decoction can be used to make tisanes, tinctures and similar solutions. Decoctions and infusions may produce liquids with differing chemical properties, as the **temperature** or preparation difference may result in more oil-soluble chemicals in decoctions versus infusions. The process can also be applied to meats and vegetables to prepare bouillon or stock, though the ter...
273. ...In brewing, decoction mashing is the traditional method where a portion of the mash is removed to a separate vessel, boiled for a time and then returned to the main mash, raising the mash to the next **temperature** step. In herbalism, decoctions are usually made to extract fluids from hard plant materials such as roots and bark. To achieve this, the plant material is usually boiled for 1–2 hours in 1-5 liters o...
274. ...d in the preparation. In dealing with protein pre-formulation, the important aspect is to understand the solution behavior of a given protein under a variety of stress conditions such as freeze/thaw, **temperature**, shear stress among others to identify mechanisms of degradation and therefore its mitigation. Formulation studies then consider such factors as particle size, polymorphism, pH, and solubility, as al...
275. ...ug proves unstable, it will invalidate the results from clinical trials since it would be impossible to know what the administered dose actually was. Stability studies are carried out to test whether **temperature**, humidity, oxidation, or photolysis (ultraviolet light or visible light) have any effect, and the preparation is analysed to see if any degradation products have been formed. Formulated drugs are sto...
276. ...re electricity is unpredictable or nonexistent. NGOs like the Gates Foundation are actively working to find solutions. These may include lyophilized formulations which are easier to stabilize at room **temperature**. Most protein formulations are parenteral due to the fragile nature of the molecule which would be destroyed by enteric administration. Proteins have tertiary and quaternary structures that can be de...
277. ...nteral due to the fragile nature of the molecule which would be destroyed by enteric administration. Proteins have tertiary and quaternary structures that can be degraded or cause aggregation at room **temperature**. This can impact the safety and efficacy of the medicine. Liquid drugs are stored in vials, IV bags, ampoules, cartridges, and prefilled syringes. As with solid formulations, liquid formulations comb...
278. ...matrices, lipid matrices, hydrophilic matrices, biodegradable matrices, and mineral matrices. Examples of stimuli that may be used to bring about release include pH, enzymes, light, magnetic fields, **temperature**, ultrasonics, osmosis, cellular traction forces, and electronic control of MEMS and NEMS. Spherical hydrogels, in micro-size (50-600 μm diameter) with 3-dimensional cross-linked polymer, can be used...
279. ...arge amount of oppositely charged amphiphilic drugs can be loaded inside these microgels. Then, the release of these drugs can be controlled by a specific triggering factor like pH, ionic strength or **temperature**. Some time release formulations do not work properly if split, such as controlled-release tablet coatings, while other formulations such as micro-encapsulation still work if the microcapsules inside...
280. ...to lactose intolerant people, and some doctors advise patients not to use lactose containing DPIs to minimize the risk of hypersensitivity reactions. DPI medication must be stored in a dry place in a **temperature** of not more than 25 °C (77 °F) and humidity between 40 and 50% in a sealed packaging, since exposure of the powder to moisture degrades the ability of the device to disperse its medication as a fine...
281. ...of rings. The ratio of the distances of these rings from the central point indicates which phase(s) are present. The structural phase of the aggregation is influenced by the ratio of lipids present, **temperature**, hydration, pressure and ionic strength (and type). In lipid polymorphism, if the packing ratio of lipids is greater or less than one, lipid membranes can form two separate hexagonal phases, or nonla...
282. ...e of calcium is also capable of forming this phase. There are several techniques used to map out which phase is present during perturbations done on the lipid. These perturbations include pH changes, **temperature** changes, pressure changes, volume changes, etc. The most common technique used to study phospholipid phase presence is phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance (31P NMR). In this technique, different an...
283. ...ery long duration or if, the drug is not stored properly. Depending upon the condition under which the drug is growing or cultivated, i.e., availability of proper irrigation, fertilizers or even high **temperature**, may influence the size may be available and the crude drugs if grown in adverse conditions may be of small size. Color of the flowers as in case "Catharanthus roseus" and "Catharanthus alba," presen...
284. ...mis, which is approximately one millimeter thick, 100 times the thickness of the stratum corneum. The dermis contains small vessels that distribute drugs into the systemic circulation and to regulate **temperature**, a system known as the skin's microcirculation. There are two main pathways by which drugs can cross the skin and reach the systemic circulation. The more direct route is known as the transcellular p...
285. ...solution phase batch process and an on-column fed-batch process. The simple and commonly adopted batch process involves the mixing of reagents together in a suitable buffer solution, preferably at a **temperature** between 4 and 6 °C, followed by the separation and purification of the desired product using a suitable technique based on its physicochemical properties, including size exclusion chromatography (SEC...
286. ...no known toxicologic consequences. Furthermore, alteration in the chain length may lead to unexpected clearance times "in vivo". Moreover, the experimental conditions of PEGylation reaction (i.e. pH, **temperature**, reaction time, overall cost of the process and molar ratio between PEG derivative and peptide) also have an impact on the stability of the final PEGylated products. To overcome the above-mentioned l...
287. ...id medium... some particles may (partially or fully) dissolve in the medium altering the size distribution, requiring careful selection of the dispersion media. Density is highly dependent upon fluid **temperature** remaining constant. X-Rays will not count carbon (organic) particles. Many of these instruments can require a bulk sample (e.g. two to five grams). These depend upon analysis of the "halo" of diffrac...
288. ...the real attenuation spectra. Cascade impactors – particulate matter is withdrawn isokinetically from a source and segregated by size in a cascade impactor at the sampling point exhaust conditions of **temperature**, pressure, etc. Cascade impactors use the principle of inertial separation to size segregate particle samples from a particle laden gas stream. The mass of each size fraction is determined gravimetri...
289. ...ion medium through sonication or other means is important since the presence of dissolved gases may affect results. The drug is placed within the medium in the vessels after it has reached sufficient **temperature** and then the dissolution apparatus is operated. Sample solutions collected from dissolution testing are commonly analyzed by HPLC or Ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy. There are criteria known as 'rel...
290. ...tors through a negative feed back mechanism, eventually decreasing serotonin out put. However, the study points out that other studies have shown that drugs combined with EMT cause a lowering of body **temperature** that in fact results in a decrease in serotonin turnover. This means that body temperature effects cannot be ruled out. Not much is understood about how benzoctamine produces its anti-anxiety effects...
291. ...er, the study points out that other studies have shown that drugs combined with EMT cause a lowering of body temperature that in fact results in a decrease in serotonin turnover. This means that body **temperature** effects cannot be ruled out. Not much is understood about how benzoctamine produces its anti-anxiety effects, but rat studies have shown that the possible mechanism of action is by way of increased t...
292. ...estern states of the Ninth Circuit, and is considered likely to hold influence on other circuit courts. Insulated shipping container Insulated shipping containers are a type of packaging used to ship **temperature** sensitive products such as foods, pharmaceuticals, organs, blood, biologic materials, vaccines and chemicals. They are used as part of a cold chain to help maintain product freshness and efficacy. Th...
293. ...temperatures, with the use of liquid nitrogen. Some carriers have these as a specialized service Insulated shipping containers are part of a comprehensive cold chain which controls and documents the **temperature** of a product through its entire distribution cycle. The containers may be used with a refrigerant or coolant such as: A digital Temperature data logger or a time temperature indicator is often enclos...
294. ...a comprehensive cold chain which controls and documents the temperature of a product through its entire distribution cycle. The containers may be used with a refrigerant or coolant such as: A digital **Temperature** data logger or a time temperature indicator is often enclosed to monitor the temperature inside the container for its entire shipment. Labels and appropriate documentation (internal and external) are...
295. ...ontrols and documents the temperature of a product through its entire distribution cycle. The containers may be used with a refrigerant or coolant such as: A digital Temperature data logger or a time **temperature** indicator is often enclosed to monitor the temperature inside the container for its entire shipment. Labels and appropriate documentation (internal and external) are usually required. Personnel throu...
296. ...ugh its entire distribution cycle. The containers may be used with a refrigerant or coolant such as: A digital Temperature data logger or a time temperature indicator is often enclosed to monitor the **temperature** inside the container for its entire shipment. Labels and appropriate documentation (internal and external) are usually required. Personnel throughout the cold chain need to be aware of the special ha...
297. ...mal conductivity or R-value, and its thickness. These two attributes will help determine the resistance to heat transfer from the ambient environment into the payload space. The coolant material load **temperature**, quantity, latent heat, and sensible heat will help determine the amount of heat the parcel can absorb while maintaining the desired control temperature. Combining the attributes from the insulator a...
298. ...o the payload space. The coolant material load temperature, quantity, latent heat, and sensible heat will help determine the amount of heat the parcel can absorb while maintaining the desired control **temperature**. Combining the attributes from the insulator and coolant will allow analysis of expected duration of the insulated shipping container system. Testing of multi-component systems is needed. It is wise...
299. ...Laboratory package testing might include ASTM D3103-07, Standard Test Method for Thermal Insulation Performance of Packages, ISTA Guide 5B: Focused Simulation Guide for Thermal Performance Testing of **Temperature** Controlled Transport Packaging, and others. In addition, validation of field performance (performance qualification) is extremely useful. Specialists in design and testing of packaging for temperatur...
300. ...emperature Controlled Transport Packaging, and others. In addition, validation of field performance (performance qualification) is extremely useful. Specialists in design and testing of packaging for **temperature** sensitive products are often needed. These may be consultants, independent laboratories, universities, or reputable vendors. Many laboratories have certifications and accreditations: ISO 9000s, ISO/I...
301. ...particle diameter is obtained by assuming that the particle is spherical. This is called the hydrodynamic diameter, formula_36 . where formula_38 is Boltzmann coefficient, formula_39 is the absolute **temperature**, and formula_40 the dynamic viscosity of the surrounding fluid. Figure 4 shows two examples of heterodyne autocorrelation functions of scattered light from sodium polystyrene sulfate solution (NaPSS;...
302. ...her material properties (e.g. density, shear viscosity, and thermal conductivity) the value of volume viscosity is specific to each fluid and depends additionally on the fluid state, particularly its **temperature** and pressure. Physically, volume viscosity represents the irreversible resistance, over and above the reversible resistance caused by isentropic bulk modulus, to a compression or expansion of a fluid...
303. ...thermodynamic equilibrium, the negative-one-third of the trace of the Cauchy stress tensor is often identified with the thermodynamic pressure, which depends only on equilibrium state variables like **temperature** and density (equation of state). In general, the trace of the stress tensor is the sum of thermodynamic pressure contribution and another contribution which is proportional to the divergence of the v...
304. ...hear nor volume viscosity are equilibrium parameters or properties, but transport properties. The velocity gradient and/or compression rate are therefore independent variables together with pressure, **temperature**, and other state variables. According to Landau,  He later adds:  After an example, he concludes (with formula_4 used to represent volume viscosity):  A brief review of the techniques available for m...
305. ...n the context of latex particles being pulled towards, and coating, a dissolving steel surface. Diffusiophoresis is an analogous phenomenon to thermophoresis, where a species A moves in response to a **temperature** gradient. Both diffusiophoresis and thermophoresis are governed by Onsager reciprocal relations. Simply speaking, a gradient in any thermodynamic quantity, such as the concentration of any species, o...
306. ...radient. Both diffusiophoresis and thermophoresis are governed by Onsager reciprocal relations. Simply speaking, a gradient in any thermodynamic quantity, such as the concentration of any species, or **temperature**, will drive motion of all thermodynamic quantities, i.e., motion of all species present, and a temperature flux. Each gradient provides a thermodynamic force that moves the species present, and the O...
307. ...king, a gradient in any thermodynamic quantity, such as the concentration of any species, or temperature, will drive motion of all thermodynamic quantities, i.e., motion of all species present, and a **temperature** flux. Each gradient provides a thermodynamic force that moves the species present, and the Onsager reciprocal relations govern the relationship between the forces and the motions. Diffusiophoresis is...
308. ...ideal and interacts with a surface in the x–y plane at formula_5 via a potential formula_6, the coefficient formula_3 is given by where formula_9 is the Boltzmann constant, formula_10 is the absolute **temperature**, and formula_11 is the viscosity in the interfacial region, assumed to be constant in the interface. This expression assumes that the fluid velocity for fluid in contact with the surface is forced to...
309. ...magnetism and other more complex magnetic phenomena. This class expands the materials properties typically associated with magnets to include low density, transparency, electrical insulation, and low-**temperature** fabrication, as well as combine magnetic ordering with other properties such as photoresponsiveness. Essentially all of the common magnetic phenomena associated with conventional transition-metal mag...
310. ...c phenomena associated with conventional transition-metal magnets and rare-earth magnets can be found in molecule-based magnets. Prior to 2011, MBMs were seen to exhibit "magnetic ordering with Curie **temperature** (T) exceeding room temperature". The first synthesis and characterization of MBMs was accomplished by Wickman and co-workers in 1967. This was a diethyldithiocarbamate-Fe(III) chloride compound. In F...
311. ...ventional transition-metal magnets and rare-earth magnets can be found in molecule-based magnets. Prior to 2011, MBMs were seen to exhibit "magnetic ordering with Curie temperature (T) exceeding room **temperature**". The first synthesis and characterization of MBMs was accomplished by Wickman and co-workers in 1967. This was a diethyldithiocarbamate-Fe(III) chloride compound. In February 1992, Gatteschi and Ses...
312. ...TCNE organic-based magnetic semiconductor. The June 2011 issue of "Chemical Society Reviews" was devoted to MBMs. In the editorial, written by Miller and Gatteschi, are mentioned TCNE and above-room-**temperature** magnetic ordering along with many other unusual properties of MBMs. The mechanism by which molecule-based magnets stabilize and display a net magnetic moment is different than that present in traditi...
313. ...y diamagnetic, and contribute nothing to the net magnetic moment. In 2015 oxo-dimeric Fe(salen)-based magnets ("anticancer nanomagnets") in a water suspension were shown to demonstrate intrinsic room **temperature** ferromagnetic behavior, as well as antitumor activity, with possible medical applications in chemotherapy, magnetic drug delivery, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and magnetic field-induced local h...
314. ...Like conventional magnets, they may be classified as hard or soft, depending on the magnitude of the coercive field. Another distinguishing feature is that molecule-based magnets are prepared via low-**temperature** solution-based techniques, versus high-temperature metallurgical processing or electroplating (in the case of magnetic thin films). This enables a chemical tailoring of the molecular building blocks...
315. ...s hard or soft, depending on the magnitude of the coercive field. Another distinguishing feature is that molecule-based magnets are prepared via low-temperature solution-based techniques, versus high-**temperature** metallurgical processing or electroplating (in the case of magnetic thin films). This enables a chemical tailoring of the molecular building blocks to tune the magnetic properties. Specific materials...
316. .... Molecule-based magnets derive their net moment from the cooperative effect of the spin-bearing molecular entities, and can display bulk ferromagnetic and ferrimagnetic behavior with a true critical **temperature**. In this regard, they are contrasted with single-molecule magnets, which are essentially superparamagnets (displaying a blocking temperature versus a true critical temperature). This critical tempera...
317. ...romagnetic and ferrimagnetic behavior with a true critical temperature. In this regard, they are contrasted with single-molecule magnets, which are essentially superparamagnets (displaying a blocking **temperature** versus a true critical temperature). This critical temperature represents the point at which the materials switches from a simple paramagnet to a bulk magnet, and can be detected by ac susceptibility...
318. ...or with a true critical temperature. In this regard, they are contrasted with single-molecule magnets, which are essentially superparamagnets (displaying a blocking temperature versus a true critical **temperature**). This critical temperature represents the point at which the materials switches from a simple paramagnet to a bulk magnet, and can be detected by ac susceptibility and specific heat measurements. Ph...
319. ...erature. In this regard, they are contrasted with single-molecule magnets, which are essentially superparamagnets (displaying a blocking temperature versus a true critical temperature). This critical **temperature** represents the point at which the materials switches from a simple paramagnet to a bulk magnet, and can be detected by ac susceptibility and specific heat measurements. Physiological agonism and anta...
320. ...ntroduced into the clinic by American surgeons from New Orleans in the mid-1950s. The main purpose of the isolated limb perfusion technique is to deliver a very high dose of chemotherapy, at elevated **temperature**, to tumour sites without causing overwhelming systemic damage. (Unfortunately, while these approaches can be useful against solitary or limited metastases, they are - by definition - not systemic and...
321. ...porarily stopped with a tourniquet, and anticancer drugs are put directly into the blood of the limb. This allows the person to receive a high dose of drugs in the area where the cancer occurred. The **temperature** is also increased to 42C causing an increased uptake of the drug by the tumor. The combination of high drug dose and high temperature is toxic systemically, thus the isolation of the limb. Blood flow...
322. ...e a high dose of drugs in the area where the cancer occurred. The temperature is also increased to 42C causing an increased uptake of the drug by the tumor. The combination of high drug dose and high **temperature** is toxic systemically, thus the isolation of the limb. Blood flow through the limb is typically achieved using an extracorporeal circuit consisting of cannulae, tubing, peristaltic roller pump, heat...
323. ...le to successfully deliver the drug at the desired tumor location, the magnetic vehicles are responsive to a specific tumor signal, which is commonly a temp- or pH-sensitive release due to the higher **temperature** and lower pH observed in tumor microenvironments, relative to the rest of the body. Different requirements exist for magnetic nanoparticles involved in site-specific targeting, which are dependent on...
324. ...ion. From this can a tube extends which is inserted in the rectum of the patient to whom the proctoclysis is administered. It was necessary to keep the solution hot in order that it would have a body **temperature** after dropping through the tube and entering the body. ... It was not unusual for the vessel holding the water to be fastened to the standard by gauze, string, or other bandage, although a part of th...
325. ...esign, e.g., predicting biological activity of novel human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Other software tools which help to model pharmacophores include: Mean kinetic **temperature** Mean kinetic temperature (MKT) is a simplified way of expressing the overall effect of temperature fluctuations during storage or transit of perishable goods. The MKT is used to predict the overall e...
326. ...iological activity of novel human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Other software tools which help to model pharmacophores include: Mean kinetic temperature Mean kinetic **temperature** (MKT) is a simplified way of expressing the overall effect of temperature fluctuations during storage or transit of perishable goods. The MKT is used to predict the overall effect of temperature fluc...
327. ...nscriptase inhibitors. Other software tools which help to model pharmacophores include: Mean kinetic temperature Mean kinetic temperature (MKT) is a simplified way of expressing the overall effect of **temperature** fluctuations during storage or transit of perishable goods. The MKT is used to predict the overall effect of temperature fluctuations on perishable goods. It has more recently been applied to the pha...
328. ...etic temperature (MKT) is a simplified way of expressing the overall effect of temperature fluctuations during storage or transit of perishable goods. The MKT is used to predict the overall effect of **temperature** fluctuations on perishable goods. It has more recently been applied to the pharmaceutical industry. The mean kinetic temperature can be expressed as: Where: Pharmacoepidemiology Pharmacoepidemiology...
329. ...of perishable goods. The MKT is used to predict the overall effect of temperature fluctuations on perishable goods. It has more recently been applied to the pharmaceutical industry. The mean kinetic **temperature** can be expressed as: Where: Pharmacoepidemiology Pharmacoepidemiology is the study of the uses and effects of drugs in well-defined populations. To accomplish this study, pharmacoepidemiology borrows...
330. ...ngredient of the OS formulation. It helps to improve the flexibility and reduces the brittleness of the strip. Plasticizer significantly improves the strip properties by reducing the glass transition **temperature** of the polymer. Glycerol, Propylene glycol, low molecular weight polyethylene glycols, phthalate derivatives like dimethyl, diethyl and dibutyl phthalate, Citrate derivatives such as tributyl, trieth...
331. ...pumping system with a nozzle and a cylinder or an air injection system into a cylinder. The cylinder is fitted with a scale to measure the foam height. This equipment may have a heater to control the **temperature**. Entrained air can be tested with similar equipment that has a density meter that can record changes of the liquid density over time. Drainage can be tested with a filter system for measuring the tim...
332. ...s. Across various full-scale trials and field applications, this technique provides a simplistic and low operational cost alternative for complex PFAS-impacted waters. In 2007, it was found that high-**temperature** incineration of sewage sludge reduced the levels of perfluorinated compounds significantly. A 2022 study published in the "Journal of Environmental Engineering" found that a heat- and pressure-based...
333. ...l water oxidation" destroyed 99% of the PFAS present in a water sample. During this process, oxidizing substances are added to PFAS-contaminated water and then the liquid is heated above its critical **temperature** of 374 degrees Celsius at a pressure of more than 220 bars. The water becomes supercritical, and, in this state, water-repellent substances such as PFASs dissolve much more readily. A possible soluti...
334. ...on was able to produce homogeneous low-density polyethylene (LDPE)/LNR blends and nylon 6/LNR blends. Results of differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) thermogram indicated a single glass transition **temperature** (Tg) showed that the blends were compatible and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) micrograph showed no phase separation between blend components. In addition, exfoliated HDPE/LNR/montmorillonite nan...
335. ...ing to the development of several methods to control the self-assembly of the colloidal particles. Examples include colloidal epitaxy and space-based reduced-gravity techniques, as well as the use of **temperature** gradients to define a density gradient. This is somewhat counterintuitive as temperature does not play a role in determining the hard-sphere phase diagram. However, hard-sphere single crystals (size...
336. ...articles. Examples include colloidal epitaxy and space-based reduced-gravity techniques, as well as the use of temperature gradients to define a density gradient. This is somewhat counterintuitive as **temperature** does not play a role in determining the hard-sphere phase diagram. However, hard-sphere single crystals (size 3 mm) have been obtained from a sample in a concentration regime that would remain in the...
337. ...ng the hard-sphere phase diagram. However, hard-sphere single crystals (size 3 mm) have been obtained from a sample in a concentration regime that would remain in the liquid state in the absence of a **temperature** gradient. Using a single colloidal crystal, phonon dispersion of the normal modes of vibration modes were investigated using photon correlation spectroscopy, or dynamic light scattering. This techniq...
338. ...or treating the common cold. There have been reports of children being badly burned by accidentally spilling the water used for steam inhalation. Evidence does not support a relationship between cold **temperature** exposure or a "chill" (feeling of coldness) and the common cold. Expert Opinion on Therapeutic Patents Expert Opinion on Therapeutic Patents is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering pharma...

=== GROWTH (375 occurrences) ===
1. ...revent this bacteria from regrowing, future treatments could provide a viable long-term solution. A clinical trial and laboratory studies have shown that alcohol-containing mouthwash could reduce the **growth** of "Neisseria gonorrhoeae" in the pharynx. However, subsequent trials have found that there was no difference in gonorrhoea cases among men using daily mouthwash compared to those who did not use mou...
2. ...uman population, there is constant pressure to intensify productivity in many agricultural sectors, including the production of meat as a source of protein. Antibiotics are fed to livestock to act as **growth** supplements, and a preventive measure to decrease the likelihood of infections. Farmers typically use antibiotics in animal feed to improve growth rates and prevent infections. However, this is illog...
3. ...protein. Antibiotics are fed to livestock to act as growth supplements, and a preventive measure to decrease the likelihood of infections. Farmers typically use antibiotics in animal feed to improve **growth** rates and prevent infections. However, this is illogical as antibiotics are used to treat infections and not prevent infections. 80% of antibiotic use in the U.S. is for agricultural purposes and abo...
4. ...t 70% of these are medically important. Overusing antibiotics gives the bacteria time to adapt leaving higher doses or even stronger antibiotics needed to combat the infection. Though antibiotics for **growth** promotion were banned throughout the EU in 2006, 40 countries worldwide still use antibiotics to promote growth. This can result in the transfer of resistant bacterial strains into the food that huma...
5. ...ses or even stronger antibiotics needed to combat the infection. Though antibiotics for growth promotion were banned throughout the EU in 2006, 40 countries worldwide still use antibiotics to promote **growth**. This can result in the transfer of resistant bacterial strains into the food that humans eat, causing potentially fatal transfer of disease. While the practice of using antibiotics as growth promote...
6. ...promote growth. This can result in the transfer of resistant bacterial strains into the food that humans eat, causing potentially fatal transfer of disease. While the practice of using antibiotics as **growth** promoters does result in better yields and meat products, it is a major issue and needs to be decreased in order to prevent antimicrobial resistance. Though the evidence linking antimicrobial usage i...
7. ...strongly recommended the reduction of use of medically important antimicrobials in livestock. Additionally, the Advisory Group stated that such antimicrobials should be expressly prohibited for both **growth** promotion and disease prevention in food producing animals. By mapping antimicrobial consumption in livestock globally, it was predicted that in 228 countries there would be a total 67% increase in c...
8. ...in the food chain pipeline may have far-reaching implications for human health. In 1997, European Union health ministers voted to ban avoparcin and four additional antibiotics used to promote animal **growth** in 1999. In 2006 a ban on the use of antibiotics in European feed, with the exception of two antibiotics in poultry feeds, became effective. In Scandinavia, there is evidence that the ban has led to...
9. ...ny. However, chromosomal mutations also confer a cost of fitness. For example, a ribosomal mutation may protect a bacterial cell by changing the binding site of an antibiotic but may result in slower **growth** rate. Moreover, some adaptive mutations can propagate not only through inheritance but also through horizontal gene transfer. The most common mechanism of horizontal gene transfer is the transferring...
10. ...lp better predict phenotypic AMR from organism genotype. Optical techniques such as phase contrast microscopy in combination with single-cell analysis are another powerful method to monitor bacterial **growth**. In 2017, scientists from Uppsala University in Sweden published a method that applies principles of microfluidics and cell tracking, to monitor bacterial response to antibiotics in less than 30 minu...
11. ...one infection treatment may help decrease the use of antibiotics and thus antimicrobial resistance. The bone regeneration material bioactive glass S53P4 has shown to effectively inhibit the bacterial **growth** of up to 50 clinically relevant bacteria including MRSA and MRSE. During the last decades, copper and silver nanomaterials have demonstrated appealing features for the development of a new family of...
12. ...ate sector documents, and NATO documents, among other items. In 2007, Rumsfeld established The Rumsfeld Foundation, which focuses on encouraging public service in the United States and supporting the **growth** of free political and free economic systems abroad. The educational foundation provides fellowships to talented individuals from the private sector who want to serve for some time in government. Rums...
13. ...le myeloma; the trials were inconclusive. Little further work was done with thalidomide in cancer until the 1990s. Judah Folkman pioneered studies into the role of angiogenesis (the proliferation and **growth** of blood vessels) in the development of cancer, and in the early 1970s had shown that solid tumors could not expand without it. In 1993 he surprised the scientific world by hypothesizing the same was...
14. ...as well. Meanwhile, a member of his lab, Robert D'Amato, who was looking for angiogenesis inhibitors, discovered in 1994 that thalidomide inhibited angiogenesis and was effective in suppressing tumor **growth** in rabbits. Around that time, the wife of a man who was dying of multiple myeloma and whom standard treatments had failed, called Folkman asking him about his anti-angiogenesis ideas. Folkman persuad...
15. ...e increases intraocular pressure in those with glaucoma but does not appear to affect normal individuals. It may protect people from liver cirrhosis. There is no evidence that coffee stunts a child's **growth**. Caffeine may increase the effectiveness of some medications including ones used to treat headaches. Caffeine may lessen the severity of acute mountain sickness if taken a few hours prior to attainin...
16. ...micronutrients. Consumed in relatively large amounts (grams or ounces), macronutrients (carbohydrates, fats, proteins, water) are primarily used to generate energy or to incorporate into tissues for **growth** and repair. Micronutrients are needed in smaller amounts (milligrams or micrograms); they have subtle biochemical and physiological roles in cellular processes, like vascular functions or nerve condu...
17. ...in cellular processes, like vascular functions or nerve conduction. Inadequate amounts of essential nutrients or diseases that interfere with absorption, result in a deficiency state that compromises **growth**, survival and reproduction. Consumer advisories for dietary nutrient intakes such as the United States Dietary Reference Intake, are based on the amount required to prevent deficiency and provide mac...
18. ...molecules that can normally be synthesized by an organism, but under certain conditions in insufficient quantities. In humans, such conditions include premature birth, limited nutrient intake, rapid **growth**, and certain disease states. Inositol, taurine, arginine, glutamine and nucleotides are classified as conditionally essential and are particularly important in neonatal diet and metabolism. Non-essen...
19. ...t of any member of the genus "Panax". Ginseng's active ingredients are ginsenosides and saponin glycosides. There are three different ways of processing ginseng. Fresh ginseng is cut at four years of **growth**, white ginseng is cut at four to six years of growth, and red ginseng is cut, dried, and steamed at six years of growth. Red ginseng has been reported to be the most effective aphrodisiac of the thre...
20. ...e ingredients are ginsenosides and saponin glycosides. There are three different ways of processing ginseng. Fresh ginseng is cut at four years of growth, white ginseng is cut at four to six years of **growth**, and red ginseng is cut, dried, and steamed at six years of growth. Red ginseng has been reported to be the most effective aphrodisiac of the three. Known adverse effects include mild gastrointestina...
21. ...ree different ways of processing ginseng. Fresh ginseng is cut at four years of growth, white ginseng is cut at four to six years of growth, and red ginseng is cut, dried, and steamed at six years of **growth**. Red ginseng has been reported to be the most effective aphrodisiac of the three. Known adverse effects include mild gastrointestinal upsets. Maca is a Peruvian plant sometimes called "Peruvian ginse...
22. ...of cardiovascular diseases. Solid evidence is hard to obtain, as these substances come from many different environments cross-culturally and therefore give variable results, because of variations in **growth** and extraction. The same is also true for unnatural substances, because variations in consumption and individual sensitivity can affect outcomes. Folk medicine and self-prescribed methods can be pote...
23. ...d out that six of the fragments were hyper- and two of them were hypomethylated. Higher levels of DNA methyltransferase mRNA and enzyme activity were found. Kitchin (2001) proposed a model of altered **growth** factors which lead to cell proliferation and thus to carcinogenesis. From observations, it is known that chronic low-dose arsenic poisoning can lead to increased tolerance to its acute toxicity. MRP1...
24. ...quitin, mitogen-activated [MAP] kinases, extracellular regulated kinase [ERK], c-jun terminal kinases [JNK] and p38. Via JNK and p38 it activates c-fos, c-jun and egr-1 which are usually activated by **growth** factors and cytokines. The effects are largely dependent on the dosing regime and may be as well inversed. As shown by some experiments reviewed by Del Razo (2001), reactive oxygen species induced by...
25. ...activity of the activator protein 1 (AP-1) and the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) (maybe enhanced by elevated MAPK levels), which results in c-fos/c-jun activation, over-secretion of pro-inflammatory and **growth** promoting cytokines stimulating cell proliferation. Germolec et al. (1996) found an increased cytokine expression and cell proliferation in skin biopsies from individuals chronically exposed to arsen...
26. ...-1, and NF-κB, as well as the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-8 and TNF-α. The interference of oxidative stress with signal transduction pathways may affect physiological processes associated with cell **growth**, metabolic syndrome X, glucose homeostasis, lipid metabolism, obesity, insulin resistance, inflammation, and diabetes-2. Recent scientific evidence has elucidated the physiological roles of the PPARs...
27. ...determine the source of the exposure. Hair is a potential bioindicator for arsenic exposure due to its ability to store trace elements from blood. Incorporated elements maintain their position during **growth** of hair. Thus for a temporal estimation of exposure, an assay of hair composition needs to be carried out with a single hair which is not possible with older techniques requiring homogenization and d...
28. ...nd heart for transplant in rats. Pulmonary surfactants are also naturally secreted by type II cells of the lung alveoli in mammals. Surfactants are used with quantum dots in order to manipulate their **growth**, assembly, and electrical properties, in addition to mediating reactions on their surfaces. Research is ongoing in how surfactants arrange themselves on the surface of the quantum dots. Surfactants p...
29. ...uoride and hydrogen fluoride are equivalent. Fluorine, in the form of fluoride, is considered to be a micronutrient for human health, necessary to prevent dental cavities, and to promote healthy bone **growth**. The tea plant ("Camellia sinensis" L.) is a known accumulator of fluorine compounds, released upon forming infusions such as the common beverage. The fluorine compounds decompose into products inclu...
30. ...f calcium. Calcium and magnesium are opposed within the plant cells, and have antagonistic interactions. As a result, a homeostatic balance between Ca and Mg within the plant is necessary for optimal **growth** and proper development. Calcium deficiency symptoms appear initially as localized tissue necrosis leading to stunted plant growth, necrotic leaf margins on young leaves or curling of the leaves, and...
31. ...c balance between Ca and Mg within the plant is necessary for optimal growth and proper development. Calcium deficiency symptoms appear initially as localized tissue necrosis leading to stunted plant **growth**, necrotic leaf margins on young leaves or curling of the leaves, and eventual death of terminal buds and root tips. Generally, the new growth and rapidly growing tissues of the plant are affected fir...
32. ...lly as localized tissue necrosis leading to stunted plant growth, necrotic leaf margins on young leaves or curling of the leaves, and eventual death of terminal buds and root tips. Generally, the new **growth** and rapidly growing tissues of the plant are affected first. The mature leaves are rarely if ever affected because calcium accumulates to high concentrations in older leaves. Calcium deficiencies in...
33. ...ed and systemic corticosteroids, beta2-adrenergic agonists, anticholinergics, mast cell stabilizers, leukotriene antagonists. Androgens, antiandrogens, estrogens, gonadotropin, corticosteroids, human **growth** hormone, insulin, antidiabetics (sulfonylureas, biguanides/metformin, thiazolidinediones, insulin), thyroid hormones, antithyroid drugs, calcitonin, diphosphonate, vasopressin analogues. Antifungal,...
34. ...agk; and were coined the "wonder drugs". The introduction of the sulfa drugs led to the mortality rate from pneumonia in the U.S. to drop from 0.2% each year to 0.05% by 1939. Antibiotics inhibit the **growth** or the metabolic activities of bacteria and other microorganisms by a chemical substance of microbial origin. Penicillin, introduced a few years later, provided a broader spectrum of activity compare...
35. ...phenidate is predominantly for symptoms of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Consumption of methylphenidate in the U.S. out-paced all other countries between 1991 and 1999. Significant **growth** in consumption was also evident in Canada, New Zealand, Australia, and Norway. Currently, 85% of the world's methylphenidate is consumed in America. The first minor tranquilizer was Meprobamate. Only...
36. ...mors where some cells may develop resistance to the drugs used in chemotherapy. Chemotherapy causes fibroblasts near tumors to produce large amounts of the protein WNT16B. This protein stimulates the **growth** of cancer cells which are drug-resistant. MicroRNAs have also been shown to affect acquired drug resistance in cancer cells and this can be used for therapeutic purposes. Malaria in 2012 has become a...
37. ...ctive sites and these receptor-protein binding events are transduced, through the cell membrane, in a manner that stimulates specific intracellular processes that then determine cell adhesion, shape, **growth** and differentiation. Protein adsorption is influenced by many surface properties such as surface wettability, surface chemical composition and surface nanometre-scale morphology. Surfactant adsorptio...
38. ...poly was prevented by the development of the total synthesis alternatives, which began in "purely academic and wholly uncommercial" form with Gustav Komppa's first report: This ongoing check on price **growth** was confirmed in 1942 in a monograph on DuPont's history, where William S. Dutton said, "Indispensable in the manufacture of pyroxylin plastics, natural camphor imported from Formosa and selling norm...
39. ...uch as glass or plastic. In plastic production, haze is defined as the percentage of light that is deflected more than 2.5° from the incoming light direction. Turbidity in open water may be caused by **growth** of phytoplankton. Human activities that disturb land, such as construction, mining and agriculture, can lead to high sediment levels entering water bodies during rain storms due to storm water runoff...
40. ...teria from ultraviolet (UV) sterilization of water. In water bodies such as lakes, rivers and reservoirs, high turbidity levels can reduce the amount of light reaching lower depths, which can inhibit **growth** of submerged aquatic plants and consequently affect species which are dependent on them, such as fish and shellfish. High turbidity levels can also affect the ability of fish gills to absorb dissolve...
41. ...he reactor polymerization reactions take place in can also affect the dispersity of the resulting polymer. For bulk radical polymerization with low (<10%) conversion, anionic polymerization, and step **growth** polymerization to high conversion (>99%), typical dispersities are in the table below. With respect to batch and plug flow reactors (PFRs), the dispersities for the different polymerization methods a...
42. ...ller batch reactors within the CSTR and end up with different concentrations of reactants. As a result, the dispersity of the reactor lies between that of a batch and that of a homogeneous CSTR. Step **growth** polymerization is most affected by reactor type. To achieve any high molecular weight polymer, the fractional conversion must exceed 0.99, and the dispersity of this reaction mechanism in a batch or...
43. ...ected by reactor type. To achieve any high molecular weight polymer, the fractional conversion must exceed 0.99, and the dispersity of this reaction mechanism in a batch or PFR is 2.0. Running a step-**growth** polymerization in a CSTR will allow some polymer chains out of the reactor before achieving high molecular weight, while others stay in the reactor for a long time and continue to react. The result i...
44. ...he oral cavity, and are often even more resistant to absorption after they fail absorption in the former cavities and are swallowed. Neural drug delivery is the next step beyond the basic addition of **growth** factors to nerve guidance conduits. Drug delivery systems allow the rate of growth factor release to be regulated over time, which is critical for creating an environment more closely representative...
45. ...orption in the former cavities and are swallowed. Neural drug delivery is the next step beyond the basic addition of growth factors to nerve guidance conduits. Drug delivery systems allow the rate of **growth** factor release to be regulated over time, which is critical for creating an environment more closely representative of in vivo development environments. Subcutaneous administration Subcutaneous admin...
46. ...Direct inhibitors target proteins (PARP family) and kinases (ATM, DNA-PKCs) that are involved in DNA repair. Indirect inhibitors target protein tumor cell signaling proteins such as EGFR and insulin **growth** factor. The effective therapeutic index can be affected by targeting, in which the therapeutic agent is concentrated in its desirable area of effect. For example, in radiation therapy for cancerous t...
47. ...y Bruce Hasegawa from University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), and the first PET/CT prototype by D. W. Townsend from University of Pittsburgh in 1998. PET and PET/CT imaging experienced slower **growth** in its early years owing to the cost of the modality and the requirement for an on-site or nearby cyclotron. However, an administrative decision to approve medical reimbursement of limited PET and PE...
48. ...y and the requirement for an on-site or nearby cyclotron. However, an administrative decision to approve medical reimbursement of limited PET and PET/CT applications in oncology has led to phenomenal **growth** and widespread acceptance over the last few years, which also was facilitated by establishing 18F-labelled tracers for standard procedures, allowing work at non-cyclotron-equipped sites. PET/CT imagi...
49. ...M in blood plasma. The main role of potassium in plants is to provide the ionic environment for metabolic processes in the cytosol, and as such functions as a regulator of various processes including **growth** regulation. Plants require potassium ions (K) for protein synthesis and for the opening and closing of stomata, which is regulated by proton pumps to make surrounding guard cells either turgid or fla...
50. ...ant in cellular function. Deficiency of the nutrient causes disease of the affected organism. In single-cell organisms such as bacteria and yeast, low levels of magnesium manifests in greatly reduced **growth** rates. In magnesium transport knockout strains of bacteria, healthy rates are maintained only with exposure to very high external concentrations of the ion. In yeast, mitochondrial magnesium deficien...
51. ...crease in the rate of photosynthesis. This is due to the central position of the Mg ion in the chlorophyll molecule. The later effects of magnesium deficiency on plants are a significant reduction in **growth** and reproductive viability. Magnesium can also be toxic to plants, although this is typically seen only in drought conditions. In animals, magnesium deficiency (hypomagnesemia) is seen when the envir...
52. ...nowledge to aspects of whole plant physiology, in an attempt to show how these processes interact with the larger and more complex environment of the multicellular organism. Mg is essential for plant **growth** and is present in higher plants in amounts on the order of 80 μmol g dry weight. The amounts of Mg vary in different parts of the plant and are dependent upon nutritional status. In times of plenty,...
53. ...tissues. These processes involve the release of Mg from its bound and stored states and its transport back into the vascular tissue, where it can be distributed to the rest of the plant. In times of **growth** and development, Mg is also remobilised within the plant as source and sink relationships change. The homeostasis of Mg within single plant cells is maintained by processes occurring at the plasma me...
54. ...lammatory cells that cross the blood brain barrier. Overall, therapy with interferon beta leads to a reduction of neuron inflammation. Moreover, it is also thought to increase the production of nerve **growth** factor and consequently improve neuronal survival. In vitro, interferon beta reduces production of Th17 cells which are a subset of T lymphocytes believed to have a role in the pathophysiology of MS....
55. ...011 were the "most productive period in the history of orphan drug development, in terms of average annual orphan drug designations and orphan drug approvals". For the same decade the compound annual **growth** rate (CAGR) of the orphan drugs was an "impressive 25.8%, compared to only 20.1% for a matched control group of non-orphan drugs". By 2012, the market for orphan drugs was worth US$637 million, compa...
56. ...described the first-ever synthesis and expression of a peptide-coding gene. In August 1978, he produced synthetic insulin using his new transgenic genetically modified bacteria, followed in 1979 by a **growth** hormone. In 1976, Boyer founded Genentech with venture capitalist Robert A. Swanson. Genentech's approach to the first synthesis of insulin won out over Walter Gilbert's approach at Biogen which used...
57. ...th. Those without such complications may faced considerable delays before they start treatment. Plant nutrition Plant nutrition is the study of the chemical elements and compounds necessary for plant **growth** and reproduction, plant metabolism and their external supply. In its absence the plant is unable to complete a normal life cycle, or that the element is part of some essential plant constituent or me...
58. ...fe cycle, without the addition of nutrients as fertilizer. However, if the soil is cropped it is necessary to artificially modify soil fertility through the addition of fertilizer to promote vigorous **growth** and increase or sustain yield. This is done because, even with adequate water and light, nutrient deficiency can limit growth and crop yield. Carbon, hydrogen and oxygen are the basic nutrients plant...
59. ...ify soil fertility through the addition of fertilizer to promote vigorous growth and increase or sustain yield. This is done because, even with adequate water and light, nutrient deficiency can limit **growth** and crop yield. Carbon, hydrogen and oxygen are the basic nutrients plants receive from air and water. Justus von Liebig proved in 1840 that plants needed nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus. Liebig's...
60. ...en are the basic nutrients plants receive from air and water. Justus von Liebig proved in 1840 that plants needed nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus. Liebig's law of the minimum states that a plant's **growth** is limited by nutrient deficiency. Plant cultivation in media other than soil was used by Arnon and Stout in 1939 to show that molybdenum was essential to tomato growth. Plants take up essential elem...
61. ...minimum states that a plant's growth is limited by nutrient deficiency. Plant cultivation in media other than soil was used by Arnon and Stout in 1939 to show that molybdenum was essential to tomato **growth**. Plants take up essential elements from the soil through their roots and from the air through their leaves. Nutrient uptake in the soil is achieved by cation exchange, wherein root hairs pump hydroge...
62. ...ia that can convert atmospheric nitrogen into nitrogen the plant can use. Plants not classified as legumes such as wheat, corn and rice rely on nitrogen compounds present in the soil to support their **growth**. These can be supplied by mineralization of soil organic matter or added plant residues, nitrogen fixing bacteria, animal waste, through the breaking of triple bonded N molecules by lightning strikes...
63. ...and it is a constituent of amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. It is also an essential constituent of chlorophyll. In many agricultural settings, nitrogen is the limiting nutrient for rapid **growth**. Like nitrogen, phosphorus is involved with many vital plant processes. Within a plant, it is present mainly as a structural component of the nucleic acids: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonuclei...
64. ...bstantial amounts. It is essential for enzyme activity including enzymes involved in primary metabolism. It plays a role in turgor regulation, effecting the functioning of the stomata and cell volume **growth**. It seems to be of particular importance in leaves and at growing points. Potassium is outstanding among the nutrient elements for its mobility and solubility within plant tissues. Processes involvin...
65. ...ling, cell expansion, membrane trafficking and phloem transport. Sulfur is a structural component of some amino acids (including cystein and methionine) and vitamins, and is essential for chloroplast **growth** and function; it is found in the iron-sulfur complexes of the electron transport chains in photosynthesis. It is needed for N fixation by legumes, and the conversion of nitrate into amino acids and t...
66. ...omatal opening and closing. Essentiality of sodium: Zinc is required in a large number of enzymes and plays an essential role in DNA transcription. A typical symptom of zinc deficiency is the stunted **growth** of leaves, commonly known as "little leaf" and is caused by the oxidative degradation of the growth hormone auxin. In vascular plants, nickel is absorbed by plants in the form of Ni ion. Nickel is es...
67. ...d plays an essential role in DNA transcription. A typical symptom of zinc deficiency is the stunted growth of leaves, commonly known as "little leaf" and is caused by the oxidative degradation of the **growth** hormone auxin. In vascular plants, nickel is absorbed by plants in the form of Ni ion. Nickel is essential for activation of urease, an enzyme involved with nitrogen metabolism that is required to pr...
68. ...s. It has, however, been shown to be essential for nitrogen fixation by the nitrogen-fixing bacteria associated with legumes and other plants. Silicon is not considered an essential element for plant **growth** and development. It is always found in abundance in the environment and hence if needed it is available. It is found in the structures of plants and improves the health of plants. In plants, silicon...
69. ...d by some plants, but at very low concentrations. It may also be substituting for molybdenum. Selenium is probably not essential for flowering plants, but it can be beneficial; it can stimulate plant **growth**, improve tolerance of oxidative stress, and increase resistance to pathogens and herbivory. Nitrogen is transported via the xylem from the roots to the leaf canopy as nitrate ions, or in an organic f...
70. ...ger tissues, so that signs of deficiency appear first on the oldest tissues and then spread progressively to younger tissues. Because calcium is phloem immobile, calcium deficiency can be seen in new **growth**. When developing tissues are forced to rely on the xylem, calcium is supplied by transpiration only. Boron is not relocatable in the plant via the phloem. It must be supplied to the growing parts via...
71. ...e xylem. Foliar sprays affect only those parts sprayed, which may be insufficient for the fastest growing parts, and is very temporary. In plants, sulfur cannot be mobilized from older leaves for new **growth**, so deficiency symptoms are seen in the youngest tissues first. Symptoms of deficiency include yellowing of leaves and stunted growth. The effect of a nutrient deficiency can vary from a subtle depre...
72. .... In plants, sulfur cannot be mobilized from older leaves for new growth, so deficiency symptoms are seen in the youngest tissues first. Symptoms of deficiency include yellowing of leaves and stunted **growth**. The effect of a nutrient deficiency can vary from a subtle depression of growth rate to obvious stunting, deformity, discoloration, distress, and even death. Visual symptoms distinctive enough to be...
73. ...ciency symptoms are seen in the youngest tissues first. Symptoms of deficiency include yellowing of leaves and stunted growth. The effect of a nutrient deficiency can vary from a subtle depression of **growth** rate to obvious stunting, deformity, discoloration, distress, and even death. Visual symptoms distinctive enough to be useful in identifying a deficiency are rare. Most deficiencies are multiple and...
74. ...though mineral deficiency tends to cause premature defoliation, whereas solarization does not, nor does solarization depress nitrogen concentration. Nitrogen deficiency most often results in stunted **growth**, slow growth, and chlorosis. Nitrogen deficient plants will also exhibit a purple appearance on the stems, petioles and underside of leaves from an accumulation of anthocyanin pigments. Phosphorus de...
75. ...al deficiency tends to cause premature defoliation, whereas solarization does not, nor does solarization depress nitrogen concentration. Nitrogen deficiency most often results in stunted growth, slow **growth**, and chlorosis. Nitrogen deficient plants will also exhibit a purple appearance on the stems, petioles and underside of leaves from an accumulation of anthocyanin pigments. Phosphorus deficiency can...
76. ...ng points. Acute deficiency severely affects growing points, and die-back commonly occurs. Symptoms of potassium deficiency in white spruce include: browning and death of needles (chlorosis); reduced **growth** in height and diameter; impaired retention of needles; and reduced needle length. Mo deficiency is usually found on older growth. Fe, Mn and Cu effect new growth, causing green or yellow veins, Zn ca...
77. ...ite spruce include: browning and death of needles (chlorosis); reduced growth in height and diameter; impaired retention of needles; and reduced needle length. Mo deficiency is usually found on older **growth**. Fe, Mn and Cu effect new growth, causing green or yellow veins, Zn ca effect old and new leaves, and B will be seem on terminal buds. A plant with zinc deficiency may have leaves on top of each othe...
78. ...death of needles (chlorosis); reduced growth in height and diameter; impaired retention of needles; and reduced needle length. Mo deficiency is usually found on older growth. Fe, Mn and Cu effect new **growth**, causing green or yellow veins, Zn ca effect old and new leaves, and B will be seem on terminal buds. A plant with zinc deficiency may have leaves on top of each other due to reduced internodal expan...
79. ...ing and strengthening of cell walls. Lack of boron results in short thick cells producing stunted fruiting bodies and roots. Deficiency results in the death of the terminal growing points and stunted **growth**. Inadequate amounts of boron affect many agricultural crops, legume forage crops most strongly. Boron deficiencies can be detected by analysis of plant material to apply a correction before the obvio...
80. ...of air. However, N is unavailable for use by most organisms because there is a triple bond between the two nitrogen atoms in the molecule, making it almost inert. In order for nitrogen to be used for **growth** it must be "fixed" (combined) in the form of ammonium (NH) or nitrate (NO) ions. The weathering of rocks releases these ions so slowly that it has a negligible effect on the availability of fixed nit...
81. ...or nitrate (NO) ions. The weathering of rocks releases these ions so slowly that it has a negligible effect on the availability of fixed nitrogen. Therefore, nitrogen is often the limiting factor for **growth** and biomass production in all environments where there is a suitable climate and availability of water to support life. Microorganisms have a central role in almost all aspects of nitrogen availabili...
82. ...ed more than is protein synthesis. Deficiencies of Ca, K, and S affect the conversion of organic N to protein more than uptake and reduction. The size of the pool of soluble N is no guide "per se" to **growth** rate, but the size of the pool in relation to total N might be a useful ratio in this regard. Nitrogen availability in the rooting medium also affects the size and structure of tracheids formed in th...
83. ...nts in limited quantities in most soils because it is released very slowly from insoluble phosphates and is rapidly fixed once again. Under most environmental conditions it is the element that limits **growth** because of this constriction and due to its high demand by plants and microorganisms. Plants can increase phosphorus uptake by a mutualism with mycorrhiza. On some soils, the phosphorus nutrition of...
84. ...for phosphorus, were very small and purple for many months until spontaneous mycorrhizal inoculation, the effect of which was manifested by a greening of foliage and the development of vigorous shoot **growth**. When soil-potassium levels are high, plants take up more potassium than needed for healthy growth. The term "luxury consumption" has been applied to this. Potassium intake increases with root temper...
85. ...n, the effect of which was manifested by a greening of foliage and the development of vigorous shoot growth. When soil-potassium levels are high, plants take up more potassium than needed for healthy **growth**. The term "luxury consumption" has been applied to this. Potassium intake increases with root temperature and depresses calcium uptake. Calcium to boron ratio must be maintained in a narrow range for...
86. ...xury consumption" has been applied to this. Potassium intake increases with root temperature and depresses calcium uptake. Calcium to boron ratio must be maintained in a narrow range for normal plant **growth**. Lack of boron causes failure of calcium metabolism which produces hollow heart in beets and peanuts. Calcium and magnesium inhibit the uptake of trace metals. Copper and zinc mutually reduce uptake...
87. ...y analysis. Interpretation of the results of such studies, however, has been controversial. During recent decades the nearly two-century-old "law of minimum" or "Liebig's law" (that states that plant **growth** is controlled not by the total amount of resources available, but by the scarcest resource) has been replaced by several mathematical approaches that use different models in order to take the interac...
88. ...eveloped by D. R. Hoagland and W. C. Snyder in 1933. The solution (known as "A-Z solution") consists of all the essential macro- and micronutrients in the correct proportions necessary for most plant **growth**. An aerator is used to prevent an anoxic event or hypoxia. Hypoxia can affect the nutrient uptake of a plant because, without oxygen present, respiration becomes inhibited within the root cells. The...
89. ...pparent, or easily tied to the plant rather than other factors. The concept dates from the time of Dioscorides and Galen. Paracelsus (1493–1541) developed the concept, writing that "Nature marks each **growth** ... according to its curative benefit", and it was followed by Giambattista della Porta in his "Phytognomonica" (1588). The writings of Jakob Böhme (1575–1624) spread the doctrine of signatures. He s...
90. ...e can also be a source of harmful bacteria and infectious diseases, including leptospirosis. Panchgavya is used as a fertilizer and pesticide in agricultural operations. Proponents claim that it is a **growth** promoter in the poultry diet, that it is capable of increasing the growth of plankton for fish feed, and that it increases the production of milk in cows, increases the weight of pigs, and increases...
91. ...ing leptospirosis. Panchgavya is used as a fertilizer and pesticide in agricultural operations. Proponents claim that it is a growth promoter in the poultry diet, that it is capable of increasing the **growth** of plankton for fish feed, and that it increases the production of milk in cows, increases the weight of pigs, and increases the egg laying capacity of poultry. It is sometimes used as a base in cosm...
92. ...servatives, reagents, and fine chemicals for laboratory use. Soon afterward the boom that is commonly known as the "Wirtschaftswunder" (economic miracle) set in. For Merck, this meant two-digit sales-**growth** figures for many years. Products of this time included corticoid preparations — for example Fortecortin, which is still used today — the cold remedy Nasivin or the hormone preparations Gestafortin an...
93. ...d nothing is without poison; the dosage alone makes it so a thing is not a poison." German pharmacologist Hugo Schulz first described such a phenomenon in 1888 following his own observations that the **growth** of yeast could be stimulated by small doses of poisons. This was coupled with the work of German physician Rudolph Arndt, who studied animals given low doses of drugs, eventually giving rise to the A...
94. ...fficacy testing, safety evaluation, and marketing of these drugs. The global pharmaceuticals market produced treatments worth a total of $1,228.45 billion in 2020. The sector showed a compound annual **growth** rate (CAGR) of 1.8% in 2021, including the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. In historical terms, a pharmaceutical industry as an intellectual concept arose within the middle to late 1800s inside of...
95. ...d also established rudimentary methods in organic chemical synthesis. The development of synthetic chemical methods allowed scientists to systematically vary the structure of chemical substances, and **growth** in the emerging science of pharmacology expanded their ability to evaluate the biological effects of these structural changes. By the 1890s, the profound effect of adrenal extracts on many different...
96. ...d market exclusivity on that drug for a limited time (seven years), regardless of whether the drug is protected by patents. In 2011, global spending on prescription drugs topped $954 billion, even as **growth** slowed somewhat in Europe and North America. The United States accounts for more than a third of the global pharmaceutical market, with $340 billion in annual sales followed by the EU and Japan. Emer...
97. ...re expensive or time-consuming to run.  In many cases, the exact mechanism of action of hits from these screens is unknown and may require extensive target deconvolution experiments to ascertain. The **growth** of the field of chemoproteomics has provided numerous strategies to identify drug targets in these cases. Once a lead compound series has been established with sufficient target potency and selectivi...
98. ...compounds with desired properties. Virtual libraries of classes of compounds (drugs, natural products, diversity-oriented synthetic products) were recently generated using the FOG (fragment optimized **growth**) algorithm. This was done by using cheminformatic tools to train transition probabilities of a Markov chain on authentic classes of compounds, and then using the Markov chain to generate novel compou...
99. ...o form "S"-adenosylmethioninamine. This compound then donates its "n"-propylamine group in the biosynthesis of polyamines such as spermidine and spermine from putrescine. SAM is required for cellular **growth** and repair. It is also involved in the biosynthesis of several hormones and neurotransmitters that affect mood, such as epinephrine. Methyltransferases are also responsible for the addition of methyl...
100. ...argeting HER2, inducing an immune-mediated response that causes internalization and recycling of HER2. It may also upregulate cell cycle inhibitors such as p21 and p27. The HER2 pathway promotes cell **growth** and division when it is functioning normally; however, when it is overexpressed, cell growth accelerates beyond its normal limits. In some types of cancer, the pathway is exploited to promote rapid c...
101. ...of HER2. It may also upregulate cell cycle inhibitors such as p21 and p27. The HER2 pathway promotes cell growth and division when it is functioning normally; however, when it is overexpressed, cell **growth** accelerates beyond its normal limits. In some types of cancer, the pathway is exploited to promote rapid cell growth and proliferation and hence tumor formation. The EGF pathway includes the receptor...
102. ...division when it is functioning normally; however, when it is overexpressed, cell growth accelerates beyond its normal limits. In some types of cancer, the pathway is exploited to promote rapid cell **growth** and proliferation and hence tumor formation. The EGF pathway includes the receptors HER1 (EGFR), HER2, HER3, and HER4; the binding of ligands (e.g. EGF etc.) to HER receptors is required to activate...
103. ...proteins that are embedded in the cell membrane and communicate molecular signals from outside the cell (molecules called EGFs) to inside the cell, and turn genes on and off. The HER (human epidermal **growth** factor receptor) protein, binds to human epidermal growth factor, and stimulates cell proliferation. In some cancers, notably certain types of breast cancer, HER2 is over-expressed and causes cancer...
104. ...icate molecular signals from outside the cell (molecules called EGFs) to inside the cell, and turn genes on and off. The HER (human epidermal growth factor receptor) protein, binds to human epidermal **growth** factor, and stimulates cell proliferation. In some cancers, notably certain types of breast cancer, HER2 is over-expressed and causes cancer cells to reproduce uncontrollably. HER2 is localized at th...
105. ...from its intracellular domain, activating several different biochemical pathways. These include the PI3K/Akt pathway and the MAPK pathway. Signals on these pathways promote cell proliferation and the **growth** of blood vessels to nourish the tumor (angiogenesis). ERBB2 is the preferred dimerization partner for the other family members and ERBB2 heterodimers signaling is stronger and longer acting compared...
106. ...tion of AKT. In addition, trastuzumab suppresses angiogenesis both by induction of antiangiogenic factors and repression of proangiogenic factors. It is thought that a contribution to the unregulated **growth** observed in cancer could be due to proteolytic cleavage of HER2/neu that results in the release of the extracellular domain. One of the most relevant proteins that trastuzumab activates is the tumor...
107. ...ally through tools such as free energy maps. There are four principal protein targets with which drugs can interact: "NMBD = neuromuscular blocking drugs; NMDA = N-methyl-d-aspartate; EGF = epidermal **growth** factor." The majority of drugs either  There are 7 main drug actions: The desired activity of a drug is mainly due to successful targeting of one of the following: General anesthetics were once thoug...
108. ...x epidermis, increased sensory abilities, and the absence of hair and sebaceous glands. The ridges increase friction for improved grasping. Dermal papillae also play a pivotal role in hair formation, **growth** and cycling. In mucous membranes, the equivalent structures to dermal papillae are generally termed "connective tissue papillae", which interdigitate with the rete pegs of the superficial epithelium....
109. ...15 was $9.1 billion. According to a report by the Australian Productivity Commission the PBS is expected to cost 2.6% of Australia's GDP by 2045 up from 0.7% in 2005. Further attempts to restrain the **growth** in costs of the PBS may be needed, however, attempts to increase consumer prices of drugs have always proved politically unpopular. The comparative cost-effectiveness processes of the PBS nonetheless...
110. ...n making other neurotransmitters and some steroid hormones bind to their receptors. In other tissues, it mediates cell signal transduction in response to a variety of hormones, neurotransmitters, and **growth** factors and participates in osmoregulation. In most mammalian cells the concentrations of "myo"-inositol are 5 to 500 times greater inside cells than outside them. A 2023 meta-analysis found that ino...
111. ...any modern explosives and solid rocket propellants. When plants are exposed to increasing concentrations of road salt, the plant cells become dysfunctional and undergo apoptosis, leading to inhibited **growth**. Inositol pretreatment could reduce these effects. High doses of inositol may be used to treat trichotillomania (compulsive hair-pulling) and related disorders. D-"chiro"-inositol is an important mes...
112. ...809 million in 1996 to $2.8 billion in 2006. The company gained fame from its discovery of a natural hormone used in the treatment of female infertility, and its treatments for multiple sclerosis and **growth** hormone deficiency. Bertarelli and his family sold the company to Merck KGaA of Germany in January 2007 for US$13.3 billion, forming the new company Merck-Serono. His family split an estimated $9 bil...
113. ...evolving from a biotechnology company into a pharmaceutical company, acquiring several subsidiaries, though it still relied heavily on contracting to manufacture its drugs. The company continued its **growth** in the 2010s. However, it came under heavy scrutiny over its business practices, including extremely high pricing of drugs such as Sovaldi and Truvada in the United States relative to production cost...
114. ...odels of cellular behavior. For example, in 2007 researchers developed an in silico model of tuberculosis to aid in drug discovery, with the prime benefit of its being faster than real time simulated **growth** rates, allowing phenomena of interest to be observed in minutes rather than months. More work can be found that focus on modeling a particular cellular process such as the growth cycle of "Caulobacte...
115. ...real time simulated growth rates, allowing phenomena of interest to be observed in minutes rather than months. More work can be found that focus on modeling a particular cellular process such as the **growth** cycle of "Caulobacter crescentus". These efforts fall far short of an exact, fully predictive computer model of a cell's entire behavior. Limitations in the understanding of molecular dynamics and ce...
116. ...depending on the definition used, the age group studied, and the geographic location. Polypharmacy continues to grow in importance because of aging populations. Many countries are experiencing a fast **growth** of the older population, 65 years and older. This growth is a result of the baby-boomer generation getting older and an increased life expectancy as a result of ongoing improvement in health care ser...
117. ...and the geographic location. Polypharmacy continues to grow in importance because of aging populations. Many countries are experiencing a fast growth of the older population, 65 years and older. This **growth** is a result of the baby-boomer generation getting older and an increased life expectancy as a result of ongoing improvement in health care services worldwide. About 21% of adults with intellectual di...
118. ...efined by Kossel, are essential components of basic metabolic pathways required for life. They are associated with fundamental cellular functions such as nutrient assimilation, energy production, and **growth** and development. These metabolites have a wide distribution across many phyla and often span more than one kingdom. Primary metabolites include the basic building blocks of life: carbohydrates, lipid...
119. ...ized from primary metabolites, specifically nucleic acids and carbohydrates. First messengers are signaling molecules that regulate metabolism and cellular differentiation. These include hormones and **growth** factors composed of peptides, biogenic amines, steroid hormones, auxins, and gibberellins. These first messengers interact with cellular receptors, which are protein-based, and trigger the activation...
120. ...rmation of new types of materials known as polyelectrolyte multilayers (PEMs). These thin films are constructed using a layer-by-layer" (LbL"') deposition technique. During LbL deposition, a suitable **growth** substrate (usually charged) is dipped back and forth between dilute baths of positively and negatively charged polyelectrolyte solutions. During each dip, a small amount of polyelectrolyte is adsorbe...
121. ...anoboxes. The shapes of nanoparticles may be determined by the intrinsic crystal habit of the material, or by the influence of the environment around their creation, such as the inhibition of crystal **growth** on certain faces by coating additives, the shape of emulsion droplets and micelles in the precursor preparation, or the shape of pores in a surrounding solid matrix. Some applications of nanoparticle...
122. ...use formation of a polydisperse population of crystals with various sizes. Controlling nucleation allows for the control of size, dispersity, and phase of nanoparticles. The process of nucleation and **growth** within nanoparticles can be described by nucleation, Ostwald ripening or the two-step mechanism-autocatalysis model. The original theory from 1927 of nucleation in nanoparticle formation was Classica...
123. ...tion Theory (CNT). It was believed that the changes in particle size could be described by burst nucleation alone. In 1950, Viktor LaMer used CNT as the nucleation basis for his model of nanoparticle **growth**. There are three portions to the LaMer model: 1. Rapid increase in the concentration of free monomers in solution, 2. fast nucleation of the monomer characterized by explosive growth of particles, 3....
124. ...of nanoparticle growth. There are three portions to the LaMer model: 1. Rapid increase in the concentration of free monomers in solution, 2. fast nucleation of the monomer characterized by explosive **growth** of particles, 3. Growth of particles controlled by diffusion of the monomer. This model describes that the growth on the nucleus is spontaneous but limited by diffusion of the precursor to the nuclei...
125. ...There are three portions to the LaMer model: 1. Rapid increase in the concentration of free monomers in solution, 2. fast nucleation of the monomer characterized by explosive growth of particles, 3. **Growth** of particles controlled by diffusion of the monomer. This model describes that the growth on the nucleus is spontaneous but limited by diffusion of the precursor to the nuclei surface. The LaMer mode...
126. ...ee monomers in solution, 2. fast nucleation of the monomer characterized by explosive growth of particles, 3. Growth of particles controlled by diffusion of the monomer. This model describes that the **growth** on the nucleus is spontaneous but limited by diffusion of the precursor to the nuclei surface. The LaMer model has not been able to explain the kinetics of nucleation in any modern system. Ostwald ri...
127. ...s process is typically undesirable in nanoparticle synthesis as it negatively impacts the functionality of nanoparticles. In 1997, Finke and Watzky proposed a new kinetic model for the nucleation and **growth** of nanoparticles. This 2-step model suggested that constant slow nucleation (occurring far from supersaturation) is followed by autocatalytic growth where dispersity of nanoparticles is largely deter...
128. ...roposed a new kinetic model for the nucleation and growth of nanoparticles. This 2-step model suggested that constant slow nucleation (occurring far from supersaturation) is followed by autocatalytic **growth** where dispersity of nanoparticles is largely determined. This F-W (Finke-Watzky) 2-step model provides a firmer mechanistic basis for the design of nanoparticles with a focus on size, shape, and disp...
129. ...r autocatalytic step) was added to account for a small particle agglomerating with a larger particle. Finally in 2014, an alternative fourth step was considered that accounted for a atomistic surface **growth** on a large particle. As of 2014, the classical nucleation theory explained that the nucleation rate will correspond to the driving force. One method for measuring the nucleation rate is through the i...
130. ...etron sputtering to create the metal vapor allows to achieve higher yields. The method can easily be generalized to alloy nanoparticles by choosing appropriate metallic targets. The use of sequential **growth** schemes, where the particles travel through a second metallic vapor, results in growth of core-shell (CS) structures. Nanoparticles can also be formed using radiation chemistry. Radiolysis from gamma...
131. ...can easily be generalized to alloy nanoparticles by choosing appropriate metallic targets. The use of sequential growth schemes, where the particles travel through a second metallic vapor, results in **growth** of core-shell (CS) structures. Nanoparticles can also be formed using radiation chemistry. Radiolysis from gamma rays can create strongly active free radicals in solution. This relatively simple tech...
132. ...to prevent the re-oxidation of the metal. Once in the zero-valence state, metal atoms begin to coalesce into particles. A chemical surfactant surrounds the particle during formation and regulates its **growth**. In sufficient concentrations, the surfactant molecules stay attached to the particle. This prevents it from dissociating or forming clusters with other particles. Formation of nanoparticles using th...
133. ...icles. The reason why modern gas evaporation techniques can produce a relatively narrow size distribution is that aggregation can be avoided. However, even in this case, random residence times in the **growth** zone, due to the combination of drift and diffusion, result in a size distribution appearing lognormal. It would, therefore, appear desirable to process a material in such a way that it is physically...
134. ...optimum composition reported by these researchers is 30% w/w of SiO (~ 12 nm) in dye-doped PMMA. Nanoparticles are being investigated as self-cleaning paint and potential drug delivery system. Drugs, **growth** factors or other biomolecules can be conjugated to nano particles to aid targeted delivery. This nanoparticle-assisted delivery allows for spatial and temporal controls of the loaded drugs to achieve...
135. ...he amount of money spent for a certain amount of prescription drugs (around 130 US dollars). It was also accessed that Canada was one of the top countries that increased its yearly average per capita **growth** on pharmaceutical expenditures the most from 2000 to 2010 with 4 percent a year (with taking inflation into account) The Marketed Health Products Directorate mainly collects adverse drug reaction rep...
136. ...life sciences. Goodwin currently has over 2,800 employees worldwide, representing a nearly 30% increase in lawyers and staff since January 2021, and more than a 60% increase overall since 2017. This **growth** has been mirrored by the firm's rising revenues, which increased from $1.33 billion in 2019 to $1.49 billion in 2020, and reaching $1.97 billion in 2021. Between 2010 and 2021, Goodwin's annual reven...
137. ...ecome its Chief Justice), and the firm was renamed Goodwin, Procter & Hoar, a name it would retain for the next 72 years. The Depression years proved pivotal for the firm's future diversification and **growth**. Liquidation cases, including the unwinding of the Boston Continental Bank, provided a surge of business, as did the proliferation of federal agencies and regulations brought on by the New Deal. Arou...
138. ...gular periods, weight loss, and hot flashes. It may cause harm to the baby if taken during pregnancy or breastfeeding. It is a selective estrogen-receptor modulator (SERM) and works by decreasing the **growth** of breast cancer cells. It is a member of the triphenylethylene group of compounds. Tamoxifen was initially made in 1962, by chemist Dora Richardson. It is on the World Health Organization's List of...
139. ...cted cases of gynecomastia.  Tamoxifen is useful in the treatment of peripheral precocious puberty, for instance due to McCune–Albright syndrome, in both girls and boys. It has been found to decrease **growth** velocity and the rate of bone maturation in girls with precocious puberty, and hence to improve final height in these individuals. Tamoxifen is available as a tablet or oral solution. Tamoxifen has a...
140. ...pressors, and the complex then binds to DNA to modulate gene expression. Some of these proteins include NCoR and SMRT. Tamoxifen function can be regulated by a number of different variables including **growth** factors. Tamoxifen needs to block growth factor proteins such as ErbB2/HER2 because high levels of ErbB2 have been shown to occur in tamoxifen resistant cancers. Tamoxifen seems to require a protein...
141. ...NA to modulate gene expression. Some of these proteins include NCoR and SMRT. Tamoxifen function can be regulated by a number of different variables including growth factors. Tamoxifen needs to block **growth** factor proteins such as ErbB2/HER2 because high levels of ErbB2 have been shown to occur in tamoxifen resistant cancers. Tamoxifen seems to require a protein PAX2 for its full anticancer effect. In t...
142. ...sion of the pro-proliferative ERBB2 protein. In contrast, when AIB-1 expression is higher than PAX2, tamoxifen/ER complex upregulates the expression of ERBB2 resulting in stimulation of breast cancer **growth**. Tamoxifen is antigonadotropic in postmenopausal women and partially suppresses levels of the gonadotropins, luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in such women. However, it...
143. ...sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels, and IGF-1 levels are dose-dependent across a dosage range of 1 to 20 mg/day in women with breast cancer. Tamoxifen has been found to decrease insulin-like **growth** factor 1 (IGF-1) levels by 17 to 38% in women and men. Suppression of IGF-1 production in the liver is a well-known action of estrogens and SERMs. A 10 mg/day dosage of tamoxifen is nearly as effecti...
144. ...drugs in an anti-angiogenetic protocol developed by Dr. Judah Folkman, a researcher at Children's Hospital at Harvard Medical School in Boston. Folkman discovered in the 1970s that angiogenesis – the **growth** of new blood vessels – plays a significant role in the development of cancer. Since his discovery, an entirely new field of cancer research has developed. Clinical trials on angiogenesis inhibitors h...
145. ...lt height (PAH). The same effects have also been seen in short pubertal boys. However, one "in vitro" study in 2007 and later an "in vivo" study in 2008 have shown that tamoxifen induces apoptosis in **growth** plate chondrocytes, reduces serum insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels and causes persistent retardation of longitudinal and cortical radial bone growth in young male rats, leading the researc...
146. ...in short pubertal boys. However, one "in vitro" study in 2007 and later an "in vivo" study in 2008 have shown that tamoxifen induces apoptosis in growth plate chondrocytes, reduces serum insulin-like **growth** factor 1 (IGF-1) levels and causes persistent retardation of longitudinal and cortical radial bone growth in young male rats, leading the researchers to express concern giving tamoxifen to growing in...
147. ...own that tamoxifen induces apoptosis in growth plate chondrocytes, reduces serum insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) levels and causes persistent retardation of longitudinal and cortical radial bone **growth** in young male rats, leading the researchers to express concern giving tamoxifen to growing individuals. Tamoxifen has been studied in the treatment of the rare conditions of retroperitoneal fibrosis...
148. ...ccurate and restricted in concentration. The global disposable oxygen masks market, according to Altus Market Research, has the potential to grow by US$1.1 billion between 2019 and 2023. The market's **growth** pace will also pick up speed throughout this time. Silicone and rubber oxygen masks are heavier than plastic masks. They are designed to provide a good seal for long-duration use by aviators, medical...
149. ...st biological drugs, including a majority of recombinant proteins are considered ineligible for an ANDA under current US law. However, a handful of biologic medicines, including biosynthetic insulin, **growth** hormone, glucagon, calcitonin, and hyaluronidase are grandfathered under governance of the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetics Act, because these products were already approved when legislation to regula...
150. ...ss, and trouble breathing. Long term steroid use can cause many adverse effects including steroid-induced glaucoma and cataract. Prostaglandin analogs may cause changes in iris color and eyelid skin, **growth** of eyelashes, stinging, blurred vision, eye redness, itching, and burning. Beta blockers' side effects include low blood pressure, reduced pulse rate, fatigue, shortness of breath, and in rare occasi...
151. ...elop an immune defence against it the way animal sourced insulin stimulates the human immune system. Administered to patients whose pituitary glands generate insufficient quantities to support normal **growth** and development. Before recombinant HGH became available, HGH for therapeutic use was obtained from pituitary glands of cadavers. This unsafe practice led to some patients developing Creutzfeldt–Jako...
152. ...University discovered that electrolysis of platinum electrodes generated a soluble platinum complex which inhibited binary fission in "Escherichia coli" ("E. coli") bacteria. Although bacterial cell **growth** continued, cell division was arrested, the bacteria growing as filaments up to 300 times their normal length. The octahedral Pt(IV) complex "cis"-[PtCl(NH)], but not the "trans" isomer, was found to...
153. ...ed, the bacteria growing as filaments up to 300 times their normal length. The octahedral Pt(IV) complex "cis"-[PtCl(NH)], but not the "trans" isomer, was found to be effective at forcing filamentous **growth** of "E. coli" cells. The square planar Pt(II) complex, "cis"-[PtCl(NH)] turned out to be even more effective at forcing filamentous growth. This finding led to the observation that "cis"-[PtCl(NH)] wa...
154. ...ans" isomer, was found to be effective at forcing filamentous growth of "E. coli" cells. The square planar Pt(II) complex, "cis"-[PtCl(NH)] turned out to be even more effective at forcing filamentous **growth**. This finding led to the observation that "cis"-[PtCl(NH)] was indeed highly effective at regressing the mass of sarcomas in rats. Confirmation of this discovery, and extension of testing to other tu...
155. ...or human medicines for the treatment of HIV/AIDS, cancer, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases, auto-immune and other immune dysfunctions, and viral diseases, and for veterinary medicines for use for **growth** or yield enhancers. It is also compulsory for advanced-therapy medicines such as gene-therapy, somatic cell-therapy or tissue-engineered medicines and for orphan medicines (for rare diseases). The ce...
156. ...ction. When used for eye disease side effects can include vision loss and retinal detachment. Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody that functions as an angiogenesis inhibitor. It works by slowing the **growth** of new blood vessels by inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), in other words anti–VEGF therapy. Bevacizumab was approved for medical use in the United States in 2004. It is on the...
157. ...n loss and retinal detachment. Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody that functions as an angiogenesis inhibitor. It works by slowing the growth of new blood vessels by inhibiting vascular endothelial **growth** factor A (VEGF-A), in other words anti–VEGF therapy. Bevacizumab was approved for medical use in the United States in 2004. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Bevac...
158. ...Bevacizumab, in combination with erlotinib, is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer with Epidermal **Growth** Factor Receptor (EGFR) activating mutations. In December 2010, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) notified its intention to remove the breast cancer indication from bevacizumab, saying that it...
159. ...anted in 2007. In the EU, bevacizumab in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. Bevacizumab slows tumor **growth** but does not affect overall survival in people with glioblastoma. The FDA granted accelerated approval for the treatment of recurrent glioblastoma multiforme in May 2009. A 2018 Cochrane review deeme...
160. ...taxel and topotecan in people who cannot receive platinum therapy, is indicated for the treatment of adults with persistent, recurrent, or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix. Bevacizumab inhibits the **growth** of blood vessels, which is part of the body's normal healing and maintenance. The body grows new blood vessels in wound healing, and as collateral circulation around blocked or atherosclerotic blood...
161. ...nce of nephrotic syndrome necessitates permanent discontinuation of bevacizumab. Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody that blocks angiogenesis by inhibiting vascular endothelial **growth** factor A (VEGF-A). VEGF-A is a growth factor protein that stimulates angiogenesis in a variety of diseases, especially in cancer. By binding VEGF-A, bevacizumab should act outside the cell, but in so...
162. ...permanent discontinuation of bevacizumab. Bevacizumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody that blocks angiogenesis by inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A). VEGF-A is a **growth** factor protein that stimulates angiogenesis in a variety of diseases, especially in cancer. By binding VEGF-A, bevacizumab should act outside the cell, but in some cases (cervical and breast cancer)...
163. ...lls after intravitreal injection. Bevacizumab was originally derived from a mouse monoclonal antibody generated from mice immunized with the 165-residue form of recombinant human vascular endothelial **growth** factor. It was humanized by retaining the binding region and replacing the rest with a human full light chain and a human truncated IgG1 heavy chain, with some other substitutions. The resulting plas...
164. ...izumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody and in 2004, it became the first clinically used angiogenesis inhibitor. Its development was based on the discovery of human vascular endothelial **growth** factor (VEGF), a protein that stimulated blood vessel growth, in the laboratory of Genentech scientist Napoleone Ferrara. Ferrara later demonstrated that antibodies against VEGF inhibit tumor growth...
165. ...2004, it became the first clinically used angiogenesis inhibitor. Its development was based on the discovery of human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a protein that stimulated blood vessel **growth**, in the laboratory of Genentech scientist Napoleone Ferrara. Ferrara later demonstrated that antibodies against VEGF inhibit tumor growth in mice. His work validated the hypothesis of Judah Folkman,...
166. ...growth factor (VEGF), a protein that stimulated blood vessel growth, in the laboratory of Genentech scientist Napoleone Ferrara. Ferrara later demonstrated that antibodies against VEGF inhibit tumor **growth** in mice. His work validated the hypothesis of Judah Folkman, proposed in 1971, that stopping angiogenesis might be useful in controlling cancer growth. It received its first approval in the United St...
167. ...rated that antibodies against VEGF inhibit tumor growth in mice. His work validated the hypothesis of Judah Folkman, proposed in 1971, that stopping angiogenesis might be useful in controlling cancer **growth**. It received its first approval in the United States in 2004, for combination use with standard chemotherapy for metastatic colon cancer. It has since been approved for use in certain lung cancers, r...
168. ...on the market, there almost 45,000 possible two-drug combinations and almost 4.5 million three-drug combinations for to choose from. That level of complexity is one of the primary impediments to the **growth** of combination therapy in oncology. The National Cancer Institute has recently highlighted combination therapy as a top research priority in oncology. Combination therapy with two or more antibiotics...
169. ...ongratulated Burke for his propensity for risk-taking. J&J announced that Richard B. Sellars would step down as CEO as of November 1, 1976, and be replaced by Burke. As CEO, Burke is credited for the **growth** of Johnson & Johnson to its current size and prominence, but he is perhaps best known for his crisis management in 1982, when it was found that Tylenol capsules had been poisoned with cyanide. In add...
170. ...al treatment, or firing process, is often necessary in order to favor further polycondensation and enhance mechanical properties and structural stability via final sintering, densification, and grain **growth**. One of the distinct advantages of using this methodology as opposed to the more traditional processing techniques is that densification is often achieved at a much lower temperature. The precursor s...
171. ...isconsin. In the early 2000s, the pharming industry was robust. Proof of concept has been established for the production of many therapeutic proteins, including antibodies, blood products, cytokines, **growth** factors, hormones, recombinant enzymes and human and veterinary vaccines. By 2003 several PDP products for the treatment of human diseases were under development by nearly 200 biotech companies, incl...
172. ...e shown to be useful for the production of biopharmaceuticals. These frugal organisms can be cultivated in bioreactors (as opposed to being grown in fields), secrete the transformed proteins into the **growth** medium and, thus, substantially reduce the burden of protein purification in preparing recombinant proteins for medical use. In addition, both species can be engineered to cause secretion of proteins...
173. ...researcher, Barnett Rosenberg, working under an NCI contract. This was yet another serendipitous discovery: Rosenberg had initially wanted to explore the possible effects of an electric field on the **growth** of bacteria. He observed that the bacteria unexpectedly ceased to divide when placed in an electric field. Excited, he spent months of testing to try to explain this phenomenon. He was disappointed t...
174. ...eservoirs, stock ponds, swimming pools, and fish tanks. Copper 8-hydroxyquinoline is sometimes included in paint to prevent mildew. Paint containing copper is used on boat bottoms to prevent barnacle **growth** (biofouling). Copper also has the ability to destroy viruses, such as influenza viruses, noroviruses or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Gold is used in dental inlays and inhibits the growth of ba...
175. ...nacle growth (biofouling). Copper also has the ability to destroy viruses, such as influenza viruses, noroviruses or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Gold is used in dental inlays and inhibits the **growth** of bacteria. Physicians prescribed various forms of lead to heal ailments ranging from constipation to infectious diseases such as the plague. Lead was also used to preserve or sweeten wine. Lead ars...
176. ...the infants might have contracted as they passed through the birth canal. Silver ions are increasingly incorporated into many hard surfaces, such as plastics and steel, as a way to control microbial **growth** on items such as toilet seats, stethoscopes, and even refrigerator doors. Among the newer products being sold are plastic food containers infused with silver nanoparticles, which are intended to keep...
177. ...lohexyltin hydroxide is used as an acaricide. Triphenyltin hydroxide and triphenyltin acetate are used as fungicides. Zinc oxide is used as a weak antiseptic and in paints as a white pigment and mold-**growth** inhibitor. Zinc chloride is a common ingredient in mouthwashes and deodorants, and zinc pyrithione is an ingredient in antidandruff shampoos. Galvanized (zinc-coated) fittings on roofs impede the gro...
178. ...wth inhibitor. Zinc chloride is a common ingredient in mouthwashes and deodorants, and zinc pyrithione is an ingredient in antidandruff shampoos. Galvanized (zinc-coated) fittings on roofs impede the **growth** of algae. Copper- and zinc-treated shingles are available. Zinc iodide and zinc sulfate are used as topical antiseptics. Besides the individual toxic effects of each metal, a wide range of metals are...
179. ...k over as chief executive until 2007, RBS's assets quadrupled, its cost-to-income ratio improved markedly, and its profits soared. In 2006 pre-tax profits climbed 16% to £9.2 billion with most of the **growth** coming from its investment banking business. However, following a shareholder crisis meeting in the midst of a $12bn rights issue, McKillop was criticized for "re-arranging the cosy deck-chairs on th...
180. ...hilidor as well as Valeant's "alternative fulfillment" program, which the company used to increase prescriptions for its own (expensive) drugs instead of generic substitutes. An important part of the **growth** strategy for Valeant under Michael Pearson had been the acquisition of medical and pharmaceutical companies and the subsequent price increases for their products. Valeant's strategy of exponential pr...
181. ...named Perrigo chief executive Joseph Papa as a permanent replacement for Pearson, and entrusted him with turning around the company. Papa set on a path of strategic sales, debt reduction, and organic **growth**. By January 2017, the company had sold its skincare brands to L'Oréal for $1.3 billion and its Dendreon biotech unit to Sanpower for $819.9 million. In June, the company sold iNova Pharmaceuticals fo...
182. ...the company's oral health business OraPharma partnered with Alex Rodriguez to launch its "Cover Your Bases" gum disease awareness campaign. In 2023, the company's revenue totalled $8.76 billion (7.9% **growth** compared to 2022). Adjusted EBITDA totalled $3.01 billion (unchanged from 2022). Net debt was $21.65 billion, excluding $947 million on the balance sheet (5.7 times the company's market value). Three...
183. ...million on the balance sheet (5.7 times the company's market value). Three of Bausch Health's four operating segments increased revenue, with the highest result coming from Salix Pharmaceuticals (8% **growth** ), the company's largest business (nearly half of revenue, 59% of segment profit). About 80% of Salix's sales are Xifaxan, an antibiotic for treating diarrhea. Bausch Health Companies (Salix Pharmace...
184. ...s used alone or in combination with an estrogen. It is ingested orally. Side effects of NETA include menstrual irregularities, headaches, nausea, breast tenderness, mood changes, acne, increased hair **growth**, and others. NETA is a progestin, or a synthetic progestogen, and hence is an agonist of the progesterone receptor, the biological target of progestogens like progesterone. It has weak androgenic and...
185. ...nder the brand name Ablacton to suppress lactation in postpartum women. Side effects of NETA include menstrual irregularities, headaches, nausea, breast tenderness, mood changes, acne, increased hair **growth**, and others. NETA is a prodrug of norethisterone in the body. Upon oral ingestion, it is rapidly converted into norethisterone by esterases during intestinal and first-pass hepatic metabolism. Hence,...
186. ...highest IP (Intellectual Property) generation within the biopharmaceutical industry, generating 37 percent of the total number of granted patents worldwide; however, there is still a large margin for **growth** and innovation within the industry. Revisions to the current IP system to ensure greater reliability for R&D (research and development) investments is a prominent topic of debate in the US as well. B...
187. ...rea enables organic molecules to adhere well. It degrades to Orthosillicic acid (HSiO), which causes no harm to the body. This has opened potential applications in medicine such as a framework of the **growth** of bone. Surface modification can also affect properties that promote cell adhesion. One particular research in 2005 studied the mammalian cell adhesion on the modified surfaces of porous silicon. Th...
188. ...porous layers were completely removed by the simulated body fluids within a day. In contrast, low to medium porosity microporous layers displayed more stable configurations and induced hydroxyapatite **growth**. The first sign of porous silicon as a bioactive material was found in 1995. In the conducted study, it was found that hydroxyapatite growth was occurring on porous silicon areas. It was then suggest...
189. ...ayed more stable configurations and induced hydroxyapatite growth. The first sign of porous silicon as a bioactive material was found in 1995. In the conducted study, it was found that hydroxyapatite **growth** was occurring on porous silicon areas. It was then suggested that "hydrated microporous Si could be a bioactive form of the semiconductor and suggest that Si itself should be seriously considered for...
190. ...f should be seriously considered for development as a material for widespread in vivo applications." Another paper published the finding that porous silicon may be used a substrate for hydroxyapatite **growth** either by simple soaking process or laser-liquid-solid interaction process. Since then, in-vitro studies have been conducted to evaluate the interaction of cells with porous silicon. A 1995 study of...
191. ...cells have clear preference for adhesion to porous silicon over untreated surface. The study indicated that porous silicon can be suitable for cell culturing purposes and can be used to control cell **growth** pattern. Another positive attribute of porous silicon is the degradation of porous silicon into monomeric silicic acid (SiOH4). Silicic acid is reputed to be the most natural form of element in the e...
192. ...tation processes. The most important methods are the maintenance of constant power consumption per unit of broth and the maintenance of constant volumetric transfer rate. Fermentation begins once the **growth** medium is inoculated with the organism of interest. Growth of the inoculum does not occur immediately. This is the period of adaptation, called the lag phase. Following the lag phase, the rate of gro...
193. ...nance of constant power consumption per unit of broth and the maintenance of constant volumetric transfer rate. Fermentation begins once the growth medium is inoculated with the organism of interest. **Growth** of the inoculum does not occur immediately. This is the period of adaptation, called the lag phase. Following the lag phase, the rate of growth of the organism steadily increases, for a certain perio...
194. ...wth medium is inoculated with the organism of interest. Growth of the inoculum does not occur immediately. This is the period of adaptation, called the lag phase. Following the lag phase, the rate of **growth** of the organism steadily increases, for a certain period—this period is the log or exponential phase. After a phase of exponential growth, the rate of growth slows down, due to the continuously falli...
195. ...n, called the lag phase. Following the lag phase, the rate of growth of the organism steadily increases, for a certain period—this period is the log or exponential phase. After a phase of exponential **growth**, the rate of growth slows down, due to the continuously falling concentrations of nutrients and/or a continuously increasing (accumulating) concentrations of toxic substances. This phase, where the i...
196. ...ase. Following the lag phase, the rate of growth of the organism steadily increases, for a certain period—this period is the log or exponential phase. After a phase of exponential growth, the rate of **growth** slows down, due to the continuously falling concentrations of nutrients and/or a continuously increasing (accumulating) concentrations of toxic substances. This phase, where the increase of the rate...
197. ...ows down, due to the continuously falling concentrations of nutrients and/or a continuously increasing (accumulating) concentrations of toxic substances. This phase, where the increase of the rate of **growth** is checked, is the deceleration phase. After the deceleration phase, growth ceases and the culture enters a stationary phase or a steady state. The biomass remains constant, except when certain accum...
198. ...a continuously increasing (accumulating) concentrations of toxic substances. This phase, where the increase of the rate of growth is checked, is the deceleration phase. After the deceleration phase, **growth** ceases and the culture enters a stationary phase or a steady state. The biomass remains constant, except when certain accumulated chemicals in the culture chemically break down the cells in a process...
199. ...n to die off. The total amount of biomass may not decrease, but the number of viable organisms will decrease. The microbes or eukaryotic cells used for fermentation grow in (or on) specially designed **growth** medium which supplies the nutrients required by the organisms or cells. A variety of media exist, but invariably contain a carbon source, a nitrogen source, water, salts, and micronutrients. In the p...
200. ...composition of the broth and the needs of the organism, as well as the objective of the fermentation. For instance, some cultures will not produce secondary metabolites in the presence of phosphate. **Growth** factors and trace nutrients are included in the fermentation broth for organisms incapable of producing all of the vitamins they require. Yeast extract is a common source of micronutrients and vitami...
201. ...cur. If the biomass is to be used for inoculation of other fermentations, care must be taken to prevent mutations from occurring. Metabolites can be divided into two groups: those produced during the **growth** phase of the organism, called "primary metabolites" and those produced during the stationary phase, called "secondary metabolites". Some examples of primary metabolites are ethanol, citric acid, glut...
202. ...es. Some examples of secondary metabolites are penicillin, cyclosporin A, gibberellin, and lovastatin. Primary metabolites are compounds made during the ordinary metabolism of the organism during the **growth** phase. A common example is ethanol or lactic acid, produced during glycolysis. Citric acid is produced by some strains of "Aspergillus niger" as part of the citric acid cycle to acidify their environ...
203. ...ed into the environment. There is therefore no need to rupture the cells for product recovery. Secondary metabolites are compounds made in the stationary phase; penicillin, for instance, prevents the **growth** of bacteria which could compete with "Penicillium" molds for resources. Some bacteria, such as "Lactobacillus" species, are able to produce bacteriocins which prevent the growth of bacterial competit...
204. ...nstance, prevents the growth of bacteria which could compete with "Penicillium" molds for resources. Some bacteria, such as "Lactobacillus" species, are able to produce bacteriocins which prevent the **growth** of bacterial competitors as well. These compounds are of obvious value to humans wishing to prevent the growth of bacteria, either as antibiotics or as antiseptics (such as gramicidin S). Fungicides,...
205. ...ria, such as "Lactobacillus" species, are able to produce bacteriocins which prevent the growth of bacterial competitors as well. These compounds are of obvious value to humans wishing to prevent the **growth** of bacteria, either as antibiotics or as antiseptics (such as gramicidin S). Fungicides, such as griseofulvin are also produced as secondary metabolites. Typically secondary metabolites are not produ...
206. ...Fungicides, such as griseofulvin are also produced as secondary metabolites. Typically secondary metabolites are not produced in the presence of glucose or other carbon sources which would encourage **growth**, and like primary metabolites are released into the surrounding medium without rupture of the cell membrane. In the early days of the biotechnology industry, most biopharmaceutical products were made...
207. ...ng of salvageable components as well as the proper treatment and disposal of waste. It is an essential step in the manufacture of pharmaceuticals such as antibiotics, hormones (e.g. insulin and human **growth** hormone), antibodies (e.g. infliximab and abciximab) and vaccines; antibodies and enzymes used in diagnostics; industrial enzymes; and natural fragrance and flavor compounds. Downstream processing is...
208. ...due to a lack of public support. In the decades following Medicare's passage, prescription drug spending grew and became increasingly financed through third-party payment. Following an era of modest **growth**, per capita drug spending began growing rapidly in the 1980s. This growth was partially spurred by the launch of many billion dollar “blockbuster drugs” like Lipitor, Celebrex, and Zoloft. At the tim...
209. ...age, prescription drug spending grew and became increasingly financed through third-party payment. Following an era of modest growth, per capita drug spending began growing rapidly in the 1980s. This **growth** was partially spurred by the launch of many billion dollar “blockbuster drugs” like Lipitor, Celebrex, and Zoloft. At the time of Medicare's passage, more than 90% of drug spending was paid out-of-po...
210. ...r "TRIPS Agreement") and the lack of Chinese pharmaceutical R&D have also left gaps in the market. The domestic pharmaceutical industry has been a key contributor to the country's impressive economic **growth**. As one of the world's major producers of pharmaceuticals, the sector achieved an annual compound growth rate of 16.7% between 1978 and 2003. Both far outpaced other economies in the world, making Ch...
211. ...mestic pharmaceutical industry has been a key contributor to the country's impressive economic growth. As one of the world's major producers of pharmaceuticals, the sector achieved an annual compound **growth** rate of 16.7% between 1978 and 2003. Both far outpaced other economies in the world, making China the world's fastest growing pharmaceutical market. Although China has enjoyed the benefits of an expa...
212. ...cal firms are located in the southeastern zone that includes two well-developed areas and three under-developed areas. The two most popular areas of well-developed pharmaceutical industry, called the **growth** poles, are the Eastern China zone of which Zhejiang province is located in the centre and the South China zone represented by the Guangdong province. The total output value of these two provinces acc...
213. ...dly still developing. The most desirable strategy has been, therefore, to concentrate on the regional pharmaceutical industries. There are three main reasons for this strategy: high profitability and **growth** of the pharmaceutical industry, unnecessary political competition among regions, and excessive exploitation of regional administrative power. (Hu Yuanjia; 2007) The pharmaceutical industry is always...
214. ...igh-return and rapidly growing industry. After the Chinese market was reformed, China gradually makes space for a healthy, steady and rapidly developing pharmaceutical industry, where profit rate and **growth** rate are much higher than in other industries. In the view of high profit returns, regional governments often allow excessive development of regional medicine industries without careful analysis of r...
215. ...ental funds are available to promote this type of entrepreneurship. During the past several years, some Chinese pharmaceutical companies began to establish R&D infrastructures largely due to internal **growth** needs, but their primary focus is directed toward improving existing technologies or developing generic version of new drugs. Companies to expand research efforts in China include GlaxoSmithKline, Ba...
216. ...ion. The overall goal has been to improve manufacturing and distribution efficiencies, strengthen drug safety supervision, and separate hospitals from the drug retailing business. With the increasing **growth** of the Chinese pharmaceutical market, the government realised the importance of supervision of pharmaceutical market. They put forward several regulations and reform measures over the past couple of...
217. ...for manufacturing traditional Chinese medicines, medical packaging manufacturing requirements, and medical device manufacturing requirement. The new laws will likely have an adverse effect on market **growth** and profitability during the transitional period, but over the next 5–10 years this market should be able to provide the returns. In order to alleviate the burden of medical expenses on the society a...
218. ...statistics released by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. In the first 11 months of last year, the medicine sector's combined net profit was RMB 89.6 billion, up 25.9% year on year. **Growth** in the period was only 16.2% in the period from January to August. There are two types of end users for in China: hospitals and retail pharmaceutical franchising stores. According to a 2004 sample in...
219. ...f which was conducted without muscle relaxants and both of which often caused the patient great physical and psychological injury. The field now known as neuropsychopharmacology has resulted from the **growth** and extension of many previously isolated fields which have met at the core of psychiatric medicine, and engages a broad range of professionals from psychiatrists to researchers in genetics and chemi...
220. ...are potent iron chelators and radical scavengers. Apomorphine also decreases the breakdown of dopamine in the brain (though it inhibits its synthesis as well). It is an upregulator of certain neural **growth** factors, in particular NGF but not BDNF, epigenetic downregulation of which has been associated with addictive behaviour in rats. Apomorphine causes vomiting by acting on dopamine receptors in the ch...
221. ...s one of the major modalities of medical treatment (pharmacotherapy) for cancer, others being hormonal therapy and cytotoxic chemotherapy. As a form of molecular medicine, targeted therapy blocks the **growth** of cancer cells by interfering with specific targeted molecules needed for carcinogenesis and tumor growth, rather than by simply interfering with all rapidly dividing cells (e.g. with traditional ch...
222. ...apy and cytotoxic chemotherapy. As a form of molecular medicine, targeted therapy blocks the growth of cancer cells by interfering with specific targeted molecules needed for carcinogenesis and tumor **growth**, rather than by simply interfering with all rapidly dividing cells (e.g. with traditional chemotherapy). Because most agents for targeted therapy are biopharmaceuticals, the term "biologic therapy" i...
223. ...se toxins reduces the survival of non-parasitised caterpillars. These three findings are all consistent with the adaptive plasticity theory. The tobacco hornworm ingests nicotine which reduces colony **growth** and toxicity of "Bacillus thuringiensis", leading to increased survival of the hornworm. Ants infected with "Beauveria bassiana", a fungus, selectively consume harmful substances (reactive oxygen spe...
224. ...n is the group or the colony. Wood ants ("Formica paralugubris") often incorporate large quantities of solidified conifer resin into their nests. Laboratory studies have shown this resin inhibits the **growth** of bacteria and fungi in a context mimicking natural conditions. The ants show a strong preference for resin over twigs and stones, which are building materials commonly available in their environmen...
225. ...mals lay their eggs in such a way that their offspring are the target of the medication. Adult monarch butterflies preferentially lay their eggs on toxic plants such as milkweed which reduce parasite **growth** and disease in their offspring caterpillars. This has been termed "transgenerational therapeutic medication". When detecting endoparasitoid wasps, fruit flies ("Drosophila melanogaster") lay their eg...
226. ...reased risk for second malignancy. Dose-dense chemotherapy (DDC) has recently emerged as an effective method of adjuvant chemotherapy administration. DDC uses the Gompertz curve to explain tumor cell **growth** after initial surgery removes most of the tumor mass. Cancer cells that are left over after a surgery are typically rapidly dividing cells, leaving them the most vulnerable to chemotherapy. Standard...
227. ...on. DDC tries to circumvent this issue by giving chemotherapy every 2 weeks. To lessen the side effects of chemotherapy that can be exacerbated with more closely administered chemotherapy treatments, **growth** factors are typically given in conjunction with DDC to restore white blood cell counts. A recent 2018 meta-analysis of DDC clinical trials in early stage breast cancer patients indicated promising re...
228. ...ibit a heightened demand for iron, fueling their transition towards a more invasive mesenchymal state. This iron is necessary for the expression of mesenchymal genes, like those encoding transforming **growth** factor beta (TGF-β), crucial for EMT. Notably, iron’s unique ability to catalyze protein and DNA demethylation plays a vital role in this gene expression process. Conventional iron uptake pathways, s...
229. ...ventional iron uptake pathways, such as those using the transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1), often prove insufficient to meet these elevated iron demands in cancer cells. As a result, various cytokines and **growth** factors trigger the upregulation of CD44, a surface molecule capable of internalizing iron bound to the hyaluronan complex. This alternative pathway, relying on CD44-mediated endocytosis, becomes the...
230. ...acies in Europe. A mortar and pestle is a more common symbol in the United States.  Leukemia inhibitory factor Leukemia inhibitory factor, or LIF, is an interleukin 6 class cytokine that affects cell **growth** by inhibiting differentiation. When LIF levels drop, the cells differentiate. LIF derives its name from its ability to induce the terminal differentiation of myeloid leukemic cells, thus preventing t...
231. ...differentiation. When LIF levels drop, the cells differentiate. LIF derives its name from its ability to induce the terminal differentiation of myeloid leukemic cells, thus preventing their continued **growth**. Other properties attributed to the cytokine include: the growth promotion and cell differentiation of different types of target cells, influence on bone metabolism, cachexia, neural development, emb...
232. ...IF derives its name from its ability to induce the terminal differentiation of myeloid leukemic cells, thus preventing their continued growth. Other properties attributed to the cytokine include: the **growth** promotion and cell differentiation of different types of target cells, influence on bone metabolism, cachexia, neural development, embryogenesis and inflammation. p53 regulated LIF has been shown to...
233. ...cells back to naive pluripotency through the addition of LIF. Removal of LIF pushes stem cells toward differentiation, however genetic manipulation of embryonic stem cells allows for LIF independent **growth**, notably overexpression of the gene Nanog. LIF is typically added to stem cell culture medium to reduce spontaneous differentiation. Phospholipidosis Phospholipidosis is a lysosomal storage disorder...
234. ...micals manually as required to suit the required water quality. Most commonly inhibitors will be added to protect the pipework and components against corrosion, or a biocide will be added to stop the **growth** of bacteria in lower temperature systems. The required chemicals will be added to the fluid system by use of a dosing pot; a multi-valved chamber in which the chemical can be added, and then introduc...
235. ...evelopment of methods allowing the measurement of the protein's function in the patch-clamp system using artificial membranes. In 1968, Lusk described the limitation of bacterial ("Escherichia coli") **growth** on Mg-poor media, suggesting that bacteria required Mg and were likely to actively take this ion from the environment. The following year, the same group and another group, Silver, independently desc...
236. ...S. typhimurium" containing a functional CorA gene but lacking MgtA and MgtB was constructed(also see below), and the uptake kinetics of the transporter were analysed. This strain showed nearly normal **growth** rates on standard media (50 μM Mg), but the removal of all three genes created a bacterial strain requiring 100 mM external Mg for normal growth. Mg is transported into cells containing only the CorA...
237. ...porter were analysed. This strain showed nearly normal growth rates on standard media (50 μM Mg), but the removal of all three genes created a bacterial strain requiring 100 mM external Mg for normal **growth**. Mg is transported into cells containing only the CorA transport system with similar kinetics and cation sensitivities as the Mg uptake described in the earlier papers, and has additionally been quan...
238. ...irst identified by Smith "et al." (1995) during a screen for CorA-like proteins in bacteria and complements the Mg-uptake-deficient "S. typhimurium" strain MM281 (corA mgtA mgtB), restoring wild type **growth** on standard media. The kinetics of Mg transport for the protein were not determined, as Mg was unavailable. As a substitute, the uptake of Co was measured and was shown to have a km of 82 μM and a Vm...
239. ...were isolated in a screen for Al tolerance (resistance) in yeast. Over-expression constructs containing yeast genomic DNA were introduced into wild type yeast and the transformants were screened for **growth** on toxic levels of Al. ALR1 and ALR2 containing plasmids allowed the growth of yeast in these conditions. The Alr1p and Alr2p proteins consist of 859 and 858 amino acids respectively and are 70% iden...
240. ...ession constructs containing yeast genomic DNA were introduced into wild type yeast and the transformants were screened for growth on toxic levels of Al. ALR1 and ALR2 containing plasmids allowed the **growth** of yeast in these conditions. The Alr1p and Alr2p proteins consist of 859 and 858 amino acids respectively and are 70% identical. In a region in the C-terminal, half of these proteins are weakly simi...
241. ...sting that the activity of the protein is regulated directly, as was observed for some bacterial CorA proteins. A functional Alr1p (wild type) or Alr2p (overexpressed) is required for "S. cerevisiae" **growth** in standard conditions (4 mM Mg), and Alr1p can support normal growth at Mg concentrations as low as 30 μM. Co is taken up into yeast via the Alr1p protein with a km of 77 – 105 μM (; C. MacDiarmid a...
242. ...bserved for some bacterial CorA proteins. A functional Alr1p (wild type) or Alr2p (overexpressed) is required for "S. cerevisiae" growth in standard conditions (4 mM Mg), and Alr1p can support normal **growth** at Mg concentrations as low as 30 μM. Co is taken up into yeast via the Alr1p protein with a km of 77 – 105 μM (; C. MacDiarmid and R. C. Gardner, unpublished data), but the Ki for Mg inhibition of t...
243. ...d and R. C. Gardner, unpublished data), but the Ki for Mg inhibition of this transport is currently unknown. The transport of other cations by the Alr1p protein was assayed by the inhibition of yeast **growth**. The overexpression of Alr1p led to increased sensitivity to Ca, Co, Cu, La, Mn, Ni and Zn, an array of cations similar to those shown to be transported into yeast by a CorA-like transport system. Th...
244. ...ely related to the Alr proteins, but includes conserved features that define a distinct subgroup of CorA proteins in fungal genomes, suggesting a distinct role in Mg homeostasis. Like an alr1 mutant, **growth** of an mnr2 mutant was sensitive to Mg-deficient conditions, but the mnr2 mutant was observed to accumulate more Mg than a wild-type strain under these conditions. These phenotypes suggested that Mnr2...
245. ...f the particles ⟨R⟩, grows as follows: where Note that the quantity is different from , and that the statement that ⟨R⟩ goes as relies on being zero; but because nucleation is a separate process from **growth**, this places outside the bounds of validity of the equation. In contexts where the actual value of is irrelevant, an approach that respects the meanings of all terms is to take the time derivative of...
246. ...iments and simulations have shown LSW theory to be robust and accurate. Even some systems that undergo spinodal decomposition have been shown to quantitatively obey LSW theory after initial stages of **growth**. Wagner derived that when attachment and detachment of molecules is slower than diffusion, then the growth rate becomes where is the reaction rate constant of attachment with units of length per time...
247. ...odal decomposition have been shown to quantitatively obey LSW theory after initial stages of growth. Wagner derived that when attachment and detachment of molecules is slower than diffusion, then the **growth** rate becomes where is the reaction rate constant of attachment with units of length per time. Since the average radius is usually something that can be measured in experiments, it is fairly easy to t...
248. ...ity of the monomer in the continuous (water) phase of the emulsion. This can lead to the destabilization of emulsions (for example, by creaming and sedimentation). Inhibition of sulfathiazole crystal **growth** by polyvinylpyrrolidone. The polymer forms a noncondensed netlike film over the sulfathiazole crystal, allowing the crystal to grow out only through the openings of the net. The growth is thus contro...
249. ...iazole crystal growth by polyvinylpyrrolidone. The polymer forms a noncondensed netlike film over the sulfathiazole crystal, allowing the crystal to grow out only through the openings of the net. The **growth** is thus controlled by the pore size of the polymer network at the crystal surface. The smaller the pore size, the higher is the supersaturation of the solution required for the crystals to grow. One...
250. ...ating a coarser texture. Another gastronomical example is the ouzo effect, where the droplets in the cloudy microemulsion grow by Ostwald ripening. In geology, it is the textural coarsening, aging or **growth** of phenocrysts and crystals in solid rock which is below the solidus temperature. It is often ascribed as a process in the formation of orthoclase megacrysts, as an alternative to the physical proces...
251. ...ystals in solid rock which is below the solidus temperature. It is often ascribed as a process in the formation of orthoclase megacrysts, as an alternative to the physical processes governing crystal **growth** from nucleation and growth rate thermochemical limitations. In aqueous solution chemistry and precipitates ageing, the term refers to the growth of larger crystals from those of smaller size which ha...
252. ...is below the solidus temperature. It is often ascribed as a process in the formation of orthoclase megacrysts, as an alternative to the physical processes governing crystal growth from nucleation and **growth** rate thermochemical limitations. In aqueous solution chemistry and precipitates ageing, the term refers to the growth of larger crystals from those of smaller size which have a higher solubility than...
253. ...lternative to the physical processes governing crystal growth from nucleation and growth rate thermochemical limitations. In aqueous solution chemistry and precipitates ageing, the term refers to the **growth** of larger crystals from those of smaller size which have a higher solubility than the larger ones. In the process, many small crystals formed initially ("nuclei") slowly disappear, except for a few t...
254. ...er solubility than the larger ones. In the process, many small crystals formed initially ("nuclei") slowly disappear, except for a few that grow larger, at the expense of the small crystals ("crystal **growth**"). The smaller crystals act as fuel for the growth of bigger crystals. Limiting Ostwald ripening is fundamental in modern technology for the solution synthesis of quantum dots. Ostwald ripening is al...
255. ...many small crystals formed initially ("nuclei") slowly disappear, except for a few that grow larger, at the expense of the small crystals ("crystal growth"). The smaller crystals act as fuel for the **growth** of bigger crystals. Limiting Ostwald ripening is fundamental in modern technology for the solution synthesis of quantum dots. Ostwald ripening is also the key process in the digestion and aging of pr...
256. ...iffusing from small droplets to large ones through the continuous phase. When a miniemulsion is desired, an extremely hydrophobic compound is added to stop this process from taking place. Diffusional **growth** of larger drops in liquid water clouds in the atmosphere at the expense of smaller drops is also characterized as Ostwald ripening. William McLaren Bristol William McLaren Bristol (28July 18601935) w...
257. ...r example, REDCap Cloud data capture systems to allow export of a study in ODM. American Society of Pharmacognosy The American Society of Pharmacognosy (ASP) is a scientific society that promotes the **growth** and development of pharmacognosy through presentation of research achievements and publication of meritorious research. ASP was founded in 1959 as an outgrowth of the Plant Science Seminar establishe...
258. ...that MSCs when transfused immediately within few hours post thawing may show reduced function or show decreased efficacy in treating diseases as compared to those MSCs which are in log phase of cell **growth** (fresh), so cryopreserved MSCs should be brought back into log phase of cell growth in "in vitro" culture before administration. Re-culturing of MSCs will help in recovering from the shock the cells...
259. ...d function or show decreased efficacy in treating diseases as compared to those MSCs which are in log phase of cell growth (fresh), so cryopreserved MSCs should be brought back into log phase of cell **growth** in "in vitro" culture before administration. Re-culturing of MSCs will help in recovering from the shock the cells get during freezing and thawing. Various MSC clinical trials which used cryopreserve...
260. ...air via five primary mechanisms: 1) providing an anti-inflammatory effect, 2) homing to damaged tissues and recruiting other cells, such as endothelial progenitor cells, that are necessary for tissue **growth**, 3) supporting tissue remodeling over scar formation, 4) inhibiting apoptosis, and 5) differentiating into bone, cartilage, tendon, and ligament tissue. To further enrich blood supply to the damaged...
261. ...gous bone marrow stem cells, but other types of adult stem cells may be used, such as adipose-derived stem cells. Possible mechanisms of recovery include:Generation of heart muscle cells, Stimulating **growth** of new blood vessels to repopulate damaged heart tissue and secretion of growth factors. The specificity of the human immune-cell repertoire is what allows the human body to defend itself from rapidl...
262. ...ch as adipose-derived stem cells. Possible mechanisms of recovery include:Generation of heart muscle cells, Stimulating growth of new blood vessels to repopulate damaged heart tissue and secretion of **growth** factors. The specificity of the human immune-cell repertoire is what allows the human body to defend itself from rapidly adapting antigens. However, the immune system is vulnerable to degradation upo...
263. ...h are precursors of red blood cells. In this process, HSCs are grown together with stromal cells, creating an environment that mimics the conditions of bone marrow, the natural site of red-blood-cell **growth**. Erythropoietin, a growth factor, is added, coaxing the stem cells to complete terminal differentiation into red blood cells. Further research into this technique should have potential benefits for g...
264. ...ood cells. In this process, HSCs are grown together with stromal cells, creating an environment that mimics the conditions of bone marrow, the natural site of red-blood-cell growth. Erythropoietin, a **growth** factor, is added, coaxing the stem cells to complete terminal differentiation into red blood cells. Further research into this technique should have potential benefits for gene therapy, blood transfu...
265. ...ry, and musculoskeletal disorders, among others. Other areas of orthopedic research for uses of MSCs include tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. Stem cells can also be used to stimulate the **growth** of human tissues. In an adult, wounded tissue is most often replaced by scar tissue, which is characterized in the skin by disorganized collagen structure, loss of hair follicles and irregular vascul...
266. ...in synthesis, the new stream of revenues and the significant amount of media coverage meant that Genentech could pursue other research projects. By 1979, Genentech had projects on interferons, animal **growth** hormones, hepatitis B vaccines, and the hormone thymosin. By 1980, Swanson decided that they should raise money by making Genentech public. This was due to a variety of factors. Genentech needed more...
267. ...ed as his honeymoon. From here on, Swanson would focus on pursuing his vision of Genentech as a self sustainable biotechnology company, not a contract research operation. He believed that recombinant **growth** hormones had a large market in the United States, and that they would be key for Genentech's corporate evolution. By October 18, 1985, the FDA approved the human growth hormone, developed almost enti...
268. .... He believed that recombinant growth hormones had a large market in the United States, and that they would be key for Genentech's corporate evolution. By October 18, 1985, the FDA approved the human **growth** hormone, developed almost entirely by Genentech, for sale in the United States, under the commercial name Protropin. In just two decades, Protropin sales exceeded $2 billion. Genentech had been able...
269. ...rgy of de-mixing in regards to composition (formula_5), the spinodal curve is defined. The conditions of the mixture in comparison to the two curves defines the phase separation mechanism: nucleation-**growth** of coacervate droplets (when the binodal region is crossed slowly) and spinodal decomposition. Associative LLPS is more complex to describe, as both solute polymers are present in the dilute and dens...
270. ...t. Joseph Beecham Sir Joseph Beecham, 1st Baronet (8 June 1848 – 23 October 1916) was a British businessman. Beecham was the eldest son of Thomas Beecham and Jane Evans. He played a large part in the **growth** and expansion of his father's medicinal pill business which he joined in 1866. He was responsible for Beechams' factory and office in Westfield Street, St. Helens, being built in 1885. A factory was...
271. ...alls. Likewise, some holoplanktonic protozoa (Radiolaria), some sponges, and some plants (leaf phytoliths) use silicon as a structural material. Silicon is known to be required by chicks and rats for **growth** and skeletal development. Silicon is in human connective tissues, bones, teeth, skin, eyes, glands and organs. Silicate, or silicic acid (HSiO), is an important nutrient in the ocean. Unlike the othe...
272. ..." aggregation. Aggregation can be enhanced through shear stress (e.g., stirring). The latter case is called "orthokinetic" aggregation. As the aggregation process continues, larger clusters form. The **growth** occurs mainly through encounters between different clusters, and therefore one refers to cluster-cluster aggregation process. The resulting clusters are irregular, but statistically self-similar. The...
273. ...ictures as another, much larger particle. Later stages may reflect blocking of the substrate through repulsive interactions between the particles, while attractive interactions may lead to multilayer **growth**, and is also referred to as ripening. These phenomena are relevant in membrane or filter fouling. Numerous experimental techniques have been developed to study particle aggregation. Most frequently u...
274. ...ermed 17,18-EEQ). 19-HETE is an inhibitor of 20-HETE, a broadly active signaling molecule, e.g., it constricts arterioles, elevates blood pressure, promotes inflammation responses, and stimulates the **growth** of various types of tumor cells; however the in vivo ability and significance of 19-HETE in inhibiting 20-HETE has not been demonstrated. The EDP (epoxydocosapentaenoic acid) and EEQ (epoxyeicosatetr...
275. ...n animal and human tissues, they decrease hypertension and pain perception; suppress inflammation; inhibit angiogenesis, endothelial cell migration and endothelial cell proliferation; and inhibit the **growth** and metastasis of human breast and prostate cancer cell lines. It is suggested that the EDP and EEQ metabolites function in humans as they do in animal models and that, as products of the omega-3 fat...
276. ...icipated events occurred in his laboratory during his summer vacation. The "Penicillium" mold on the petri dish was believed to secrete a substance (later named "penicillin") that inhibited bacterial **growth**. Large pharmaceutical companies then started to establish their microbiological departments and search for new antibiotics. The screening program for antimicrobial compounds also led to the discovery...
277. ...ound in 1942, penicillin was the first naturally-derived antibiotic. Ancient societies used moulds to treat infections, and in the following centuries many people observed the inhibition of bacterial **growth** by moulds. While working at St Mary's Hospital in London in 1928, Scottish physician Alexander Fleming was the first to experimentally determine that a "Penicillium" mould secretes an antibacterial s...
278. ...cultivation of mould remains the primary means of production. It was discovered that adding penicillin to animal feed increased weight gain, improved feed-conversion efficiency, promoted more uniform **growth** and facilitated disease control. Agriculture became a major user of penicillin. Shortly after their discovery of penicillin, the Oxford team reported penicillin resistance in many bacteria. Research...
279. ...chnique was mentioned by Henryk Sienkiewicz in his 1884 novel "With Fire and Sword". In 1871, Sir John Scott Burdon-Sanderson reported that culture fluid covered with mould would produce no bacterial **growth**. Joseph Lister, an English surgeon and the father of modern antisepsis, observed in November 1871 that urine samples contaminated with mould also did not permit the growth of bacteria. He also descri...
280. ...would produce no bacterial growth. Joseph Lister, an English surgeon and the father of modern antisepsis, observed in November 1871 that urine samples contaminated with mould also did not permit the **growth** of bacteria. He also described the antibacterial action on human tissue of "Penicillium glaucum" but did not publish his results. In 1875 John Tyndall demonstrated to the Royal Society the antibacter...
281. ...esearch, most species of "Penicillium" were non-specifically referred to as "P. glaucum", so that it is impossible to know the exact species and that it was really penicillin that prevented bacterial **growth**. Andre Gratia and Sara Dath at the Free University of Brussels studied the effects of mould samples on bacteria. In 1924, they found that dead "Staphylococcus aureus" cultures were contaminated by a...
282. ...edical value were not fully understood, and Gratia's samples were lost. While working at St Mary's Hospital, London in 1928, Alexander Fleming, a Scottish physician was investigating the variation of **growth** in cultures of "S. aureus". In August, he spent the summer break with his family at his country home The Dhoon at Barton Mills, Suffolk. Before leaving his laboratory, he inoculated several culture p...
283. ...he plates developed large colonies of the mould. He repeated the experiment with the same bacteria-killing results. He concluded that the mould was releasing a substance that was inhibiting bacterial **growth**. On testing against different bacteria, he found that the mould could kill only certain Gram-positive bacteria. "Staphylococcus", "Streptococcus", and diphtheria bacillus ("Corynebacterium diphtheria...
284. ...e" the bacteria began to grow, because penicillin is only effective on bacteria when they are reproducing. Fortuitously, the temperature in the laboratory during that August was optimum first for the **growth** of the mould, below 20°C, and later in the month for the bacteria, when it reached 25°C. Had Fleming not left the cultures on his laboratory bench and put them in an incubator, the phenomenon would n...
285. ...bacteria. She also found that unlike sulphonamides, the first and only effective broad-spectrum antibiotic available at the time, it was not destroyed by pus. Medawar found that it did not affect the **growth** of tissue cells. By March 1940 the Oxford team had sufficient impure penicillin to commence testing whether it was toxic. Over the next two months, Florey and Jennings conducted a series of experimen...
286. ...ork on penicillin with Heatley, while Florey left to see if he could arrange for a pharmaceutical company to manufacture penicillin. As a first step to increasing yield, Moyer replaced sucrose in the **growth** media with lactose. An even larger increase occurred when Moyer added corn steep liquor, a byproduct of the corn industry that the NRRL routinely tried in the hope of finding more uses for it. The ef...
287. ...for this were still subject to debate in the twenty-first century. Subsequent research indicated that adding penicillin to animal feed also improved feed conversion efficiency, promoted more uniform **growth** and facilitated disease control. After the Food and Drug Administration approved the use of penicillin as feed additives for poultry and livestock in 1951, the pharmaceutical companies ramped up prod...
288. ...antibiotics in animals for nontherapeutic use was banned there in 1971. Many other European countries soon followed. When Sweden acceded to the European Union (EU) in 1995, a total ban on antibiotic **growth** promoters (AGPs) had been in place there for ten years. This would be superseded by more relaxed EU rules unless Sweden could demonstrate scientific evidence in favour of a ban. Two Swedish scientist...
289. ...zation of surfaces in tissue engineering has pushed towards implantation. Under appropriate conditions, a carefully crafted 3-dimensional scaffold is used to direct cell seeds toward artificial organ **growth**. The 3-D scaffold incorporates various nanoscale factors that control the environment for optimal and appropriate functionality. The scaffold is an analog of the "in vivo" extracellular matrix "in vi...
290. ...le factors that control the environment for optimal and appropriate functionality. The scaffold is an analog of the "in vivo" extracellular matrix "in vitro", allowing for successful artificial organ **growth** by providing the necessary, complex biological factors "in vitro". For abrasions and wounds, nanochemistry has demonstrated applications in improving the healing process. Electrospinning is a polymer...
291. ...trients. The activity of key enzymes in the sulfur assimilation pathway is also regulated by feedback inhibition from downstream products, similar to the regulation seen in plants. The rapid economic **growth**, industrialization and urbanization are associated with a strong increase in energy demand and emissions of air pollutants including sulfur dioxide (see also acid rain) and hydrogen sulfide, which ma...
292. ...the dose can be administered when recalled. Additionally if it is close to the next dose, skip that missed dose and resume as normal. Although ear drops typically contain preservatives that slow the **growth** of bacteria and other microorganisms, this does not offer long term protection from contamination. The shelf life of ear drops varies with products generally needing to be discarded within 4 weeks af...
293. ...sk factors include retained water in the outer ear, particularly due to swimming, humidity, trauma or external devices, dermatologic conditions, or scratching the ear canal that may lead to bacterial **growth**. Otitis externa can generally be prevented by keeping the ear canal dry and/or applying ear drops labeled for swimmer's ear (typically a dilution of isopropyl and glycerin) after exposure to water to...
294. ...de effects and do not inhibit all forms of T. gondii. An "in vitro" study by Sharma et al. suggests that Turkey Tail mushroom extract could be used to treat Toxoplasmosis since it inhibited T. gondii **growth**. Pestalone is an antibiotic created from the marine fungus: "Pestalotia sp". M. Cueto et al. (2001–11) found that it has antibiotic activity against two bacteria species that have gained resistance t...
295. ...nown. Once the modulators have been identified, they will be used as tools to look for the protein responsible for the phenotype. For example, a loss-of-function phenotype could be an arrest of tumor **growth**. Once compounds that lead to a target phenotype have been identified, identifying the gene and protein targets should be the next step. The main challenge of forward chemogenomics strategy lies in de...
296. ...ponsible for the amidation of dipthine to diphthamide remained a mystery. The researchers capitalized on Saccharomyces cerevisiae cofitness data. Cofitness data is data representing the similarity of **growth** fitness under various conditions between any two different deletion strains. Under the assumption that strains lacking the diphthamide synthetase gene should have high cofitness with strain lacking o...
297. ...nt packages and different doses for different applications. The price for some applications may be very different from that for other purposes. One example is Minoxidil, which is well known as a hair-**growth** stimulant; the same drug under the name Loniten is used for blood pressure control in much larger doses at a much lower price per unit weight. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has called pill s...
298. ...uring it in place. A DES is different from other types of stents in that it has a coating that delivers medication directly into the blood vessel wall. The stent slowly releases a drug to prevent the **growth** of scar tissue and new obstructive plaque material which caused the original blood vessel stenosis, this clogging of a stent is termed restenosis. A DES is fully integrated with a catheter delivery s...
299. ...he arterial narrowing that can occur after stent implantation. These drugs are also used for other purposes, that involve moderating the immune system or treating cancer. They work by inhibiting cell **growth**. In DES, they are used in very small amounts and for a short time, and only in the area where the stent is placed. There is a distinction between coronary stents and peripheral stents. While both are...
300. ...ould not have been used. When restenosis occurs, another procedure may be needed to correct the problem, such as the placement of a DES that gradually release a drug compound that suppresses cellular **growth**, thereby reducing the potential for blockage within the stent area itself. This therapy significantly reduces the occurrence of adverse events post-stenting. Technically, a DES in a mesh tube implant...
301. ...y arteries, where the narrowing is primarily caused by atherosclerosis. Stents are then expanded to open up the narrowed artery. Such stents gradually release a drug compound that suppresses cellular **growth**, into the newly stented area, thereby reducing the potential for blockage within the stent area itself. Such blockage is termed in-stent restenosis (ISR). This in-stent blockage is most often caused...
302. ...ons are included in submissions for approval to regulatory authorities such as the US FDA: The drug choice is a critical design element and determining its true effectiveness in inhibiting neointimal **growth** due to the proliferation of smooth muscle cells that would cause restenosis can be a design challenge. Much of the neointimal hyperplasia seems to be caused by inflammation. Vascular stents are class...
303. ...thrombosis. Though it occurred less frequently than with balloon angioplasty or other techniques, stents nonetheless remained vulnerable to restenosis, caused almost exclusively by neointimal tissue **growth** (tissue formation in the inner 'tube' structure of the artery). To address this issue, developers of drug-eluting stents used the devices themselves as a tool for delivering medication directly to th...
304. ...ocally, directly at the target lesion, with minimal systemic side effects. As currently used in clinical practice, "drug-eluting" stents refers to metal stents that elute a drug designed to limit the **growth** of neointimal scar tissue, thus reducing the likelihood of stent restenosis. The first type of DES to be approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)...
305. ...native solution. Scientists are also studying different drugs that could be used in DES to prevent restenosis. These drugs, which have immunosuppressive and anti-cancer properties, aim to inhibit the **growth** of smooth muscle cells. Additionally, there is a specific type of stent that features an extra layer of anti-CD4 antibodies on its struts. This additional layer is positioned on top of the polymer co...
306. ...these microspheres became more complex, they would carry on more lifelike functions. They would become heterotrophs, organisms with the ability to absorb nutrients from the environment for energy and **growth**. As the amount of nutrients in the environment decreased at that period, competition for those precious resources increased. Heterotrophs with more complex biochemical reactions would have an advanta...
307. ...ganisms or immobilize prey. In addition, many drugs are small molecule enzyme inhibitors that target either disease-modifying enzymes in the patient or enzymes in pathogens which are required for the **growth** and reproduction of the pathogen. In addition to small molecules, some proteins act as enzyme inhibitors. The most prominent example are serpins (serine protease inhibitors) which are produced by ani...
308. ...n proteins act by knocking them out chemically. This would be most useful for gene where knock out mice (missing one or several genes) can not be made because the protein is required for development, **growth** or otherwise lethal when it is not there. Chemical knock out could address how and where these genes work. Further the technology is used in combination with RNAi to identify sets of genes involved i...
309. ...systems level models and simulations of how cells and organisms function. Systems biology models of cell function would permit prediction of why, where and how the cell responds to external changes, **growth** and disease. High-content screening technology allows for the evaluation of multiple biochemical and morphological parameters in intact biological systems. For cell-based approaches the utility of au...
310. ...solutions of HCl or NaOH to form the final Ag foam. This creates the nanoscale pores of the foam. Silver ions have been shown to have potent antibacterial activity, and have been shown to affect the **growth** of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. This is due to their ability to form ligand complexes with proteins or enzymes in bacterial cells. Due to this unique property, these nanofoams create exc...
311. ...used for the synthesis of carbon nanofoam, and is considered one of the most versatile approach for the production of carbon nanofoams with controlled density and morphology. The process of nanofoam **growth** via the Pulsed Laser Deposition has been described in terms of a "snowfall-like" mechanism: (i) Carbon nanoparticles are generated upon laser ablation of a graphite target, either directly of because...
312. ...ations into biometals and their effects date back to the 19th century and even further back to the 18th century with the identification of iron in blood. Zinc was identified to be essential in fungal **growth** of yeast as shown by Jules Raulin in 1869 yet no proof for the need of zinc in human cells was shown until the late 1930s where its presence was demonstrated in carbonic anhydrase and the 1960s where...
313. ...radicals which are ions that have an unpaired electron in their outer shells. Zinc is the second most abundant transition metal present in living organisms second only to iron. It is critical for the **growth** and survival of cells. In humans, zinc is primarily found in various organs and tissues such as the brain, intestines, pancreas and mammary glands. In prokaryotes, zinc can function as an antimicrobi...
314. ...xide to form hydroxyl radicals. Hydroxyl radicals and other reactive oxygen species when generated near DNA can cause point mutations, cross-linkage and breaks. The second being the bolstering of the **growth** of neoplastic cells by suppressing host defenses. Excessive iron inhibits the activity of CD lymphocytes and suppresses the tumoricidal activity of macrophages. The third way it can act as a carcinog...
315. ...must get through the public’s rage over six-figure price tags for breakthrough drugs and yet keep Pfizer’s pricing power more or less intact. Doing so is absolutely critical: 34% of Pfizer’s revenue **growth** over the past three years has come from increasing prices on existing drugs, according to SSR, a Stamford, Conn.-based consulting firm. New medicines, especially for cancer, are selling for $100,000-...
316. ...mechanism for sonophoresis, the gas bubbles that contribute to cavitation are generated by a process termed rectified diffusion. Rectified diffusion is the process where cavitation bubbles experience **growth**. The growth of these bubbles occurs by encountering a negative pressure half cycle, expanding the gas inside the bubble. Similarly, the gas bubble will dramatically decay in size when encountering th...
317. ...r sonophoresis, the gas bubbles that contribute to cavitation are generated by a process termed rectified diffusion. Rectified diffusion is the process where cavitation bubbles experience growth. The **growth** of these bubbles occurs by encountering a negative pressure half cycle, expanding the gas inside the bubble. Similarly, the gas bubble will dramatically decay in size when encountering the other posi...
318. ...se of living organisms to develop useful products. Biotechnology is often used in pharmaceutical manufacturing. Notable examples include the use of bacteria to produce things such as insulin or human **growth** hormone. Other examples include the use of transgenic pigs for the creation of hemoglobin in use of humans.   Amongst the earliest uses of biotechnology in pharmaceutical manufacturing is the use of...
319. ...of either chain A or chain B human insulin." The two protein chains were then combined to produce insulin molecules. Prior to the use of recombinant DNA technology to modify bacteria to produce human **growth** hormone, the hormone was manufactured by extraction from the pituitary glands of cadavers, as animal growth hormones have no therapeutic value in humans. Production of a single year's supply of human...
320. ...lecules. Prior to the use of recombinant DNA technology to modify bacteria to produce human growth hormone, the hormone was manufactured by extraction from the pituitary glands of cadavers, as animal **growth** hormones have no therapeutic value in humans. Production of a single year's supply of human growth hormone required up to fifty pituitary glands, creating significant shortages of the hormone. In 197...
321. ...hormone, the hormone was manufactured by extraction from the pituitary glands of cadavers, as animal growth hormones have no therapeutic value in humans. Production of a single year's supply of human **growth** hormone required up to fifty pituitary glands, creating significant shortages of the hormone. In 1979, scientists at Genentech produced human growth hormone by inserting DNA coding for human growth h...
322. ...ans. Production of a single year's supply of human growth hormone required up to fifty pituitary glands, creating significant shortages of the hormone. In 1979, scientists at Genentech produced human **growth** hormone by inserting DNA coding for human growth hormone into a plasmid that was implanted in Escherichia coli bacteria. The gene that was inserted into the plasmid was created by reverse transcripti...
323. ...n growth hormone required up to fifty pituitary glands, creating significant shortages of the hormone. In 1979, scientists at Genentech produced human growth hormone by inserting DNA coding for human **growth** hormone into a plasmid that was implanted in Escherichia coli bacteria. The gene that was inserted into the plasmid was created by reverse transcription of the mRNA found in pituitary glands to compl...
324. ...found in pituitary glands to complementary DNA. HaeIII, a type of restriction enzyme which acts at restriction sites "in the 3' noncoding region" and at the 23rd codon in complementary DNA for human **growth** hormone, was used to produce "a DNA fragment of 551 base pairs which includes coding sequences for amino acids 24–191 of HGH." Then "a chemically synthesized DNA 'adaptor' fragment containing an ATG...
325. ...r amino acids 24–191 of HGH." Then "a chemically synthesized DNA 'adaptor' fragment containing an ATG initiation codon..." was produced with the codons for the first through 23rd amino acids in human **growth** hormone. The "two DNA fragments... [were] combined to form a synthetic-natural 'hybrid' gene." The use of entirely synthetic methods of DNA production to produce a gene that would be translated to hu...
326. ...mone. The "two DNA fragments... [were] combined to form a synthetic-natural 'hybrid' gene." The use of entirely synthetic methods of DNA production to produce a gene that would be translated to human **growth** hormone in Escherichia coli would have been exceedingly laborious due to the significant length of the amino acid sequence in human growth hormone. However, if the cDNA reverse transcribed from the m...
327. ...oduction to produce a gene that would be translated to human growth hormone in Escherichia coli would have been exceedingly laborious due to the significant length of the amino acid sequence in human **growth** hormone. However, if the cDNA reverse transcribed from the mRNA for human growth hormone were inserted directly into the plasmid inserted into the Escherichia coli, the bacteria would translate regio...
328. ...cherichia coli would have been exceedingly laborious due to the significant length of the amino acid sequence in human growth hormone. However, if the cDNA reverse transcribed from the mRNA for human **growth** hormone were inserted directly into the plasmid inserted into the Escherichia coli, the bacteria would translate regions of the gene that are not translated in humans, thereby producing a "pre-hormon...
329. ...t to do research in solid state physics, but switched to research on crystal dislocation. His work with William Keith Burton and Nicolás Cabrera was to demonstrate the role dislocations played in the **growth** of crystals.  Apart from crystal defects, his wide-ranging research interests at Bristol included the mechanical properties of polymers, the theory of liquid crystals, the mechanics of the interior o...
330. ...its highest honour, ""in recognition of his fundamental contribution to the theory of crystal morphology, in particular to the source of dislocations and their consequences in interfaces and crystal **growth**; to fundamental understanding of liquid crystals and the concept of disclination; and to the extension of crystallinity concepts to aperiodic crystals."" He married Maita Asche in 1940. EudraVigilanc...
331. ...an important co-product. The produced herbal waters are essentially diluted essential oils at less than 1% concentration (typically 0.02% to 0.05%). Several factors, such as temperature and a herb's **growth** cycle, impact the characteristics of a distillate, and therefore influence the timing of the distillation. Rosemary, for example, should be distilled in the peak of summer before it flowers. 1. Food...
332. ...ill remain behind and will include many of the water-soluble plant pigments and flavonoids. Because hydrosols are produced at high temperatures and are somewhat acidic, they tend to inhibit bacterial **growth** but not fungal growth. They are not sterile, and should be kept refrigerated to preserve freshness. Herbal distillates degrade over time and will degrade faster than essential oils, which are more st...
333. ...will include many of the water-soluble plant pigments and flavonoids. Because hydrosols are produced at high temperatures and are somewhat acidic, they tend to inhibit bacterial growth but not fungal **growth**. They are not sterile, and should be kept refrigerated to preserve freshness. Herbal distillates degrade over time and will degrade faster than essential oils, which are more stable. Small-scale prod...
334. ...y and MINAP (cardiovascular disease) registry. Additionally the dataset became that of choice by the FDA and most major pharma companies. Following the announcement by the chancellor on the "Plan for **Growth**", a commissioned study entitled the "Research Capability Programme" was initiated with the aim of assessing the available research capabilities of the UK and future potential growth areas in this sec...
335. ...on the "Plan for Growth", a commissioned study entitled the "Research Capability Programme" was initiated with the aim of assessing the available research capabilities of the UK and future potential **growth** areas in this sector. An opportunity was identified for the collaboration of the Department of Health and the MHRA in creating a joint research service, based upon consolidating and expanding existin...
336. ...ch service, based upon consolidating and expanding existing independent services. The new service, known as the CPRD has been developed to meet the expectations and criteria outlined by the "Plan for **Growth**". On 29 March 2012, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency and the Department of Health's National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) launched the Clinical Practice Resear...
337. ...rkers through improvement teams, improvement meetings, opportunities for improvement during internal audits, management review, customer feedback and deciding own goals quantized in terms of business **growth**, reducing rejections, utilizing the equipment effectively, etc. To comply with the United States Food and Drug Administration's code FDA 21 CFR 820.100 medical device companies need to establish a CA...
338. ...ritish Columbia, TRIUMF, University of Saskatchewan and Lakehead University. A particular drawback of cyclotron production via (p,2n) on Mo is the significant co-production of Tc. The preferential in-**growth** of this nuclide occurs due to the larger reaction cross-section pathway leading to the ground state, which is almost five times higher at the cross-section maximum in comparison with the metastable o...
339. ...radioactive material, such as of Tc-medronic acid and then scanned with a gamma camera. Medronic acid is a phosphate derivative which can exchange places with bone phosphate in regions of active bone **growth**, so anchoring the radioisotope to that specific region. To view small lesions (less than ) especially in the spine, the SPECT imaging technique may be required, but currently in the United States, mo...
340. ...pect of the response. The experimental units can for example be cell-cultures, tissues, organs or living animals. The biological response may be quantal (e.g. positive/negative) or quantitative (e.g. **growth**). The goal is to relate the response to the dose, usually by interpolation techniques, and in many cases to express the potency/activity of the test preparation(s) relative to a standard of known pot...
341. ...n red) and test preparation (shown in blue) are applied at three dose levels to sensitive microorganisms on a layer of agar in petri dishes. The stronger the dose the larger the zone of inhibition of **growth** of the microorganisms. The biological response formula_36 is in this case the zone of inhibition and the diameter of this zone formula_37 can be used as the measurable response. The doses formula_12...
342. ...over 600 members worldwide joined ASoP within 6 months. In 2012, ASoP evolved to the International Society of Pharmacometrics (ISoP) to reflect the increasing number of international members. ISoP's **growth** continues and the society currently represents over 1000 members from almost 30 countries around the world. Regional groups include PAGE in Europe and PAGANZ in Australia and New Zealand. Pharmacomet...
343. ...to their particle size. For materials that can adopt two or more structures, size-dependent free energy may result in phase stability crossover at certain sizes. Free energy reduction drives crystal **growth** (atom-by-atom or by oriented attachment ), which may again drive the phase transformation due to the change of the relative phase stability at increasing sizes. These processes impact the surface rea...
344. ...phase on many sorts of low-priced substrates like biochar, plant oils, carbohydrates, wastes, etc. High-level production of biosurfactants can be controlled by regulation of environmental factors and **growth** circumstances.  Biosurfactants are usually categorized by their molecular structure. Like synthetic surfactants, they are composed of a hydrophilic moiety made up of amino acids, peptides, (poly)sacc...
345. ...ipopeptides and lipoproteins, and polymeric surfactants as well as particulate surfactants. Common biosurfactants include: Microbial biosurfactants are obtained by including immiscible liquids in the **growth** medium. Potential applications include herbicides and pesticides formulations, detergents, healthcare and cosmetics, pulp and paper, coal, textiles, ceramic processing and food industries, uranium or...
346. ...annabis") was organized in the late 19th century in Lubuko ("The Land of Friendship"). The Bena Diemba were collectivist pacifists that rejected alcohol and herbal medicines in favor of cannabis. The **growth** remained stable until the American Civil War in the 1860s, from which the primary labor force transition from slavery to sharecropping. This compounded with a change in demand, lead to the industrial...
347. ...rters is in hemoglobin – a level that remains constant despite only about one milligram of iron being absorbed each day, because the human body recycles its hemoglobin for the iron content. Microbial **growth** may be assisted by oxidation of iron(II) or by reduction of iron (III). Iron acquisition poses a problem for aerobic organisms because ferric iron is poorly soluble near neutral pH. Thus, these organ...
348. ...of iron importers. Iron plays an essential role in marine systems and can act as a limiting nutrient for planktonic activity. Because of this, too much of a decrease in iron may lead to a decrease in **growth** rates in phytoplanktonic organisms such as diatoms. Iron can also be oxidized by marine microbes under conditions that are high in iron and low in oxygen. Iron can enter marine systems through adjoin...
349. ...d cell for production, production process, purification process, formulation of the therapeutic protein into a drug. After the expiry of the patent of approved recombinant drugs (e.g., insulin, human **growth** hormone, interferons, erythropoietin, monoclonal antibodies and more) any other biotech company can develop and market these biologics (thus called biosimilars). The typical reference product has und...
350. ...lars Action Plan to implement regulations from the BPCI, including limiting the abuse of the Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) system for evergreening and transitioning insulin and human **growth** hormone to regulation as biologics rather than drugs. Vaccination policy <section begin=map/> <section end=map/> A vaccination policy is a health policy adopted in order to prevent the spread of infe...
351. ...don't give any information relating to time-dependent antimicrobial killing (the so-called post antibiotic effect). The post-antibiotic effect (PAE) is defined as persistent suppression of bacterial **growth** after a brief exposure (1 or 2 hours) of bacteria to an antibiotic even in the absence of host defense mechanisms. Factors that affect the duration of the post-antibiotic effect include duration of a...
352. ...y of an antibiotic to induce a PAE is an attractive property since antibiotic concentrations could fall below the MIC for the bacterium yet retain their effectiveness in their ability to suppress the **growth**. Therefore, an antibiotic with PAE would require less frequent administration and it could improve patient adherence with regard to pharmacotherapy. Proposed mechanisms include (1) slow recovery afte...
353. ...1) slow recovery after reversible nonlethal damage to cell structures; (2) persistence of the drug at a binding site or within the periplasmic space; and (3) the need to synthesize new enzymes before **growth** can resume. Most antimicrobials possess significant in vitro PAEs (≥ 1.5 hours) against susceptible gram-positive cocci. Antimicrobials with significant PAEs against susceptible gram-negative bacilli...
354. ...e formation of new blood vessels, plays a major role in the development of a tumor. After a tumor has grown to about the size of a cubic millimeter, its core becomes hypoxic, and it begins to release **growth** factors to recruit new blood vessels that will supply it with oxygen. Inhibiting angiogenesis has been investigated as a means of preventing tumor growth but has not proven to be fully successful, fo...
355. ...ore becomes hypoxic, and it begins to release growth factors to recruit new blood vessels that will supply it with oxygen. Inhibiting angiogenesis has been investigated as a means of preventing tumor **growth** but has not proven to be fully successful, for tumor cells cut off from the blood supply can eventually develop “reactive resistance” to hypoxia. These resistant cancer cells could be killed by chemo...
356. ...t-run health insurances will implement cost containment programs, such as establishing a formulary, to contain the cost.  In the United Kingdom, the government negotiates an overall cap on drugs bill **growth** with the pharmaceutical industry. In addition a government agency, the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) assesses cost effectiveness of individual prescription drugs pricing. Th...
357. ...ervices were small and mid-sized biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Following the financial crash in 2008 the CMO industry started to be funded by private equity as a result of a substantial **growth** and a more qualified management. The one-stop CDMO concept could be the direction the industry is heading by offering the whole spectrum of development services (e.g. development, production and anal...
358. ...e in the United States. A more recent report released by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT in June 2012 finds that 48 percent of U.S. physicians use e-prescribing systems. National **growth** in e-prescribing over the period September 2008 through June 2012 increased over 40 percent, with individual states increasing adoption anywhere from 28 percent to 70 percent. In 2019, the Federal Tr...
359. ...alists are based throughout the world in Washington, D.C., Tokyo, India, and London to ensure a global emphasis to the latest news stories. Biotechnology industry in China China has seen double-digit **growth** in its biotechnology industry and has gone from being one of the slowest to one of the fastest nations in the adoption of new biotechnologies. The biotech sector is seen in China and internationally...
360. ...egistered sales totaling US$2.4 billion in 2000, compared with US$31 million in 1986. China's biopharmaceutical industry is gradually expanding due to such favorable factors as China's rapid economic **growth**, people's higher income, and increasing understanding of and demand for biopharmaceuticals. The biopharmaceutical industry has begun to play a more important role in the national economy, drawing mor...
361. ...ly with the rising consumption power and health awareness of people so that charged vaccine market is expanding rapidly. Charged vaccine as a supplement to free vaccine program has promoted the rapid **growth** of domestic vaccine market, the external diagnostic reagent is becoming familiar with people owing to people's deeper understanding of catalogues and curative effect of biological drugs. Nowadays gen...
362. ...rs in 2007, increased by 48% as compared with last year. The import volume reached 336 million dollars, which increased by 51% as compared with 2006, and the export volume was 41 million dollars. The **growth** rate of export volume in 2007 had declined from the level of 58% in 2006 to 26% in 2007. Although the export of China's biopharmaceutical industry constantly kept a high growth rate, the volume is ve...
363. ...1 million dollars. The growth rate of export volume in 2007 had declined from the level of 58% in 2006 to 26% in 2007. Although the export of China's biopharmaceutical industry constantly kept a high **growth** rate, the volume is very small compared with the import volume. The export volume was only 41 million dollars in 2007 whereas the import volume added up to US$336 million. This sharp contrast indicat...
364. ...oducts accounted for a very low market ratio in the international market. China's Minister of Agriculture Du Qinglin stated in July 2006 that science and technology should contribute up to 63% of the **growth** of Chinese agriculture sector by 2020. The minister outlined five areas that will be the focus of China in attempt to take advantage of biotechnology in agriculture, including GM cotton and rice, saf...
365. ...t the liquid-air interface of a standing solution, forming protein permeable, super strong and ultra flexible membranes. The unforced self-assembly creates a nanofibrilar membrane which supports cell **growth**. A confluent layer of human skin cells forms within three days, and would be suitable for direct delivery to a patient. As silkworm silk is potentially fatal to humans when in contact with vasculatur...
366. ...state and testicular cancer, ulcerative colitis, thyroid disease, suboptimal antibody response / decreased immunity, decreased fertility, hypertensive disorders in pregnancy, reduced infant and fetal **growth** and developmental issues in children, obesity, dyslipidemia (abnormally high cholesterol), and higher rates of hormone interference. The use of PFAS has been regulated internationally by the Stockhol...
367. ..., as well as counterfeit and misbranded Serostim and Neupogen. Procrit is an injectable drug used in the treatment of anemia, Serostim is Serono's brandname form of synthetic somatropin ("i.e." human **growth** hormone formed using laboratory methods of genetic recombination) marketed for HIV-associated wasting, and Neupogen is an injectable drug used by cancer patients to stimulate the production of white...
368. ...as been characterized by the degree of interparticle attraction. For attractions strong relative to the thermal energy (given by kT), Brownian motion produces irreversibly flocculated structures with **growth** rates limited by the rate of particle diffusion. This leads to a description using such parameters as the degree of branching, ramification or fractal dimensionality. A reversible growth model has be...
369. ...uctures with growth rates limited by the rate of particle diffusion. This leads to a description using such parameters as the degree of branching, ramification or fractal dimensionality. A reversible **growth** model has been constructed by modifying the cluster-cluster aggregation model with a finite inter-particle attraction energy. In systems where forces of attraction forces are buffered to some degree,...
370. ...r light scattering has provided information about spatial density fluctuations or the shape of growing crystal grains. In addition, confocal laser scanning microscopy has been used to observe crystal **growth** near a glass surface. Electro-optic shear waves have been induced by an ac pulse, and monitored by reflection spectroscopy as well as light scattering. Kinetics of colloidal crystallization have been...
371. ...roscopy as well as light scattering. Kinetics of colloidal crystallization have been measured quantitatively, with nucleation rates being depending on the suspension concentration. Similarly, crystal **growth** rates have been shown to decrease linearly with increasing reciprocal concentration. Experiments performed in microgravity on the Space Shuttle Columbia suggest that the typical face-centered cubic s...
372. ...port Promotion Council, and Gujarat Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Patel was named the "Best Pharma Man of the year 2003" by the Foundation of Indian Industry and Economists in recognition of the **growth** of Cadila under his leadership. At that time, Patel predicted that Zydus Cadila would become the third-largest pharmaceutical company in India by 2005. He has published over 100 research papers in pe...
373. ...onds. The first quantitative theories of chemical gelation were formulated in the 1940s by Flory and Stockmayer. Critical percolation theory was successfully applied to gelation in 1970s. A number of **growth** models (diffusion limited aggregation, cluster-cluster aggregation, kinetic gelation) were developed in the 1980s to describe the kinetic aspects of aggregation and gelation. It is important to be ab...
374. ...point and gel fraction for monomer precursors with arbitrary types of functional groups. Random graphs can be used to derive analytical expressions for simple polymerisation mechanisms, such as step-**growth** polymerisation, or alternatively, they can be combined with a system of rate equations that are integrated numerically. B&amp;O Supprettes B&O Supprettes is the brand name for a prescription medicati...
375. ...ined techniques would be more accurate. Also discussed were findings that tolerance to benzodiazepines can be demonstrated by injecting diazepam into long-term users; in normal subjects, increases in **growth** hormone occurs, whereas in benzodiazepine-tolerant individuals this effect is blunted. Also raised were findings in animal studies that showed the development of tolerance in the form of a 15 percent...

=== COMBINATION (295 occurrences) ===
1. ...Triclosan does not cause staining of the teeth. The safety of triclosan has been questioned. Astringents like zinc chloride provide a pleasant-tasting sensation and shrink tissues. Zinc, when used in **combination** with other antiseptic agents, can limit the buildup of tartar. Ambergris Ambergris ( or ; ; ), ambergrease, or grey amber is a solid, waxy, flammable substance of a dull grey or blackish colour produ...
2. ...ly error prone and thus mutations conferring resistance arise rapidly. Resistant strains of the HIV virus emerge rapidly if only one antiviral drug is used. Using three or more drugs together, termed **combination** therapy, has helped to control this problem, but new drugs are needed because of the continuing emergence of drug-resistant HIV strains. Infections by fungi are a cause of high morbidity and mortalit...
3. ...ions that are amenable to molecular detection. Due to the limited number of antifungals in clinical use and the increasing global incidence of antifungal resistance, using the existing antifungals in **combination** might be beneficial in some cases but further research is needed. Similarly, other approaches that might help to combat the emergence of antifungal resistance could rely on the development of host-di...
4. ...genes from a variety of specimen types. Progress has been slow due to a range of reasons including cost and regulation. Genotypic AMR characterisation methods are, however, being increasingly used in **combination** with machine learning algorithms in research to help better predict phenotypic AMR from organism genotype. Optical techniques such as phase contrast microscopy in combination with single-cell analysi...
5. ...ing increasingly used in combination with machine learning algorithms in research to help better predict phenotypic AMR from organism genotype. Optical techniques such as phase contrast microscopy in **combination** with single-cell analysis are another powerful method to monitor bacterial growth. In 2017, scientists from Uppsala University in Sweden published a method that applies principles of microfluidics an...
6. ...ca (SiNPs) nanoparticles also exhibit antimicrobial properties. However, high synthesis costs, potential toxicity, and instability pose challenges. To overcome these, biological synthesis methods and **combination** therapies with other antimicrobials are explored. Enhanced biocompatibility and targeting are also under investigation to improve efficacy. Similar to the situation in malaria therapy, where successf...
7. ...'s chemical characteristics. Different brands share the same code if they have the same active substance and indications. Each bottom-level ATC code stands for a pharmaceutically used substance, or a **combination** of substances, in a single indication (or use). This means that one drug can have more than one code, for example acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) has as a drug for local oral treatment, as a platelet...
8. ...d (aspirin) has as a drug for local oral treatment, as a platelet inhibitor, and as an analgesic and antipyretic; as well as one code can represent more than one active ingredient, for example is the **combination** of perindopril with amlodipine, two active ingredients that have their own codes ( and respectively) when prescribed alone. The ATC classification system is a strict hierarchy, meaning that each code...
9. ...f either of these processes occur the colloid will no longer be a suspension. Electrostatic stabilization and steric stabilization are the two main mechanisms for stabilization against aggregation. A **combination** of the two mechanisms is also possible (electrosteric stabilization). A method called gel network stabilization represents the principal way to produce colloids stable to both aggregation and sedimen...
10. ...ge reconstruction is still needed. TOF technique gives a remarkable improvement in image quality, especially signal-to-noise ratio. PET scans are increasingly read alongside CT or MRI scans, with the **combination** (co-registration) giving both anatomic and metabolic information (i.e., what the structure is, and what it is doing biochemically). Because PET imaging is most useful in combination with anatomical i...
11. ...I scans, with the combination (co-registration) giving both anatomic and metabolic information (i.e., what the structure is, and what it is doing biochemically). Because PET imaging is most useful in **combination** with anatomical imaging, such as CT, modern PET scanners are now available with integrated high-end multi-detector-row CT scanners (PET-CT). Because the two scans can be performed in immediate sequen...
12. ...nd dissolved in the other compounds collectively called concentration. Examples include molarity, volume fraction, and mole fraction. The properties of ideal solutions can be calculated by the linear **combination** of the properties of its components. If both solute and solvent exist in equal quantities (such as in a 50% ethanol, 50% water solution), the concepts of "solute" and "solvent" become less relevant,...
13. ...arising as a consequence of hyperthermia. The symptoms are often present as a clinical triad of abnormalities: Numerous medications and street drugs can cause SS when taken alone at high doses or in **combination** with other serotonergic agents. The table below lists some of these. Many cases of serotonin toxicity occur in people who have ingested drug combinations that synergistically increase synaptic seroto...
14. ...es of serotonin toxicity occur in people who have ingested drug combinations that synergistically increase synaptic serotonin. It may also occur due to an overdose of a single serotonergic agent. The **combination** of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) with precursors such as or pose a particularly acute risk of life-threatening serotonin syndrome. The case of combination of MAOIs with tryptamine agonists (co...
15. ...e of a single serotonergic agent. The combination of monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) with precursors such as or pose a particularly acute risk of life-threatening serotonin syndrome. The case of **combination** of MAOIs with tryptamine agonists (commonly known as ayahuasca) can present similar dangers as their combination with precursors, but this phenomenon has been described in general terms as the cheese...
16. ...or pose a particularly acute risk of life-threatening serotonin syndrome. The case of combination of MAOIs with tryptamine agonists (commonly known as ayahuasca) can present similar dangers as their **combination** with precursors, but this phenomenon has been described in general terms as the cheese effect. Many MAOIs irreversibly inhibit monoamine oxidase. It can take at least four weeks for this enzyme to be...
17. ...body. She also seemed disoriented at times. The emergency room physicians were unable to diagnose her condition definitively but admitted her for hydration and observation. Her death was caused by a **combination** of pethidine and phenelzine. A medical intern prescribed the pethidine. The case influenced graduate medical education and residency work hours. Limits were set on working hours for medical postgradu...
18. ...tion. Even though this ionization suppression is qualitatively similar to that of Donnan prediction, it is absent without electrostatic consideration and present irrespective of ion partitioning. The **combination** of both effects as well as gel elasticity determines the volume of the gel at equilibrium. Due to the complexity of the coupled acid-base equilibrium, electrostatics and network elasticity, only rece...
19. ...um tincture, and advocated its use for a range of medical conditions. By the 18th century, the medicinal properties of opium and laudanum were well known, and the term "laudanum" came to refer to any **combination** of opium and alcohol. In the 18th century several physicians published works about it, including John Jones, who wrote "The Mysteries of Opium Revealed" (1700), which was described by one commentator...
20. ...it voltage-sensitive calcium ion channels, and activate potassium ion channels. Many CB receptors are located on axon terminals, where they act to inhibit the release of various neurotransmitters. In **combination**, these chemical actions work to alter various functions of the central nervous system, including the motor system, memory, and various cognitive processes. The opioid category of drugs – including dr...
21. ...atment for cancer. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is available as a generic medication. Thalidomide is used as a first-line treatment for multiple myeloma in **combination** with dexamethasone or with melphalan and prednisone to treat acute episodes of erythema nodosum leprosum, as well as for maintenance therapy. The bacterium that causes tuberculosis (TB) is related to...
22. ...ublished in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1999. After further work was done by Celgene and others, in 2006 the US Food and Drug Administration granted accelerated approval for thalidomide in **combination** with dexamethasone for the treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients. It was also evaluated whether thalidomide can be combined with melphalan and prednisone for patients with multiple m...
23. ...hasone for the treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients. It was also evaluated whether thalidomide can be combined with melphalan and prednisone for patients with multiple myeloma. This **combination** of drugs probably results in an increase of the overall survival. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, more than 10,000 children in 46 countries were born with deformities, such as phocomelia, as a con...
24. ...and at the surface respectively. The "transition regime" contains all the particles in between the free molecular and continuum regimes or "K" ≈ 1. The forces experienced by a particle are a complex **combination** of interactions with individual gas molecules and macroscopic interactions. The semi-empirical equation describing mass flux is: where "I" is the mass flux in the continuum regime. This formula is ca...
25. ...ty. However, recreational amphetamine doses may also be neurotoxic. Methylphenidate is a stimulant drug that is often used in the treatment of ADHD and narcolepsy and occasionally to treat obesity in **combination** with diet restraints and exercise. Its effects at therapeutic doses include increased focus, increased alertness, decreased appetite, decreased need for sleep and decreased impulsivity. Methylphenida...
26. ...a wakefulness-promoting agent. The salts pseudoephedrine hydrochloride and pseudoephedrine sulfate are found in many over-the-counter preparations, either as a single ingredient or (more commonly) in **combination** with antihistamines, guaifenesin, dextromethorphan, and/or paracetamol (acetaminophen) or another NSAID (such as aspirin or ibuprofen). It is also used as a precursor chemical in the illegal producti...
27. ...ng, and sigmoid colon, rectum, and anal canal. The small intestine begins at the duodenum and is a tubular structure, usually between 6 and 7 m long. Its mucosal area in an adult human is about . The **combination** of the circular folds, the villi, and the microvilli increases the absorptive area of the mucosa about 600-fold, making a total area of about for the entire small intestine. Its main function is to a...
28. ..., and the penile tissue and vascular smooth muscle cells that are involved in penile erection and it is also used to treat physiologically impaired and psychogenic erectile dysfunction, preferably in **combination** with other treatments. Known adverse effects include nausea, anxiety, irregular heartbeats, and restlessness. Horny goat weed ("Epimedii herba") is used in Chinese folk medicine. It was thought to be...
29. ...s of Pelargonium plants and beans. Tartaric acid and its derivatives have a plethora of uses in the field of pharmaceuticals. For example, it has been used in the production of effervescent salts, in **combination** with citric acid, to improve the taste of oral medications. The potassium antimonyl derivative of the acid known as tartar emetic is included, in small doses, in cough syrup as an expectorant. Tartar...
30. ...n the gastric tract. Tablets need to be strong enough to resist the stresses of packaging, shipping, and handling by the pharmacist and patient. The mechanical strength of tablets is assessed using a **combination** of simple failure and erosion tests, and more sophisticated engineering tests. The simpler tests are often used for quality control purposes, whereas the more complex tests are used during the design...
31. ...ss the popularity of tooth-powder until World War I. Together with Willoughby D. Miller, Newell Sill Jenkins developed the first toothpaste containing disinfectants, branded as Kolynos. The name is a **combination** of two Greek words, meaning "beautifier" and "disease preventer". Numerous attempts to produce the toothpaste by pharmacists in Europe proved uneconomic. After returning to the US, he continued exper...
32. ...oduct. There is therefore no contact between the product and the ambient air during use. The ancillary tool (generally part of a dental engine) used to supply water, compressed air or mist (formed by **combination** of water and compressed air) to the oral cavity for the purpose of irrigation (cleaning debris away from the area the dentist is working on), is also referred to as a dental syringe or a dental irrig...
33. ...m or worm can reproduce to cause a serious infection. If a host has an intact immune system, the inherent toxicity of the organism is balanced by the host's response; the effective toxicity is then a **combination**. In some cases, e.g. cholera toxin, the disease is chiefly caused by a nonliving substance secreted by the organism, rather than the organism itself. Such nonliving biological toxicants are generally...
34. ...idexterity (equal preference of either hand), but it is rare—most people prefer using one hand for most purposes. Most of the current research suggests that left-handedness has an epigenetic marker—a **combination** of genetics, biology and the environment. Because the vast majority of the population is right-handed, many devices are designed for use by right-handed people, making their use by left-handed people...
35. ...In Japan, during this time, the term tranquilizer produced the notion of a psyche-stabilizer and the term mood stabilizer vanished. Premarin (conjugated estrogens, introduced in 1942) and Prempro (a **combination** estrogen-progestin pill, introduced in 1995) dominated the hormone replacement therapy (HRT) during the 1990s. HRT is not a life-saving drug, nor does it cure any disease. HRT has been prescribed to...
36. ...ons of these drugs. Their effects on weight are believed to mostly derive from their actions on the H and 5-HT receptors, while their effects on insulin sensitivity are believed to be the result of a **combination** of their effects on body weight (as increased body mass is known to be a risk factor for insulin resistance) and their antagonistic effects on the M receptor. Some of the newer agents, however, such...
37. ...file of desirable and adverse effects, a neuropsychopharmacologist may recommend one of the older ("typical" or first generation) or newer ("atypical" or second generation) antipsychotics alone or in **combination** with other medications, based on the symptom profile, response pattern, and adverse effects history of the individual patient. Between May 2007 and April 2008, 5.5 million Americans filled at least o...
38. ...ps, which cause resistance to multiple antibiotics such as beta-lactams, quinolones, chloramphenicol, and trimethoprim by sending molecules of those antibiotics out of the bacterial cell. Sometimes a **combination** of different classes of antibiotics may be used synergistically; that is, they work together to effectively fight bacteria that may be resistant to one of the antibiotics alone. Destruction of the re...
39. ...occulants may be dosed into the water stream to increase the effectiveness of the settling or filtration process. Potable water treatment and municipal wastewater plants often remove turbidity with a **combination** of settling tanks, granular media filtration, and clarifiers. In-situ water treatment or direct dosing for the treatment of turbidity is common when the affected water bodies are dispersed (i.e. ther...
40. ...s from counseling patients or doing the final medication check prior to dispensing to patients (rather than a pharmacist solely responsible for these duties) do not apply. Pharmacy informatics is the **combination** of pharmacy practice science and applied information science. Pharmacy informaticists work in many practice areas of pharmacy, however, they may also work in information technology departments or for...
41. ...syrup, some are sugar, or blends of both. Flavored syrups are made by infusing simple syrups with flavoring agents during the cooking process. A wide variety of flavoring agents can be used, often in **combination** with each other, such as herbs, spices, or aromatics. For instance, "syrups' aromatics" is prepared by adding certain quantities of orange flavorings and cinnamon water to simple syrup. This type of...
42. ...ales associated with the reactor, and with the polymerization type. In conventional bulk free radical polymerization, the dispersity is often controlled by the proportion of chains that terminate via **combination** or disproportionation. The rate of reaction for free radical polymerization is exceedingly quick, due to the reactivity of the radical intermediates. When these radicals react in any reactor, their l...
43. ...n sometimes reduce the bioavailability. This should in no way suggest to clinicians or researchers that inhaled particles are not a greater threat than swallowed particles, it merely signifies that a **combination** of both methods may occur with some particles, no matter the size of or lipo/hydrophilicity of the different particle surfaces. Inhalation by nose of a substance is almost identical to oral inhalatio...
44. ...ume), complications or adverse effects are very rare. The most common adverse reactions after subcutaneous injections are administered are termed "injection site reactions". This term encompasses any **combination** of redness, swelling, itching, bruising, or other irritation that does not spread beyond the immediate vicinity of the injection. Injection site reactions may be minimized if repeated injections are...
45. ...itute three-month for one-month supplies of medicines. A three-month supply represented a 29% decrease in out-of-pocket costs and an 18% decrease in total prescription costs in one study. Prescribing **combination** drugs instead of two separate medications can also potentially reduce monthly copays. Because the FDA has no regulations on drug companies in providing evidence that a new drug has a therapeutic adva...
46. ...xtracts offer an alternative for preparations meant to be taken internally. Low volatility substances such as iodine and mercurochrome can also be turned into tinctures. Tinctures are often made of a **combination** of ethyl alcohol and water as solvents, each dissolving constituents the other is unable to, or weaker at. Varying their proportions can also produce different levels of constituents in the final ext...
47. ...and >25 years 950 mg. Because of concerns of long-term adverse side effects such as calcification of arteries and kidney stones, the IOM and EFSA both set Tolerable Upper Intake Levels (ULs) for the **combination** of dietary and supplemental calcium. From the IOM, people ages 9–18 years are not supposed to exceed 3,000 mg/day; for ages 19–50 not to exceed 2,500 mg/day; for ages 51 and older, not to exceed 2,00...
48. ...lance of magnesium is vital to the well-being of all organisms. Magnesium is a relatively abundant ion in Earth's crust and mantle and is highly bioavailable in the hydrosphere. This availability, in **combination** with a useful and very unusual chemistry, may have led to its utilization in evolution as an ion for signaling, enzyme activation, and catalysis. However, the unusual nature of ionic magnesium has al...
49. ...eta-1a administered subcutaneously or intravenously was investigated since March 2020 as a potential treatment in patients hospitalized with COVID-19 in a multinational Solidarity trial (initially in **combination** with lopinavir) but it did not reduce in-hospital mortality compared to local standard of care.  SNG001, an inhalation formulation of interferon beta-1a, is being developed as a treatment for COVID-1...
50. ...ractions of herbs and drugs. In consultation with a physician, usage of herbal remedies should be clarified, as some herbal remedies have the potential to cause adverse drug interactions when used in **combination** with various prescription and over-the-counter pharmaceuticals, just as a customer should inform a herbalist of their consumption of actual prescription and other medication. For example, dangerously...
51. ...counter pharmaceuticals, just as a customer should inform a herbalist of their consumption of actual prescription and other medication. For example, dangerously low blood pressure may result from the **combination** of a herbal remedy that lowers blood pressure together with prescription medicine that has the same effect. Some herbs may amplify the effects of anticoagulants. Certain herbs as well as common fruit...
52. ...69) contains the first published illustration of tobacco. By about 2000 BCE, medical papyri in ancient Egypt included medical prescriptions based on plant matter and made reference to the herbalist's **combination** of medicines and magic for healing. The ancient Egyptian Papyrus Ebers is one of the earliest known herbals; it dates to 1550 BCE and is based on sources, now lost, dating back a further 500 to 2000...
53. ...art disease (RR 0.84), and cardiovascular events (RR 0.70) in people with high blood pressure. In the ensuring years other classes of antihypertensive drug were developed and found wide acceptance in **combination** therapy, including loop diuretics (Lasix/furosemide, Hoechst Pharmaceuticals, 1963), beta blockers (ICI Pharmaceuticals, 1964) ACE inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers. ACE inhibitors reduce...
54. ...blish its suitability as a medication. Objectives of drug development are to determine appropriate formulation and dosing, as well as to establish safety. Research in these areas generally includes a **combination** of "in vitro" studies, "in vivo" studies, and clinical trials. The cost of late stage development has meant it is usually done by the larger pharmaceutical companies. The pharmaceuticals and biotechn...
55. ...thnobotany, which is focused specifically on medicinal uses. Artemisinin, an antimalarial agent from sweet wormtree "Artemisia annua", used in Chinese medicine since 200BC is one drug used as part of **combination** therapy for multiresistant "Plasmodium falciparum". Additionally, since machine learning has become more advanced, virtual screening is now an option for drug developers. AI algorithms are being used...
56. ...hemical activity. Mass spectrometry is a method in which individual compounds are identified based on their mass/charge ratio, after ionization. Chemical compounds exist in nature as mixtures, so the **combination** of liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry (LC-MS) is often used to separate the individual chemicals. Databases of mass spectra for known compounds are available and can be used to assign a stru...
57. ...ortant for the binding process. Each component reflects a certain kind of free energy alteration during the binding process between a ligand and its target receptor. The Master Equation is the linear **combination** of these components. According to Gibbs free energy equation, the relation between dissociation equilibrium constant, K, and the components of free energy was built. Various computational methods are...
58. ...the United States in September 1998, and in the European Union in August 2000. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. The safety and efficacy of trastuzumab-containing **combination** therapies (with chemotherapy, hormone blockers, or lapatinib) for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. The overall hazard ratios (HR) for overall survival and progression free survival were 0.8...
59. ...art problems by an absolute risk of 2.1%, though the problems may resolve if treatment is stopped. Trastuzumab has had a "major impact in the treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer." The **combination** of trastuzumab with chemotherapy has been shown to increase both survival and response rate, in comparison to trastuzumab alone. It is possible to determine the "erbB2 status" of a tumor, which can b...
60. ...failure to downregulate p27 (Kip1) as well as suppressing p27 translocation to the nucleus in breast cancer, enabling cdk2 to induce cell proliferation. In May 2021, the FDA approved pembrolizumab in **combination** with trastuzumab, fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of people with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic HER2 positive gastric or gastroesophag...
61. ...en/Dual-hapten In-situ hybridization) cocktail uses both HER2 and Chromosome 17 hybridization probes for chromagenic visualization on the same tissue section. The detection can be achieved by using a **combination** of ultraView SISH(silver in-situ hybridization) and ultraView Red ISH for deposition of distinct chromgenic precipitates at the site of DNP or DIG labeled probes. One of the challenges in the treatme...
62. ...r medicine in the form of a liquid solution, which is often loaded into the device upon use. Corticosteroids and bronchodilators such as salbutamol ("albuterol" USAN) are often used, and sometimes in **combination** with ipratropium. The reason these pharmaceuticals are inhaled instead of ingested is in order to target their effect to the respiratory tract, which speeds onset of action of the medicine and reduce...
63. ...onic cigarettes featured an ultrasonic wave nebulizer (having a piezoelectric element vibrating and creating high-frequency ultrasound waves, to cause vibration and atomization of liquid nicotine) in **combination** with a vapouriser (built as a spray nozzle with an electric heating element). The most common type of electronic cigarettes currently sold, however, omit the ultrasonic wave nebulizer, as it was not...
64. ...e efficient enough for this kind of device. Instead, the electronic cigarettes now use an electric vaporizer, either in direct contact with the absorbent material in the "impregnated atomizer," or in **combination** with the nebulization technology related to a "spraying jet atomizer" (in the form of liquid droplets being out-sprayed by a high-speed air stream, that passes through some small venturi injection ch...
65. ..., in some cases with additional options for monitoring end-tidal carbon dioxide and temperature. Breathing systems are also typically incorporated, including a manual reservoir bag for ventilation in **combination** with an adjustable pressure-limiting valve, as well as an integrated mechanical ventilator, to accurately ventilate the patient during anaesthesia. Based on experience gained from analysis of mishaps...
66. ...ghly deformable vesicles, designed for non-invasive transdermal material delivery, known as transfersomes. Liposomes are used as models for artificial cells.  Liposomes can be used on their own or in **combination** with traditional antibiotics as neutralizing agents of bacterial toxins. Many bacterial toxins evolved to target specific lipids of the host cells membrane and can be baited and neutralized by liposo...
67. ...higher doses. In a letter to the "British Medical Journal", it was reported that a high proportion of parents referred for actual or threatened child abuse were taking medication at the time, often a **combination** of benzodiazepines and tricyclic antidepressants. Many mothers described that instead of feeling less anxious or depressed, they became more hostile and openly aggressive towards the child as well as...
68. ...radoxical reactions upon – for example – benzodiazepines, barbiturates, inhalational anesthetics, propofol, neurosteroids, and alcohol are associated with structural deviations of GABA receptors. The **combination** of the five subunits of the receptor (see image) can be altered in such a way that for example, the receptor's response to GABA remains unchanged but the response to one of the named substances is dr...
69. ...ion is a crucial factor in determining effect and toxicity of the drug, taking in consideration the pharmacokinetic (PK) factors. The sort and extent of altered cellular physiology will depend on the **combination** of the drug's presence (as established by pharmacokinetic (PK) studies). and/or its mechanism and duration of action (PD). Types of xenobiotic-target interaction can be described either by reversible...
70. ...to water pollution remembering the compact size can be easily carried away by wind and water without proper disposal. A transdermal patch is classified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a "**combination** product", consisting of a medical device combined with a drug or biological product that the device is designed to deliver. Prior to sale in the United States, any transdermal patch product must appl...
71. ...ibitor (NRTI) sold under the trade name Hivid. Zalcitabine was the third antiretroviral to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of HIV/AIDS. It is used as part of a **combination** regimen. Zalcitabine appears less potent than some other nucleoside RTIs, has an inconvenient three-times daily frequency and is associated with serious adverse events. For these reasons it is now ra...
72. ...ne was the third antiretroviral to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of HIV/AIDS. It was approved on June 19, 1992, as a monotherapy and again in 1996 for use in **combination** with zidovudine (AZT). Using combinations of NRTIs was in practice prior to the second FDA approval and the triple drug combinations with dual NRTIs and a protease inhibitor (PI) were not far off by...
73. ...implemented for the management of preterm babies who have or are at a risk of infant respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). "Myo"-inositol helps prevent neural tube defects with particular efficacy in **combination** with folic acid. Inositol is considered a safe and effective treatment for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). It works by increasing insulin sensitivity, which helps to improve ovarian function and re...
74. ...ntity of each strain characterizing the normal gastrointestinal flora. This alteration could lead to chronic, low-level inflammation and malabsorption. A possible solution could be represented by the **combination** of "myo"-inositol and α-lactalbumin. This combination shows a synergic effect in increasing myo-inositol absorption. A recent study reported that the "myo"-inositol and α-lactalbumin combination incr...
75. ...ntestinal flora. This alteration could lead to chronic, low-level inflammation and malabsorption. A possible solution could be represented by the combination of "myo"-inositol and α-lactalbumin. This **combination** shows a synergic effect in increasing myo-inositol absorption. A recent study reported that the "myo"-inositol and α-lactalbumin combination increases "myo"-inositol plasmatic content in inositol-res...
76. ...the combination of "myo"-inositol and α-lactalbumin. This combination shows a synergic effect in increasing myo-inositol absorption. A recent study reported that the "myo"-inositol and α-lactalbumin **combination** increases "myo"-inositol plasmatic content in inositol-resistant patients with a relative improvement of hormonal and metabolic parameters. Inositol has been used as an adulterant or cutting agent fo...
77. ...a device used to vaporize substances for inhalation. Plant substances can be used, commonly cannabis, tobacco, or other herbs or blends of essential oil. However, they are most commonly filled with a **combination** propylene glycol, glycerin, and drugs such as nicotine (e.g. extract from tobacco) or tetrahydrocannabinol as a liquid solution. Vaporizers contain various forms of extraction chambers including stra...
78. ...on. Flavourings may be natural (e.g. fruit extract) or artificial. For example, to improve: Glidants are used to promote powder flow by reducing interparticle friction and cohesion. These are used in **combination** with lubricants as they have no ability to reduce wall friction. Examples include silica gel, fumed silica, talc, and magnesium carbonate. However, some silica gel glidants such as Syloid(R) 244 FP a...
79. ...cular, medicinal chemistry in its most common practice—focusing on small organic molecules—encompasses synthetic organic chemistry and aspects of natural products and computational chemistry in close **combination** with chemical biology, enzymology and structural biology, together aiming at the discovery and development of new therapeutic agents. Practically speaking, it involves chemical aspects of identificat...
80. ...labor oxytocin is also used to augment uterine contractions. In one study which examined the rate of breastfeeding two days following epidural anesthesia during childbirth, epidural analgesia used in **combination** with oxytocin resulted in lower maternal oxytocin and prolactin levels in response to breastfeeding on the second day following birth. The lower maternal oxytocin level negatively affects the baby’s...
81. ...he genitals or pelvic organs. For some procedures where both the rapid onset of a spinal anesthetic and the post-operative analgesic effects of an epidural are desired, both techniques may be used in **combination**. This is called combined spinal and epidural anesthesia (CSE). The spinal anesthetic may be administered in one location, and the epidural at an adjacent location. Alternatively, after locating the e...
82. ...edications in a given week. Polypharmacy has also shown to have increased since 2000 from 23% to 29%. "Case A – Antipsychotic adverse reaction" Patient A has schizophrenia. Their treatment included a **combination** of ziprasidone, olanzapine, trazodone and benztropine. The patient experienced dizziness and sedation, so they were tapered off ziprasidone and olanzapine, and transitioned to quetiapine. Trazodone w...
83. ...and later called "Excedrin tension headaches"). In 2007, the brand branched out into marketing for other types of pains with the introduction of Excedrin Back & Body, without caffeine. Excedrin is a **combination** medication composed of acetaminophen, aspirin, and caffeine. These medications treat migraine headache in a variety of ways. Acetaminophen is a fever reducer and painkiller. Its precise mechanism is...
84. ...nada had a different formulation compared to the United States. In Canada the product sold with those names contained 500 mg of acetaminophen and 65 mg of caffeine per tablet. The reason was that the **combination** of acetaminophen with aspirin creates the risk of renal papillary necrosis if large doses are taken chronically. In 2005, Bristol-Myers Squibb announced the sale of its North American consumer medici...
85. ...iple pharmacies that may not communicate. Whether or not the advantages of polypharmacy (over taking single medications or monotherapy) outweigh the disadvantages or risks depends upon the particular **combination** and diagnosis involved in any given case. The use of multiple drugs, even in fairly straightforward illnesses, is not an indicator of poor treatment and is not necessarily overmedication. Moreover, i...
86. ...indicator of poor treatment and is not necessarily overmedication. Moreover, it is well accepted in pharmacology that it is impossible to accurately predict the side effects or clinical effects of a **combination** of drugs without studying that particular combination of drugs in test subjects. Knowledge of the pharmacologic profiles of the individual drugs in question does not assure accurate prediction of the...
87. ...ermedication. Moreover, it is well accepted in pharmacology that it is impossible to accurately predict the side effects or clinical effects of a combination of drugs without studying that particular **combination** of drugs in test subjects. Knowledge of the pharmacologic profiles of the individual drugs in question does not assure accurate prediction of the side effects of combinations of those drugs; and effe...
88. ...s, hypertension, lymphedema, hypercholesterolemia, osteoporosis, constipation, inflammatory bowel disease, and clinical depression may be prescribed more than a dozen different medications daily. The **combination** of multiple drugs has been associated with an increased risk of adverse drug events. Reducing pill burden is recognized as a way to improve medication compliance, also referred to as adherence. This...
89. ...ain sight in the living room, or putting the prescription sheet on the refrigerator. The development of applications has also shown some benefit in this regard. The use of a polypill regimen, such as **combination** pill for HIV treatment, as opposed to a multi-pill regimen, also alleviates pill burden and increases adherence.  The selection of long-acting active ingredients over short-acting ones may also reduc...
90. .... This preventative measure should be considered for anyone who exhibits one of the following: (1) a new symptom or adverse event arises, (2) when the person develops an end-stage disease, (3) if the **combination** of drugs is risky, or (4) if stopping the drug does not alter the disease trajectory. Several tools exist to help physicians decide when to deprescribe and what medications can be added to a pharmace...
91. ...ime and are more common in the less-educated elderly even after controlling for age, sex, place of residence, and comorbidity. Adjuvant In pharmacology, an adjuvant is a drug or other substance, or a **combination** of substances, that is used to increase the efficacy or potency of certain drugs. Specifically, the term can refer to: The Frythe The Frythe is a country house set in its own grounds in rural Hertfor...
92. ...ies of equipment and LSD seized along with the two men who had been making the LSD, Quentin Theobald and Peter Simmons. The availability of LSD had been drastically reduced by the late 1970s due to a **combination** of governmental controls and law enforcement. The supply of constituent chemicals including lysergic acid, which was used for production of LSD in the 1960s, and ergotamine tartrate, which was used f...
93. ...ming consistency worldwide (an effort leading to the International Nonproprietary Name system). There is also a British Approved Name (Modified) (BANM). BANs are unique in that names are assigned for **combination** preparations as well as single-drug preparations. For example, the BAN Co-amoxiclav is assigned to preparations containing amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. Most other pharmacopoeias simply refer to c...
94. ...n preparations as well as single-drug preparations. For example, the BAN Co-amoxiclav is assigned to preparations containing amoxicillin and clavulanic acid. Most other pharmacopoeias simply refer to **combination** products by both ingredients in the preparation, in this example "amoxicillin with clavulanic acid". The prefix of "co-" is used for many combination drugs, including opioid with paracetamol or aspir...
95. ...c acid. Most other pharmacopoeias simply refer to combination products by both ingredients in the preparation, in this example "amoxicillin with clavulanic acid". The prefix of "co-" is used for many **combination** drugs, including opioid with paracetamol or aspirin analgesics (e.g., Co-codamol, Co-codaprin, Co-dydramol, Co-proxamol). The other commonly encountered opioid combination is the anti-diarrhoeal, non...
96. ...x of "co-" is used for many combination drugs, including opioid with paracetamol or aspirin analgesics (e.g., Co-codamol, Co-codaprin, Co-dydramol, Co-proxamol). The other commonly encountered opioid **combination** is the anti-diarrhoeal, non-analgesic mixture of diphenoxylate and atropine, Co-phenotrope (a.k.a. Lomotil). Also antibiotics (e.g., Co-fluampicil and Co-trimoxazole), drugs to lower blood pressure (...
97. ...tities to existing drug families. Stems may be prefixes, suffixes, or interfixes in the nonproprietary name. Each stem can emphasize a specific chemical structure type, a pharmacologic property, or a **combination** of these attributes. The recommended list of USAN stems is updated regularly to keep pace to accommodate drugs with new chemical and pharmacologic properties. As a general rule, the application for a...
98. ...the figure-eight knot are achiral, whereas the trefoil knot is chiral. Chirality (chemistry) In chemistry, a molecule or ion is called chiral () if it cannot be superposed on its mirror image by any **combination** of rotations, translations, and some conformational changes. This geometric property is called chirality (). The terms are derived from Ancient Greek ("cheir") 'hand'; which is the canonical example...
99. ...wist (pictured). Also cf. dextro- and levo- (laevo-). Chiral ligands confer chirality to a metal complex, as illustrated by metal-amino acid complexes. If the metal exhibits catalytic properties, its **combination** with a chiral ligand is the basis of asymmetric catalysis. The term "optical activity" is derived from the interaction of chiral materials with polarized light. In a solution, the (−)-form, or levoro...
100. ...to remove the almost-limitless number of xenobiotic compounds from the complex mixture of chemicals involved in normal metabolism. The solution that has evolved to address this problem is an elegant **combination** of physical barriers and low-specificity enzymatic systems. All organisms use cell membranes as hydrophobic permeability barriers to control access to their internal environment. Polar compounds cann...
101. ...es more polar metabolites that cannot diffuse across membranes, and may, therefore, be actively transported. These reactions are catalysed by a large group of broad-specificity transferases, which in **combination** can metabolise almost any hydrophobic compound that contains nucleophilic or electrophilic groups. One of the most important classes of this group is that of the glutathione S-transferases (GSTs). Af...
102. ...ever, the Van der Waals attraction also increases as they get closer. At each distance, the net potential energy of the smaller value is subtracted from the larger value. At very close distances, the **combination** of these forces results in a deep attractive well, which is referred to as the primary minimum. At larger distances, the energy profile goes through a maximum, or energy barrier, and subsequently pas...
103. ...emical structure of penicillin was determined by Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin in 1945, work for which she later received a Nobel Prize in Chemistry (1964). Modern structure determination often involves a **combination** of advanced analytical techniques. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography are commonly used as primary tools for structure elucidation. High-resolution tandem mass sp...
104. ...re determination. This may include computer-assisted structure elucidation (CASE) platforms and in silico fragmentation prediction tools. Determination of the absolute configuration often relies on a **combination** of NMR data (coupling constants and nuclear Overhauser effect (NOE), chemical derivatization methods (e.g., Mosher's ester analysis), and spectroscopic techniques like vibrational circular dichroism...
105. ...dgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and nodular lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin's lymphoma. This also includes Waldenström's macroglobulinemia, a type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Rituximab in **combination** with hyaluronidase human, sold under the brand names Mabthera SC and Rituxan Hycela, is used to treat follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. It is used...
106. ...th hyaluronidase human, sold under the brand names Mabthera SC and Rituxan Hycela, is used to treat follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. It is used in **combination** with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide to treat previously untreated and previously treated CD20-positive chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Rituximab has been shown to be an effective rheumatoid arthritis...
107. ...effective rheumatoid arthritis treatment in three randomised controlled trials and is now licensed for use in refractory rheumatoid disease. In the United States, it has been FDA approved for use in **combination** with methotrexate for reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who have had an inadequate response to one or more anti-TNF-alpha ther...
108. ...active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who have had an inadequate response to one or more anti-TNF-alpha therapy. In the European Union, the license is slightly more restrictive: it is licensed for use in **combination** with methotrexate in patients with severe active RA who have had an inadequate response to one or more anti-TNF therapy. There is some evidence for efficacy, but not necessarily safety, in a range of...
109. ...ctiveness in clinical trials, rituximab was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1997 to treat B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas resistant to other chemotherapy regimens. Rituximab, in **combination** with CHOP chemotherapy, is superior to CHOP alone in the treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and many other B-cell lymphomas. In 2010, it was authorized by the European Commission for maintena...
110. ...enous injection (e.g. over 2.5 hrs), in 2016, it gained EU approval in a formulation for subcutaneous injection for B-cell CLL/lymphoma (CLL). In June 2017, the US FDA granted regular approval to the **combination** of rituximab and hyaluronidase human (brand name Rituxan Hycela) for adults with follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The combination is not indicated...
111. ...approval to the combination of rituximab and hyaluronidase human (brand name Rituxan Hycela) for adults with follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The **combination** is not indicated for the treatment of non-malignant conditions. The combination was approved based on clinical studies SABRINA/NCT01200758 and MabEase/NCT01649856. In September 2019, the US FDA appro...
112. ...tuxan Hycela) for adults with follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The combination is not indicated for the treatment of non-malignant conditions. The **combination** was approved based on clinical studies SABRINA/NCT01200758 and MabEase/NCT01649856. In September 2019, the US FDA approved rituximab injection to treat granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopi...
113. ...58 and MabEase/NCT01649856. In September 2019, the US FDA approved rituximab injection to treat granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis in children two years of age and older in **combination** with glucocorticoids (steroid hormones). It is the first approved treatment for children with these rare vasculitis diseases, in which a person's small blood vessels become inflamed, reducing the amo...
114. ...the sinuses and skin. Rituximab was approved by the FDA to treat adults with granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis in 2011. In December 2021, the US FDA approved rituximab in **combination** with chemotherapy for children aged 6 months to 18 years with previously untreated, advanced stage, CD20-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, Burkitt-like lymphoma, or mature B-c...
115. ...of corticosteroids, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, high-dose methotrexate, cytarabine, doxorubicin, etoposide, and triple drug (methotrexate/cytarabine/corticosteroid) intrathecal therapy alone or in **combination** with rituximab or non-US licensed rituximab, administered as six infusions of rituximab IV at a dose of 375 mg/m2 as per the Lymphome Malin B scheme. Rituximab was approved for medical use in the Uni...
116. ...xpensive. Rituximab has been reported as a possible cofactor in a chronic hepatitis E infection in a person with lymphoma. Hepatitis E infection is normally an acute infection, suggesting the drug in **combination** with lymphoma may have weakened the body's immune response to the virus. In 2009, a patient receiving methotrexate-induced B-cell depletion for cancer treatment, experienced a transient remittal of t...
117. ...nin, chitin, or starch may be broken down into their individual nanoscale building blocks, obtaining anisotropic fiber- or needle-like nanoparticles. The biopolymers are disintegrated mechanically in **combination** with chemical oxidation or enzymatic treatment to promote breakup, or hydrolysed using acid. Another method to create nanoparticles is to turn a suitable precursor substance, such as a gas (e.g. meth...
118. ...e structures of the same material, such as aerogels and other porous networks.  The nanoparticles formed by this method are then separated from the solvent and soluble byproducts of the reaction by a **combination** of evaporation, sedimentation, centrifugation, washing, and filtration. Alternatively, if the particles are meant to be deposited on the surface of some solid substrate, the starting solutions can be...
119. ...dern gas evaporation techniques can produce a relatively narrow size distribution is that aggregation can be avoided. However, even in this case, random residence times in the growth zone, due to the **combination** of drift and diffusion, result in a size distribution appearing lognormal. It would, therefore, appear desirable to process a material in such a way that it is physically uniform with regard to the d...
120. ...Some doctors advise to use them 3 days at maximum. A recent clinical trial has shown that a corticosteroid nasal spray may be useful in reversing this condition. Topical nasal decongestants include: **Combination** use of two medications as nasal spray preparation has been frequently prescribed by doctors. List of some combination nasal sprays: In some countries, Dymista is marketed by Viatris after Upjohn merg...
121. ...y may be useful in reversing this condition. Topical nasal decongestants include: Combination use of two medications as nasal spray preparation has been frequently prescribed by doctors. List of some **combination** nasal sprays: In some countries, Dymista is marketed by Viatris after Upjohn merged with Mylan to create Viatris. Pharmacovigilance Pharmacovigilance (PV, or PhV), also known as drug safety, is the p...
122. ...see AE reporting as a priority, especially if the symptoms are not serious. And even if the symptoms are serious, the symptoms may not be recognized as a possible side effect of a particular drug or **combination** thereof. In addition, medical personnel may not feel compelled to report events that are viewed as expected. This is why reports from patients themselves are of high value. The confirmation of these...
123. ...between an adverse event and a drug, one must first exclude the possibility that there were other possible causes or contributing factors. If the patient is on a number of medications, it may be the **combination** of these drugs which causes the AE, and not any one individually. There have been a number of recent high-profile cases where the AE led to the death of an individual. The individuals were not overdo...
124. ...There have been a number of recent high-profile cases where the AE led to the death of an individual. The individuals were not overdosed with any one of the many medications they were taking, but the **combination** there appeared to cause the AE. Hence it is important to include in your/one's AE report, not only the drug being reported, but also all other drugs the patient was also taking. For instance, if a pa...
125. ...eaction An adverse drug reaction (ADR) is a harmful, unintended result caused by taking medication. ADRs may occur following a single dose or prolonged administration of a drug or may result from the **combination** of two or more drugs. The meaning of this term differs from the term "side effect" because side effects can be beneficial as well as detrimental. The study of ADRs is the concern of the field known a...
126. ...st the drug on human subjects in the United States, the maker must first obtain an Investigational New Drug (IND) designation from FDA. This application is based on nonclinical data, typically from a **combination** of in vivo and in vitro laboratory safety studies, that shows the drug is safe enough to test in humans. Often the "new" drugs that are submitted for approval include new molecular entities or old me...
127. ...which decreases eye pressure. They are classified by their active ingredient and they include: prostaglandin analogs, beta blockers, alpha agonists, and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. There are also **combination** drugs available for those patients who require more than one type of medication. These make the eye's pupil widen to maximum, to let an optometrist have the best view inside the eyeball behind the ir...
128. ...tion with cellular proteins, particularly HMG domain proteins, has also been advanced as a mechanism of interfering with mitosis, although this is probably not its primary method of action. Cisplatin **combination** chemotherapy is the cornerstone of treatment of many cancers. Initial platinum responsiveness is high, but the majority of cancer patients will eventually relapse with cisplatin-resistant disease. Ma...
129. ...ty of the cytoplasm.  For a cell with a shell surrounding a homogeneous core with its surrounding medium considered as a layer, as seen in Figure 2, the overall dielectric response is obtained from a **combination** of the properties of the shell and core. where 1 is the core (in cellular terms, the cytoplasm), 2 is the shell (in a cell, the membrane). r1 is the radius from the centre of the sphere to the inside...
130. ...with an external separating force (a DEP force) being applied perpendicular to the flow. By means of different factors, such as diffusion and steric, hydrodynamic, dielectric and other effects, or a **combination** thereof, particles (<1 μm in diameter) with different dielectric or diffusive properties attain different positions away from the chamber wall, which, in turn, exhibit different characteristic concen...
131. ...DSM-V criteria, 9% of those who are exposed to cannabis develop cannabis use disorder, compared to 20% for cocaine, 23% for alcohol and 68% for nicotine. Cannabis use disorder in the DSM-V involves a **combination** of DSM-IV criteria for cannabis abuse and dependence, plus the addition of craving, without the criterion related to legal troubles. From a clinical perspective, two significant school of thought exi...
132. ...-metastatic colon cancer. The data from two large randomized studies showed no benefit in preventing the cancer from returning and a potential to cause harm in this setting. In the EU, bevacizumab in **combination** with fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for treatment of adults with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. In 2006, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved bevacizumab...
133. ...ults with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. In 2006, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved bevacizumab for use in first-line advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer in **combination** with carboplatin/paclitaxel chemotherapy. The approval was based on the pivotal study E4599 (conducted by the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group), which demonstrated a two-month improvement in overal...
134. ...erapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. Bevacizumab, in **combination** with erlotinib, is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR...
135. ...ed that breast cancer clinical studies of patients taking Avastin have shown no advantage in survival rates, no improvement in quality of life, and significant side effects. In the EU, bevacizumab in **combination** with paclitaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with metastatic breast cancer. Bevacizumab in combination with capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with metast...
136. ...t in quality of life, and significant side effects. In the EU, bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with metastatic breast cancer. Bevacizumab in **combination** with capecitabine is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with metastatic breast cancer in whom treatment with other chemotherapy options including taxanes or anthracyclines is not considered...
137. ...2009, the FDA approved bevacizumab for use in metastatic renal cell cancer (a form of kidney cancer). following earlier reports of activity EU approval was granted in 2007. In the EU, bevacizumab in **combination** with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. Bevacizumab slows tumor growth but does not affect overall survival in peopl...
138. ...U, bevacizumab gamma (Lytenava) is indicated for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (nAMD). In 2018, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved bevacizumab in **combination** with chemotherapy for stage III or IV of ovarian cancer after initial surgical operation, followed by single-agent bevacizumab. The approval was based on a study of the addition of bevacizumab to car...
139. ...izumab. The approval was based on a study of the addition of bevacizumab to carboplatin and paclitaxel. Progression-free survival was increased to 18 months from 13 months. In the EU, bevacizumab, in **combination** with carboplatin and paclitaxel is indicated for the front-line treatment of adults with advanced (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stages IIIB, IIIC and IV) epithelial ov...
140. ...tment of adults with advanced (International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stages IIIB, IIIC and IV) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. Bevacizumab, in **combination** with carboplatin and gemcitabine or in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel, is indicated for treatment of adults with first recurrence of platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube...
141. ...tion of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stages IIIB, IIIC and IV) epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. Bevacizumab, in combination with carboplatin and gemcitabine or in **combination** with carboplatin and paclitaxel, is indicated for treatment of adults with first recurrence of platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who have not received...
142. ...ritoneal cancer who have not received prior therapy with bevacizumab or other VEGF inhibitors or VEGF receptor-targeted agents. In May 2020, the FDA expanded the indication of olaparib to include its **combination** with bevacizumab for first-line maintenance treatment of adults with advanced epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in complete or partial response to first-line pl...
143. ...r is associated with homologous recombination deficiency positive status defined by either a deleterious or suspected deleterious BRCA mutation, and/or genomic instability. In the EU, bevacizumab, in **combination** with paclitaxel and cisplatin or, alternatively, paclitaxel and topotecan in people who cannot receive platinum therapy, is indicated for the treatment of adults with persistent, recurrent, or metast...
144. ...validated the hypothesis of Judah Folkman, proposed in 1971, that stopping angiogenesis might be useful in controlling cancer growth. It received its first approval in the United States in 2004, for **combination** use with standard chemotherapy for metastatic colon cancer. It has since been approved for use in certain lung cancers, renal cancers, ovarian cancers, and glioblastoma multiforme of the brain. In 20...
145. ...ant for this medicinal product is Outlook Therapeutics Limited. Lytenava was approved for medical use in the European Union in May 2024. In March 2007, the European Commission approved bevacizumab in **combination** with paclitaxel for the first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer. In 2008, the FDA approved bevacizumab for use in breast cancer. A panel of outside advisers voted 5 to 4 against approval, bu...
146. ...the treatment of pediatric osteosarcoma, and other sarcomas, such as leiomyosarcoma. Bevacizumab has been studied as a treatment for cancers that grow from the nerve connecting the ear and the brain. **Combination** therapy Combination therapy or polytherapy is therapy that uses more than one medication or modality. Typically, the term refers to using multiple therapies to treat a "single" disease, and often all...
147. ...iatric osteosarcoma, and other sarcomas, such as leiomyosarcoma. Bevacizumab has been studied as a treatment for cancers that grow from the nerve connecting the ear and the brain. Combination therapy **Combination** therapy or polytherapy is therapy that uses more than one medication or modality. Typically, the term refers to using multiple therapies to treat a "single" disease, and often all the therapies are p...
148. ...lity. Typically, the term refers to using multiple therapies to treat a "single" disease, and often all the therapies are pharmaceutical (although it can also involve non-medical therapy, such as the **combination** of medications and talk therapy to treat depression). 'Pharmaceutical' combination therapy may be achieved by prescribing/administering separate drugs, or, where available, dosage forms that contain...
149. ...sease, and often all the therapies are pharmaceutical (although it can also involve non-medical therapy, such as the combination of medications and talk therapy to treat depression). 'Pharmaceutical' **combination** therapy may be achieved by prescribing/administering separate drugs, or, where available, dosage forms that contain more than one active ingredient (such as fixed-dose combinations). Polypharmacy is...
150. ...lated term, referring to the use of multiple medications (without regard to whether they are for the same or separate conditions/diseases). Sometimes "polymedicine" is used to refer to pharmaceutical **combination** therapy. Most of these kinds of terms lack a universally consistent definition, so caution and clarification are often advisable. Conditions treated with combination therapy include tuberculosis, lep...
151. ...s used to refer to pharmaceutical combination therapy. Most of these kinds of terms lack a universally consistent definition, so caution and clarification are often advisable. Conditions treated with **combination** therapy include tuberculosis, leprosy, cancer, malaria, and HIV/AIDS. One major benefit of combination therapies is that they reduce development of drug resistance since a pathogen or tumor is less l...
152. ...consistent definition, so caution and clarification are often advisable. Conditions treated with combination therapy include tuberculosis, leprosy, cancer, malaria, and HIV/AIDS. One major benefit of **combination** therapies is that they reduce development of drug resistance since a pathogen or tumor is less likely to have resistance to multiple drugs simultaneously. Artemisinin-based monotherapies for malaria...
153. ...ikely to have resistance to multiple drugs simultaneously. Artemisinin-based monotherapies for malaria are explicitly discouraged to avoid the problem of developing resistance to the newer treatment. **Combination** therapy may seem costlier than monotherapy in the short term, but when it is used appropriately, it causes significant savings: lower treatment failure rate, lower case-fatality ratios, fewer side-ef...
154. ...savings: lower treatment failure rate, lower case-fatality ratios, fewer side-effects than monotherapy, slower development of resistance, and thus less money needed for the development of new drugs. **Combination** therapy has gained momentum in oncology in recent years, with various studies demonstrating higher response rates with combinations of drugs compared to monotherapies, and the FDA recently approving...
155. ...gained momentum in oncology in recent years, with various studies demonstrating higher response rates with combinations of drugs compared to monotherapies, and the FDA recently approving therapeutic **combination** regimens that demonstrated superior safety and efficacy to monotherapies. In a recent study about solid cancers, Martin Nowak, Bert Vogelstein, and colleagues showed that in most clinical cases, comb...
156. ...tion regimens that demonstrated superior safety and efficacy to monotherapies. In a recent study about solid cancers, Martin Nowak, Bert Vogelstein, and colleagues showed that in most clinical cases, **combination** therapies are needed to avoid the evolution of resistance to targeted drugs. Furthermore, they find that the simultaneous administration of multiple targeted drugs minimizes the chance of relapse whe...
157. ...eous administration of multiple targeted drugs minimizes the chance of relapse when no single mutation confers cross-resistance to both drugs. Various systems biology methods must be used to discover **combination** therapies to overcome drug resistance in select cancer types. Recent precision medicine approaches have focused on targeting multiple biomarkers found in individual tumors by using combinations of dr...
158. ...rket, there almost 45,000 possible two-drug combinations and almost 4.5 million three-drug combinations for to choose from. That level of complexity is one of the primary impediments to the growth of **combination** therapy in oncology. The National Cancer Institute has recently highlighted combination therapy as a top research priority in oncology. Combination therapy with two or more antibiotics are often used...
159. ...ug combinations for to choose from. That level of complexity is one of the primary impediments to the growth of combination therapy in oncology. The National Cancer Institute has recently highlighted **combination** therapy as a top research priority in oncology. Combination therapy with two or more antibiotics are often used in an effort to treat multi-drug resistant Gram-negative bacteria. Monotherapy, or the...
160. ...is one of the primary impediments to the growth of combination therapy in oncology. The National Cancer Institute has recently highlighted combination therapy as a top research priority in oncology. **Combination** therapy with two or more antibiotics are often used in an effort to treat multi-drug resistant Gram-negative bacteria. Monotherapy, or the use of a single therapy, can be applied to any therapeutic a...
161. ...ation and safety monitoring of medical products both before and after a product has been authorised for sale. Products covered by the scope of MedDRA include pharmaceuticals, vaccines and drug-device **combination** products. Intraosseous infusion Intraosseous infusion (IO) is the process of injecting medication, fluids, or blood products directly into the bone marrow; this provides a non-collapsible entry point...
162. ...of isopropyl nitrite abuse. A full recovery of visual acuity in longterm abuse could be demonstrated after drug abstinence. Studies have shown that poppers users who have HIV and/or use Sildenafil in **combination** with poppers are at an increased risk of developing poppers‐associated maculopathy. Foveal (center-of-gaze) damage has also been described, in six habitual users of isopropyl nitrite poppers. Further...
163. ...nature of 5-HTP, and the legal control of MDMA. In addition, other serotonergic euphoriant drugs, like the psychedelic LSD, have been reportedly used to drastically increase sexual pleasure. MDMA in **combination** with a PDE5 inhibitor (trade names Viagra, Levitra, and Cialis) is termed "sextasy". This combination increases libido and performance simultaneously. A PDE5 inhibitor taken alone has no effect on se...
164. ...e the psychedelic LSD, have been reportedly used to drastically increase sexual pleasure. MDMA in combination with a PDE5 inhibitor (trade names Viagra, Levitra, and Cialis) is termed "sextasy". This **combination** increases libido and performance simultaneously. A PDE5 inhibitor taken alone has no effect on sex drive, suggesting that serotonergic euphoriants like MDMA may actually increase libido while decreas...
165. ...action. Cancer cells could conceivably mutate to become resistant to a single agent, but by using different drugs "concurrently" it would be more difficult for the tumor to develop resistance to the **combination**. Holland, Freireich, and Frei simultaneously administered methotrexate (an antifolate), vincristine (a Vinca alkaloid), 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) and prednisone — together referred to as the POMP regim...
166. ...regimen — could cure patients with Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Currently, nearly all successful cancer chemotherapy regimens use this paradigm of multiple drugs given simultaneously, called **combination** chemotherapy or polychemotherapy. As predicted by studies in animal models, drugs were most effective when used in patients with tumours of smaller volume. Another important strategy developed from t...
167. ...e benefits of high doses of chemotherapy afforded by autologous bone marrow rescue are limited to both Hodgkin's and selected non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients who have failed therapy with conventional **combination** chemotherapy. Autologous transplantation continues to be used as a component of therapy for a number of other hematologic malignancies. The hormonal contribution to several categories of breast cance...
168. ...on of a new family of highly effective humanized monoclonal antibodies. Trastuzumab, a drug used to treat breast cancer, is a prime example. The discovery that certain toxic chemicals administered in **combination** can cure certain cancers ranks as one of the greatest in modern medicine. Childhood ALL (Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia), testicular cancer, and Hodgkins disease, previously universally fatal, are now...
169. ...actual nature of PNS, only bounds can be computed from an RCT, rather than a precise estimate. Tian and Pearl have derived tight bounds on PNS, based on multiple data sources, and Pearl showed that a **combination** of observational and experimental data may sometimes make the bounds collapse to a point estimate. Mueller and Pearl provide a conceptual interpretation for this phenomenon and illustrate its impact...
170. ...application of the spray, nabiximols is washed away from the oral mucosa by the saliva flow and ingested into the stomach, with subsequent absorption from the gastro-intestinal tract. Nabiximols is a **combination** drug standardized in composition, formulation, and dose. Its principal active components are the cannabinoids: tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD). Each spray delivers a dose of 2.7 mg T...
171. ...corrosion resistance properties.  Recent studies on hybrid foams have also been used to address non-renewable energy resources. Transition metal hybrid foams have previously been fabricated through a **combination** of electrodeposition and hydrogen bubbling processes to enhance the diffusivity of fluids through the porous material and improve the electrical properties for enhanced charge transfer. Thus, such fo...
172. ...ng agent (e.g. TiH) have been mixed, they are compressed into a compact, solid precursor, which can be available in the form of a billet, a sheet, or a wire. Production of precursors can be done by a **combination** of materials forming processes, such as powder pressing, extrusion (direct or conform) and flat rolling. Composite metal foam is made from a combination of homogeneous hollow metal spheres with a met...
173. ...ire. Production of precursors can be done by a combination of materials forming processes, such as powder pressing, extrusion (direct or conform) and flat rolling. Composite metal foam is made from a **combination** of homogeneous hollow metal spheres with a metallic matrix surrounding the spheres. This closed-cell metal foam isolates the pockets of air within and can be made out of nearly any metal, alloy, or c...
174. ...n of homogeneous hollow metal spheres with a metallic matrix surrounding the spheres. This closed-cell metal foam isolates the pockets of air within and can be made out of nearly any metal, alloy, or **combination**. The sphere sizes can be varied and fine-tuned per application. The mixture of air-filled hollow metal spheres and a metallic matrix provides both light weight and strength. The spheres are randomly...
175. ...y, and more than six million people in the developing world now receive treatment, up from little more than 2,000 in 2001. Hamied has also been influential in pioneering the development of multi-drug **combination** pills (also known as fixed-dose combinations, or FDCs), notably for HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB), asthma and other ailments chiefly affecting developing countries, as well as the development of pediat...
176. ...ates, melphalan is used as a high-dose conditioning treatment prior to hematopoietic progenitor (stem) cell transplantation in people with multiple myeloma. In the European Union, it is indicated, in **combination** with other cytotoxic medicinal products, as reduced intensity conditioning treatment prior to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation in malignant haematological diseases in adults. In Au...
177. ...h is used in birth control pills, menopausal hormone therapy, and for the treatment of gynecological disorders. The medication available in low-dose and high-dose formulations and is used alone or in **combination** with an estrogen. It is ingested orally. Side effects of NETA include menstrual irregularities, headaches, nausea, breast tenderness, mood changes, acne, increased hair growth, and others. NETA is a...
178. ...1964. It is sometimes referred to as a "first-generation" progestin. NETA is marketed widely throughout the world. It is available as a generic medication. NETA is used as a hormonal contraceptive in **combination** with estrogen, in the treatment of gynecological disorders such as abnormal uterine bleeding, and as a component of menopausal hormone therapy for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. NETA is availa...
179. ...ch as abnormal uterine bleeding, and as a component of menopausal hormone therapy for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. NETA is available in the form of tablets for use by mouth both alone and in **combination** with estrogens including estradiol, estradiol valerate, and ethinylestradiol. Transdermal patches providing a combination of 50 μg/day estradiol and 0.14 or 0.25 mg/day NETA are available under the b...
180. .... NETA is available in the form of tablets for use by mouth both alone and in combination with estrogens including estradiol, estradiol valerate, and ethinylestradiol. Transdermal patches providing a **combination** of 50 μg/day estradiol and 0.14 or 0.25 mg/day NETA are available under the brand names CombiPatch and Estalis. NETA was previously available for use by intramuscular injection in the form of ampoule...
181. ...lence, norethisterone and NETA are typically used at respective dosages of 0.35 mg/day and 0.6 mg/day as progestogen-only contraceptives, and at respective dosages of 0.5–1 mg/day and 1–1.5 mg/day in **combination** with ethinylestradiol in combined oral contraceptives. Conversely, the two drugs have been used at about the same dosages in menopausal hormone therapy for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. NETA...
182. ...ng AG filed for a patent for NETA in June 1957, and the patent was issued in December 1960. The drug was first marketed, by Parke-Davis as "Norlestrin" in the United States, in March 1964. This was a **combination** formulation of 2.5 mg NETA and 50 μg ethinylestradiol and was indicated as an oral contraceptive. Other early brand names of NETA used in oral contraceptives included "Minovlar" and "Anovlar". "Noret...
183. ...ates under the brand names Aygestin and Norlutate for the treatment of gynecological disorders. In addition, it is available under a large number of brand names at much lower dosages (0.1 to 1 mg) in **combination** with estrogens such as ethinylestradiol and estradiol as a combined oral contraceptive and for use in menopausal hormone therapy for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. NETA has been studied for us...
184. ...radiol as a combined oral contraceptive and for use in menopausal hormone therapy for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. NETA has been studied for use as a potential male hormonal contraceptive in **combination** with testosterone in men. Standard for the Uniform Scheduling of Medicines and Poisons The Standard for the Uniform Scheduling of Medicines and Poisons (SUSMP), also known as the Poisons Standard for...
185. ...avone is the reported allosteric binding site of CYP2C9 enzyme. Microemulsion Microemulsions are clear, thermodynamically stable, isotropic liquid mixtures of oil, water and surfactant, frequently in **combination** with a cosurfactant. The aqueous phase may contain salt(s) and/or other ingredients, and the "oil" may actually be a complex mixture of different hydrocarbons. In contrast to ordinary emulsions, micr...
186. ...cted from a biological (living) system, and requires, in addition to physicochemical testing, biological testing for full characterisation. The characterisation of a biological medicinal product is a **combination** of testing the active substance and the final medicinal product together with the production process and its control. For example: In the United States, biologics are licensed through the biologics l...
187. ...ukemia (CML) until it was displaced by the new gold standard, imatinib, though it is still in use to a degree as a result of the drug's relative low cost. Busulfan is used in pediatrics and adults in **combination** with cyclophosphamide or fludarabine/clofarabine as a conditioning agent prior to bone marrow transplantation, especially in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and other leukemias, lymphomas, and mye...
188. ...een overlooked.  These methods are the foundation to facilitate systematic searches of overlooked scientific and biomedical  literature which could carry significant association between research. The **combination** of information can stem new discoveries and hypotheses especially with the integration of datasets. It must be noted that the quality of the database is as important as the size of it. Promising text...
189. ...ase intermittent hypomobility ("off" episodes), where a decreased response to an anti-Parkinson drug such as -DOPA causes muscle stiffness and loss of muscle control. While apomorphine can be used in **combination** with -DOPA, the intention is usually to reduce the -DOPA dosing, as by this stage the patient often has many of dyskinesias caused by -DOPA and hypermobility periods. When an episode sets in, the apo...
190. ...ystem for treating asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and other respiratory diseases. The medication in a metered dose inhaler is most commonly a bronchodilator, corticosteroid or a **combination** of both for treating asthma and COPD. Other medications less commonly used but also administered by MDI are mast cell stabilizers, such as cromoglicate or nedocromil. A metered-dose inhaler consists...
191. ...omedex, MediSpan, Gold Standard Drug Database (published by Elsevier), and Cerner Multum MediSource Lexicon; these are cross-indexed by RxNorm, which also assigns a unique identifier (RxCUI) to every **combination** of active ingredient and dose level. Nano-thermite Nano-thermite or super-thermite is a metastable intermolecular composite (MIC) characterized by a particle size of its main constituents, a metal fu...
192. ...vant therapy, however. Such cancers include renal cell carcinoma, and certain forms of brain cancer. Hyperthermia therapy or heat therapy is also a kind of adjuvant therapy that is sometimes given in **combination** with radiotherapy or chemotherapy to boost the effects of these conventional treatments in treating advanced cancers. Heating the tumour area sensitises it making it more responsive to the other ther...
193. ...positive beliefs.  Giving two or more chemotherapeutic agents at once may decrease the chances of recurrence of the cancer, and increase overall survival in patients with breast cancer. Commonly used **combination** chemotherapy regimens used include: Roughly 15% of ovarian cancers are detected at the early stage, at which the 5-year survival rate is 92%. A Norwegian meta-analysis of 22 randomized studies involv...
194. ...dies have indicated decreased survival and increased risk of second malignancies following treatment. In advanced-stage endometrial cancer, adjuvant therapy is typically radiation, chemotherapy, or a **combination** of the two. While advanced-stage cancer makes up only about 15% of diagnoses, it accounts for 50% of deaths from endometrial cancer. Patients who undergo radiation and/or chemotherapy treatment will...
195. ...y dose The defined daily dose (DDD) is a statistical measure of drug consumption, defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) Collaborating Centre for Drug Statistics Methodology. It is defined in **combination** with the ATC Code drug classification system for grouping related drugs. The DDD enables comparison of drug usage between different drugs in the same group or between different health care environmen...
196. ...of a drug, however exceptions are made if some formulations are typically used in significantly different strengths (e.g., antibiotic injection in a hospital vs tablets in the community). The DDD of **combination** tablets (containing more than one drug) is more complex, most taking into account a "unit dose", though combination tablets used for high blood pressure take the number of doses per day into account....
197. ...(e.g., antibiotic injection in a hospital vs tablets in the community). The DDD of combination tablets (containing more than one drug) is more complex, most taking into account a "unit dose", though **combination** tablets used for high blood pressure take the number of doses per day into account. The formula for determining the dose is: The DDD of a drug is reviewed after three years. Ad hoc requests for chang...
198. ...multiple of any available tablet). Different people may in practice be prescribed higher or lower doses than the DDD, for instance in children, people with liver or kidney impairment, patients with a **combination** therapy, or due to differences in drug metabolism between individuals or ethnicities (genetic polymorphism). Although designed primarily for drug utilisation research, data using the DDD can only giv...
199. ...medication course is found to be ineffective. One option is to switch the patient to a different medication. Another option is to add a medication to the patient's current treatment. This can include **combination** therapy: the combination of two different types of antidepressants, or augmentation therapy: the addition of a non-antidepressant medication that may increase the effectiveness of the antidepressant....
200. ...d to be ineffective. One option is to switch the patient to a different medication. Another option is to add a medication to the patient's current treatment. This can include combination therapy: the **combination** of two different types of antidepressants, or augmentation therapy: the addition of a non-antidepressant medication that may increase the effectiveness of the antidepressant. Increasing the dosage of...
201. ...ole, quetiapine or olanzapine can be added to anti-depressants as part of augmentation of treatment. Eli Lilly, the company that sells both olanzapine and fluoxetine individually, has also released a **combination** formulation which contains olanzapine and fluoxetine in a single capsule. Some low to moderate quality evidence points to success in the short term (8–12 weeks) using mianserin (or antipsychotics car...
202. ...ies and technologies. Finding a system where all the proteins can be compared directly would be a major advance. If the proteins could be shown to be functional in bacteria ("S. typhimurium"), then a **combination** of the techniques of mag-fura 2, quantification of protein in the envelope membrane, and structure of the proteins (X-ray crystal or cryo-TEM) might allow the determination of the basic mechanisms in...
203. ...n used to provide consistency and alignment of treatment across the nation. In the 2022 quantitative analysis study of cardiovascular medications, the data suggests how adopting a common formulary of **combination** therapy and specific types of drug classes improved patient adherence and cardiovascular outcomes within the region. The study compared South Africa and 15 different South African Development Communi...
204. ...50s. These "formulaic" commercials usually claimed that Anacin was being actively prescribed by doctors and dentists at the time, treated "headaches, neuritis and neuralgia", and that it contained "a **combination** of medically proven ingredients, like a doctor's prescription", without specifying those ingredients. Sometimes the announcer would mention that there were four active ingredients in Anacin, one of w...
205. ...e found over the counter at local pharmacies. Because levonorgestrel does not have any life-threatening side effects, it has been approved by the FDA for use by all age groups. The Yuzpe regimen used **combination** oral contraceptives for EC and has been used since 1974. This regimen is no longer commonly used due to side effects such as nausea and vomiting, as well as the discovery of more effective methods. T...
206. ...ing observation, accident, and trial and error. One famous example is the discovery of penicillin, the first antibiotic in the world. The substance was discovered by Alexander Fleming in 1928 after a **combination** of unanticipated events occurred in his laboratory during his summer vacation. The "Penicillium" mold on the petri dish was believed to secrete a substance (later named "penicillin") that inhibited b...
207. ...ard nomenclature for colloids as particles in a size range having a dimension roughly between 1 nm and 1 μm. In addition to the classification by particle size, dispersions can also be labeled by the **combination** of the dispersed phase and the medium phase that the particles are suspended in. Aerosols are liquids dispersed in a gas, sols are solids in liquids, emulsions are liquids dispersed in liquids (more...
208. ...challenge of collecting and analyzing the data.  The following criteria serve as a basic framework for successful PAT roll-outs: (From A PAT Primer) In order to implement a successful PAT project, a **combination** of three main PAT tools is essential: The long-term goals of PAT are to: Currently NIR spectroscopy applications dominate the PAT projects. A possible next-generation solution is Energy Dispersive X-...
209. ...tomics, and proteomics, to identify the potential targets of the compound of interest. Reverse genetics and genomics approaches, for instance, uses genetic perturbation (e.g. CRISPR-Cas9 or siRNA) in **combination** with the compound to identify genes whose knockdown or knockout abolishes the pharmacological effect of the compound. On the other hand, transcriptomics and proteomics profiles of the compound can be...
210. ...gns the primary review responsibility to the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH), but also consults with the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) for the drug component of the **combination** product. The second type of DES to be approved by the EMA and the FDA were paclitaxel-eluting stents (PES), which release another natural product called paclitaxel. PES also reduced the need for repe...
211. ...ing of the substrate, by definition, will still function properly. In mixed inhibition the inhibitor may bind to the enzyme whether or not the substrate has already bound. Hence mixed inhibition is a **combination** of competitive and noncompetitive inhibition. Furthermore, the affinity of the inhibitor for the free enzyme and the enzyme-substrate complex may differ. By increasing concentrations of substrate [S]...
212. ...ms uses living cells as tools in biological research to elucidate the workings of normal and diseased cells. HCS is also used to discover and optimize new drug candidates. High content screening is a **combination** of modern cell biology, with all its molecular tools, with automated high resolution microscopy and robotic handling. Cells are first exposed to chemicals or RNAi reagents. Changes in cell morphology...
213. ...cation has been defined as the rate limiting step in chemical genetics/high-content screening. High-content screening technology is mainly based on automated digital microscopy and flow cytometry, in **combination** with IT-systems for the analysis and storage of the data. “High-content” or visual biology technology has two purposes, first to acquire spatially or temporally resolved information on an event and s...
214. ...de because the protein is required for development, growth or otherwise lethal when it is not there. Chemical knock out could address how and where these genes work. Further the technology is used in **combination** with RNAi to identify sets of genes involved in specific mechanisms, for example cell division. Here, libraries of RNAis, covering a whole set of predicted genes inside the target organism's genome c...
215. ...into a material with a large surface area (thanks to smaller pores), which in turn allows efficient molecular transport (which requires larger pores). The process used to produce these materials is a **combination** of the replication method, typically used to produce large-pore foams, and the selective dissolution method, generally used to manufacture small-pore foams. Ag foams with hierarchical porous structur...
216. ...the methods below. The particle size distribution can also be obtained using the autocorrelation function. However, polydisperse samples are not well resolved by the cumulant fit analysis. Thus, the **combination** of non-negative least squares (NNLS) algorithms with regularization methods, such as the Tikhonov regularization, can be used to resolve multimodal samples. An important feature of the NNLS optimizat...
217. ...ct on the transdermal permeation of drugs, others contradicted this information by displaying research that showed no quantitative effect using ultrasound. These early studies mainly investigated the **combination** of therapeutics with high-frequency sonophoresis (HFS), which can be categorized into frequencies greater than 0.7 MHz. High frequency sonophoresis usually includes a range between 0.7 – 16 MHz. Stud...
218. ...lace the coupling agent every so often. While sonophoresis alone is able to increase the permeability of skin by several factors depending on the procedure and the drug being delivered, a synergistic **combination** of sonophoresis with other enhancers, such as iontophoresis and electroporation, has shown greater enhancement as well as increased safety in reduction of individual enhancer parameters. Iontophoresi...
219. ...ophoresis as it is a method for transdermal drug delivery but does so by applying a voltage gradient across the skin. Since there are differences in pathways between iontophoresis and sonophoresis, a **combination** of these two methods allows for greater enhancement. For example, Le et al. displayed, for the case of heparin, that a combination of iontophoresis and sonophoresis resulted in a 56-fold enhancement...
220. ...re differences in pathways between iontophoresis and sonophoresis, a combination of these two methods allows for greater enhancement. For example, Le et al. displayed, for the case of heparin, that a **combination** of iontophoresis and sonophoresis resulted in a 56-fold enhancement of heparin flux in comparison to sonophoresis having a 3-fold enhancement and iontophoresis having a 15-fold enhancement. Electropo...
221. ...field. By applying short, high voltage pulses to the stratum corneum, the lipid structure will become disorganized and allow enhancement of drug delivery. There are currently very few reports of the **combination** of these modalities being used together. However, in these reports, there is mention that the transdermal enhancement created by the combination was greater than the sum of the individual enhancers,...
222. ...delivery. There are currently very few reports of the combination of these modalities being used together. However, in these reports, there is mention that the transdermal enhancement created by the **combination** was greater than the sum of the individual enhancers, suggesting that electroporation and sonophoresis work together synergistically. Phonophoresis can be performed using two main methods: The first...
223. ...rmeability of drugs with varying lipophilicity were investigated, such as atenolol and carteolol, increased by 2.6 and 2.8-fold respectively. Topical gene therapy is another area for investigation in **combination** with sonophoresis. Since there exists a need to enhance gene transfer into cells, sonophoresis has the ability to achieve higher transfection rate through acoustic cavitation. Additionally, there is...
224. ...the outlet of a compressor. Liquids from upstream of the compressor, which may include aerosol particles, entrained liquids or large volumes of liquids called "slugs" and which may be water and/or a **combination** of hydrocarbon liquids should be removed by a filter/coalescing vessel located upstream of the compressor. Efficiencies of gas/liquid coalescers are typically 0.3 μm (0.3 micron) liquid particles, wi...
225. ...ing assess activities such as personal care, activities of daily living and locomotor activities. Health-related quality of life instruments are generally multi-dimensional questionnaires assessing a **combination** of aspects of impairments and/or disability and reflect a patient's health status. In contrast, QoL goes beyond impairment and disability by asking about the patient's ability to fulfill their needs...
226. ...nic patient diaries and other applications. More recently, the term evolved to encompass the entire "business process" instead of individual technologies. An example of an "eClinical solution" is the **combination** of EDC and IVR systems where common data are shared in a way that eliminates the need for users to enter the same data or perform the same action in both applications. The shift in the definition of...
227. ...ng on the method/route of administration, which can include many types of liquid, solid, and semisolid forms. Common dosage forms include pills, tablets, capsules, drinks, and syrups, among others. A **combination** drug (or fixed-dose combination; FDC) is a product that contains more than one active ingredient (e.g., one tablet, one capsule, or one syrup with multiple drugs). In naturopathy, dosages can take th...
228. ...stration, which can include many types of liquid, solid, and semisolid forms. Common dosage forms include pills, tablets, capsules, drinks, and syrups, among others. A combination drug (or fixed-dose **combination**; FDC) is a product that contains more than one active ingredient (e.g., one tablet, one capsule, or one syrup with multiple drugs). In naturopathy, dosages can take the form of decoctions and herbal...
229. ...nd slab), and casting gating systems in metal foundries. Due to the foam’s unique pore structure and large specific surface area, it sees a use as a filter for wastewater. The filtration process is a **combination** of adsorption, surface filtration, and deep filtration with deep filtration providing a majority of the filtration process. Close-cell ceramic foam serves as a good insulation material for walls and...
230. ...toxicology. Softgel A softgel is an oral dosage form for medicine in the form of a specialized capsule. They consist of a shell, usually gelatin based, surrounding a liquid fill. Softgel shells are a **combination** of gelatin, water, opacifier and a plasticiser such as glycerin or sorbitol. Softgels are produced in a process known as encapsulation using the Rotary Die Encapsulation process invented by Robert Pa...
231. ...ia, Inc. from the fusion of five companies: Molecular Simulations Inc., Synopsys Scientific Systems, Oxford Molecular, the Genetics Computer Group (GCG), and Synomics Ltd. MSI, itself a result of the **combination** of Biodesign, Cambridge Molecular Design, Polygen and, later, Biocad and Biosym Technologies. In late 2003, Pharmacopeia, Inc. separated its drug discovery and software development businesses. The dr...
232. ...ORTRAK* 2 Enteral Access System".  The voluntary field correction led Avanos Medical to recall the product. The FDA identified it as a Class I recall, the most severe type of recall. In some cases, a **combination** of such actions may be necessary to fully correct the problem. Good automated manufacturing practice Good automated manufacturing practice (GAMP) is both a technical subcommittee of the International...
233. ...s and young adults. This overuse is common due to the relatively low cost, widespread availability, low perceived dangers, and internet culture associated with OTC medications. OTC medications may be **combination** formulations that contain multiple drugs. These combination formulations are often used with other substances, which complicates treatment for these types of overdoses. Furthermore, the easy access t...
234. ...vely low cost, widespread availability, low perceived dangers, and internet culture associated with OTC medications. OTC medications may be combination formulations that contain multiple drugs. These **combination** formulations are often used with other substances, which complicates treatment for these types of overdoses. Furthermore, the easy access to information online can sometimes lead to self-diagnosis an...
235. .... People who have poor liver function or with chronic alcohol use disorder should either limit or not ingest acetaminophen to prevent morbidities. Additionally, acetaminophen is an ingredient in many **combination** medications, increasing the risk of unintentional overdose. Consumers should read labels carefully and consult healthcare providers to ensure they are not consuming excessive doses. In cases of suspe...
236. ...se drug reaction. Almost 75% of clinic visits result in people obtaining a written prescription.  More careful prescribing practices could increase medication adherence in elderly people. Single-pill **combination** formulations make it easier for a person to monitor medications. Opioids are used for pain management acutely or prescribed after a surgical procedure. While opioids aid in short- and long-term pain...
237. ...actices. In Curanderismo, Santería, and Espiritismo, the practitioners assess the patient and, depending on diagnosis, prepares a healing remedy or a variety of healing remedies. This may contain any **combination** of medicinal herbs, religious amulets, and/or other products used for the prevention, treatment, or palliation of folk and somatic illnesses. Ultimately, botánicas serve as a bridge in efforts to dev...
238. ...and a thorough synthesis of high-quality evidence. Policymakers are able to use these reports and research products to make informed policy decisions that improve patient outcomes and contain costs. **Combination** drug A combination drug or a fixed-dose combination (FDC) is a medicine that includes two or more active ingredients combined in a single dosage form. Terms like "combination drug" or "combination dr...
239. ...thesis of high-quality evidence. Policymakers are able to use these reports and research products to make informed policy decisions that improve patient outcomes and contain costs. Combination drug A **combination** drug or a fixed-dose combination (FDC) is a medicine that includes two or more active ingredients combined in a single dosage form. Terms like "combination drug" or "combination drug product" can be...
240. ...Policymakers are able to use these reports and research products to make informed policy decisions that improve patient outcomes and contain costs. Combination drug A combination drug or a fixed-dose **combination** (FDC) is a medicine that includes two or more active ingredients combined in a single dosage form. Terms like "combination drug" or "combination drug product" can be common shorthand for an FDC produ...
241. ...comes and contain costs. Combination drug A combination drug or a fixed-dose combination (FDC) is a medicine that includes two or more active ingredients combined in a single dosage form. Terms like "**combination** drug" or "combination drug product" can be common shorthand for an FDC product (since most combination drug products are currently FDCs), although the latter is more precise if in fact referring to a...
242. ...s. Combination drug A combination drug or a fixed-dose combination (FDC) is a medicine that includes two or more active ingredients combined in a single dosage form. Terms like "combination drug" or "**combination** drug product" can be common shorthand for an FDC product (since most combination drug products are currently FDCs), although the latter is more precise if in fact referring to a mass-produced product...
243. ...icine that includes two or more active ingredients combined in a single dosage form. Terms like "combination drug" or "combination drug product" can be common shorthand for an FDC product (since most **combination** drug products are currently FDCs), although the latter is more precise if in fact referring to a mass-produced product having a predetermined combination of drugs and respective dosages (as opposed t...
244. ...mmon shorthand for an FDC product (since most combination drug products are currently FDCs), although the latter is more precise if in fact referring to a mass-produced product having a predetermined **combination** of drugs and respective dosages (as opposed to "customized" polypharmacy via compounding). And it should also be distinguished from the term "combination product" in medical contexts, which without f...
245. ...mass-produced product having a predetermined combination of drugs and respective dosages (as opposed to "customized" polypharmacy via compounding). And it should also be distinguished from the term "**combination** product" in medical contexts, which without further specification can refer to products that combine different "types" of medical products—such as device/drug combinations as opposed to drug/drug com...
246. ...al contexts, which without further specification can refer to products that combine different "types" of medical products—such as device/drug combinations as opposed to drug/drug combinations. When a **combination** drug product (whether fixed-dose or not) is a "pill" (i.e., a tablet or capsule), then it may also be a kind of "polypill" or combopill. Initially, fixed-dose combination drug products were developed...
247. ...ug/drug combinations. When a combination drug product (whether fixed-dose or not) is a "pill" (i.e., a tablet or capsule), then it may also be a kind of "polypill" or combopill. Initially, fixed-dose **combination** drug products were developed to target a single disease (such as with antiretroviral FDCs used against AIDS). However, FDCs may also target multiple diseases/conditions. In cases of FDCs targeting mu...
248. ...atients in order to justify its manufacture, distribution, stocking, etc. Over-the-counter medicines: Prescription drugs: In addition to simply being a means of facilitating the general advantages of **combination** therapy, specific advantages of fixed-dose combination (FDC) drug products include: Medical Products Agency (Sweden) The Medical Products Agency (MPA; ) is the government agency in Sweden responsible...
249. ...on, stocking, etc. Over-the-counter medicines: Prescription drugs: In addition to simply being a means of facilitating the general advantages of combination therapy, specific advantages of fixed-dose **combination** (FDC) drug products include: Medical Products Agency (Sweden) The Medical Products Agency (MPA; ) is the government agency in Sweden responsible for regulation and surveillance of the development, ma...
250. ...ality, cost and choice of competitor drugs by choosing the item that has been most thoroughly investigated, has favorable pharmacokinetic properties and is reliably produced locally. The avoidance of **combination** drugs is also encouraged. The routine and irrational use of injections should also be challenged. One study undertaken in Indonesia found that nearly 50% of infants and children and 75% of the patien...
251. ...ion. For example, when Tc is chemically bound to exametazime (HMPAO), the drug is able to cross the blood–brain barrier and flow through the vessels in the brain for cerebral blood-flow imaging. This **combination** is also used for labeling white blood cells (Tc labeled WBC) to visualize sites of infection. Tc sestamibi is used for myocardial perfusion imaging, which shows how well the blood flows through the h...
252. ...t" comes from the Latin word , meaning to help or aid. "An immunologic adjuvant is defined as any substance that acts to accelerate, prolong, or enhance antigen-specific immune responses when used in **combination** with specific vaccine antigens." In the early days of vaccine manufacture, significant variations in the efficacy of different batches of the same vaccine were correctly assumed to be caused by conta...
253. ...oap bark tree. Monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL), a detoxified version of the lipopolysaccharide from the bacterium "Salmonella" Minnesota, interacts with the receptor TLR4 to enhance immune response. The **combination** of QS-21, cholesterol and MPL forms the adjuvant AS01 which is used in the Shingrix vaccine approved in 2017, as well as in the approved malaria vaccine Mosquirix. The adjuvant Matrix-M is an immune...
254. ...the symptoms and may directly contribute to increased severity of symptoms. The reasons for toxicity vary depending on the mixture of drugs. Usually, most victims die after using two or more drugs in **combination** that suppress breathing, and the low blood oxygen level causes brain death. Pharmaceutical policy Pharmaceutical policy is a branch of health policy that deals with the development, provision and use...
255. ...presence of prostate cancer. Taking saw palmetto can artificially reduce the levels of PSA, interfering with test results. Saw palmetto extract has interactions with other medications.  When used in **combination** with an anticoagulant or anti-platelet drug, saw palmetto extract can increase the risk of bleeding by enhancing the anticoagulation or anti-platelet effects. Some examples of anticoagulant and anti-...
256. ...edica) Processing (, or ) in Chinese "materia medica" (Chinese herbology) is the technique of altering the properties, sterilizing and removing poisons of crude medicines by processing using heat and **combination** with various materials in a kind of alchemical approach to preparation. It lacks scientific evidence and hence is considered as pseudoscientific. Pao Zhi processing may involve such means as washing,...
257. ...nd Drug Administration (FDA) approved bedaquiline (marketed as Sirturo by Johnson & Johnson) to treat multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, the first new treatment in 40 years. Sirturo is to be used in a **combination** therapy for patients who have failed standard treatment and have no other options. Sirturo is an adenosine triphosphate synthase (ATP synthase) inhibitor. The resurgence of tuberculosis in the United...
258. ...s all fluid preparations of the kind referred to, whether for internal administration or local application. Glycerites may consist of either "vegetable" source glycerin, "animal" source glycerin or a **combination** of the two. In the case of liquid herbal products (a segment of the dietary supplements industry), the general rule is to utilize vegetable glycerin only, while nutraceuticals (another segment of the...
259. ...roducts (a segment of the dietary supplements industry), the general rule is to utilize vegetable glycerin only, while nutraceuticals (another segment of the dietary supplements industry) might use a **combination** of both vegetable and animal source derived glycerin. Alcohol-free (as opposed to alcohol-removed) glycerite products, in which alcohol is never used or added at any time, are preferred by those desi...
260. ...e additivity (or dose additivity) is one of several common reference models used for measuring the effects of drug combinations. Let formula_1 and formula_2 be doses of compounds 1 and 2 producing in **combination** an effect formula_3. We denote by formula_4 and formula_5 the doses of compounds 1 and 2 required to produce effect formula_3 alone (assuming this conditions uniquely define them, i.e. that the indiv...
261. ...and formula_17 the dose-response functions of compound 1, compound 2 and of the mixture respectively, then dose additivity holds when  The Loewe additivity equation provides a prediction of the dose **combination** eliciting a given effect. Departure from Loewe additivity can be assessed informally by comparing this prediction to observations. This approach is known in toxicology as the model deviation ratio (M...
262. ...tobacco use. Systematic reviews show that psychosocial interventions can help women stop smoking in late pregnancy, reducing low birthweight and preterm births. A 2016 Cochrane review showed that the **combination** of medication and behavioural support was more effective than minimal interventions or usual care. Another Cochrane review "suggests that neither reducing smoking to quit nor quitting abruptly result...
263. ...onducted by Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), have been conducted under various ranges of conditions; Antibodies from an originator's product versus antibodies from a biosimilar; **combination** therapy and monotherapy; various diseases, etc. on the purpose to verify comparability in pharmacokinetics of the biosimilar with the reference medicinal product in a sufficiently sensitive and homog...
264. ...ribed by medical experts as the "Vaccine Gap." For instance, Japan is the only developed country that does not list mumps on the vaccine schedule. It's also noted that the government approval for new **combination** vaccines usually takes longer than other developed countries, such as the United States. One reason behind the vaccine gap is that the government was sued several times for negligence of duty of care...
265. ...front-line therapy) is the first therapy that will be tried. Its priority over other options is usually either: (1) formally recommended on the basis of clinical trial evidence for its best-available **combination** of efficacy, safety, and tolerability or (2) chosen based on the clinical experience of the physician. If a first-line therapy either fails to resolve the issue or produces intolerable side effects,...
266. ...successfully treating some forms of cancer, one line after another may be tried. In oncology the count of therapy lines may reach 10 or even 20. Often multiple therapies may be tried simultaneously (**combination** therapy or polytherapy). Thus combination chemotherapy is also called polychemotherapy, whereas chemotherapy with one agent at a time is called single-agent therapy or monotherapy. Adjuvant therapy i...
267. ...r, one line after another may be tried. In oncology the count of therapy lines may reach 10 or even 20. Often multiple therapies may be tried simultaneously (combination therapy or polytherapy). Thus **combination** chemotherapy is also called polychemotherapy, whereas chemotherapy with one agent at a time is called single-agent therapy or monotherapy. Adjuvant therapy is therapy given in addition to the primary...
268. ...buildup of an electric surface charge, expressed usually in C/m. This surface charge creates an electrostatic field that then affects the ions in the bulk of the liquid. This electrostatic field, in **combination** with the thermal motion of the ions, creates a counter charge, and thus screens the electric surface charge. The net electric charge in this screening diffuse layer is equal in magnitude to the net s...
269. ...electro-osmotic flow. Since the electrophoresis chamber is a closed system, backward flow is produced at the center of the cell. Then the observed mobility or velocity from Eq. (7) is a result of the **combination** of osmotic flow and electrophoretic movement. Electrophoretic mobility analysis has been studied by Mori and Okamoto [16], who have taken into account the effect of electro-osmotic flow at the side w...
270. ...rengths. ELS has been used to characterize the polydispersity, nanodispersity, and stability of single-walled carbon nanotubes in an aqueous environment with surfactants. The technique can be used in **combination** with dynamic light scattering to measure these properties of nanotubes in many different solvents. (1) Surfactant Science Series, Consulting Editor Martin J. Schick Consultant New York, Vol. 76 Elect...
271. ...oms in d- or f-type orbitals. In molecule-based magnets, the structural building blocks are molecular in nature. These building blocks are either purely organic molecules, coordination compounds or a **combination** of both. In this case, the unpaired electrons may reside in d or f orbitals on isolated metal atoms, but may also reside in highly localized s and p orbitals as well on the purely organic species. Li...
272. ...limb. This allows the person to receive a high dose of drugs in the area where the cancer occurred. The temperature is also increased to 42C causing an increased uptake of the drug by the tumor. The **combination** of high drug dose and high temperature is toxic systemically, thus the isolation of the limb. Blood flow through the limb is typically achieved using an extracorporeal circuit consisting of cannulae,...
273. ...zation while being able to avoid the particle aggregation issue caused by remnant magnetization. Iron oxide is a common metal used for this purpose, which is usually used as magnetite, maghemite or a **combination** of the two, due to their high magnetization values between the different iron oxides. Iron oxide gives the impression of lacking remnant magnetization even though magnetite and maghemite are ferromag...
274. ...us through ancestry, apprenticeship/observational practice, or through an epiphany and are generally performed by the elders of the community, regardless of gender. Their practice, or panambal, has a **combination** of elements from Christianity and sorcery which appear to be opposites since one involves faith healing while the other requires Black magic, Witchcraft, etc. The combinations are a reflection of the...
275. ...Philippines, a term used most especially in the islands of Siquijor and Bohol in the Visayas. The term is synonymous with the Tagalog word "albularyo", a type of folk healer. The "mananambal" uses a **combination** of traditional practice and Christian beliefs. The amalgamation of folk healing and Christian spiritism may have begun at the onset of the Spanish influence in the Philippines – when Magellan convert...
276. ...prayer or blessing the patients directly. Orasyons can be combined with other treatments. Botany and prayers can be combined with other remedies. "Tayhop" is a ritual procedure performed through the **combination** of the blowing the patient's head gently with prayer. Another ritual procedure that is accompanied with orasyon is tutho, the application of saliva on the patient's head. Supernatural procedures cons...
277. ...od pressure or make heart failure even worse. The most compelling contraindication is urinary incontinence and overall fluid retention. To combat such fluid retention, patients can take a diuretic in **combination** with the alpha-blocker. In the absence of compelling indications or contraindications, patients should take alpha blockers as a step 4 therapy to reduce blood pressure, but only if the use of ACE inh...
278. ...be obtained within 24 hours. This technology makes crystallographic fragment screening possible, i.e. the use of X-ray crystallography directly for the fragment screening step. Once a fragment (or a **combination** of fragments) have been identified, protein X-ray crystallography is used to obtain structural models of the protein- complexes. Such information can then be used to guide organic synthesis for high-...
279. ...le strengths. The polymer should be readily available and should not be very expensive. Film obtained should be tough enough so that there won't be any damage while handling or during transportation. **Combination** of microcrystalline cellulose and maltodextrin has been used to formulate Oral Strips of piroxicam made by hot melt extrusion technique. Pullulan has been the most widely used film former (used in Li...
280. ...ere symptoms inpatient care is often required. In those with lesser symptoms treatment at home may be possible with daily visits with a health care provider. Cohort studies have demonstrated that the **combination** of anticonvulsants and benzodiazepines is more effective than other treatments in reducing alcohol withdrawal scores and shortening the duration of intensive care unit stays. Benzodiazepines are the...
281. ...er addiction. Furthermore, disrupted GABA benzodiazepine receptor function is part of alcohol dependence and chronic benzodiazepines may prevent full recovery from alcohol induced mental effects. The **combination** of benzodiazepines and alcohol can amplify the adverse psychological effects of each other causing enhanced depressive effects on mood and increase suicidal actions and are generally contraindicated...
282. ...in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal syndrome. Limited evidence supports the use of gabapentin or carbamazepine for the treatment of mild or moderate alcohol withdrawal as the sole treatment or as **combination** therapy with other medications; however, gabapentin does not appear to be effective for treatment of severe alcohol withdrawal and is therefore not recommended for use in this setting. A 2010 Cochran...
283. ...ue to withdrawal. There are three medications used to help prevent a return to drinking: naltrexone, acamprosate, and disulfiram. They are used after withdrawal has occurred. Clonidine may be used in **combination** with benzodiazepines to help some of the symptoms. No conclusions can be drawn concerning the efficacy or safety of baclofen for alcohol withdrawal syndrome due to the insufficiency and low quality o...
284. ...use disorder in which an individual uses at least three different classes of substances indiscriminately and does not have a favorite substance that qualifies for dependence on its own. Although any **combination** of three substances can be used, studies have shown that alcohol is commonly used with another substance. One study on polysubstance use categorized participants who used multiple substances accordin...
285. ...e, alcohol, and heroin, which implies that those three are very popular. Other studies have found that opiates, cannabis, amphetamines, hallucinogens, inhalants, and benzodiazepines are often used in **combination** as well. Cognition refers to what happens in the mind, such as mental functions like "perception, attention, memory, language, problem solving, reasoning, and decision making." Although many studies...
286. ...ive functions more severely than if used separately. Alcohol's negative effects on learning, spatial abilities and memory has been shown in many studies. This raises a question: does using alcohol in **combination** with other substances impair cognitive functioning even more? One study decided to try to determine if people with polysubstance use who also recreationally use alcohol would display poorer performan...
287. ...reater risk for fatty liver disease, hypertension, anemia, and other disorders. Augmentation (pharmacology) Augmentation, in the context of the pharmacological management of psychiatry, refers to the **combination** of two or more drugs to achieve better treatment results. Examples include: In pharmacology, the term is occasionally used to describe treatments that increase (augment) the concentration of some sub...
288. ...nt's medical records and their medication history. Having access to this information from all health care providers at the time of prescribing can support alerts related to drug inappropriateness, in **combination** with other medications or with specific medical issues at hand. Electronic prescribing has been shown to reduce prescribing errors by up to 30%. According to estimates, almost 30 percent of prescript...
289. ...ng tablets but naratriptan, almotriptan, eletriptan and frovatriptan are only available in tablets, for now. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a new drug April 15, 2008, which is a **combination** of sumatriptan 85 mg and naproxen 500 mg (NSAID). Triptans and NSAIDs work on distinct mechanism involved in migraine and therefore may offer improved treatment when administrated together. Pharmacok...
290. ...nologies and typically fit into one of three technology types: The type of PFAS remediation technology selected is often a reflection of the PFAS contamination levels and the PFAS signature (i.e. the **combination** of short- and long-chain PFAS substances present) in conjunction with the site-specific water chemistry and cross contaminants present in the liquid stream. More complex waters such as landfill leach...
291. ...of the same size and a different number of small particles attached to each one. A narrow size range of the carrier particles is preferred to avoid segregation of the interactive units. In practice a **combination** of a random mixture and an interactive mixture may be obtained which consists of carrier particles, aggregates of the small particles and interactive units. The formation of interactive mixtures cann...
292. ...es, Eli Lilly and Company, has long since lost any patent to the drug. Amerifit, which manufactured generic Supprettes prior to 2008, was cautioned by the FDA due to the unapproved nature of the drug **combination**. Since 2008, Paddock Laboratories has manufactured a generic version of the Supprettes after working with the FDA on marketing issues related to the unapproved nature of the drug. The drug and its ge...
293. ...ss of salt form or plant part and extract.  Seq1 is used to uniquely identify different variations (e.g. salts and esters), plant parts and extraction methods, thereby defining active substances or a **combination** of active substances. WHODrug records sharing the same Drug Rec No and Seq1 contain the same variation/plant part/extract variation of the same active moiety. For single-ingredient records, Seq1=01 i...
294. ...For single-ingredient records, Seq1=01 identifies a specific active moiety. If Seq1 is higher than 01 it refers to variations of that active moiety. For multi-ingredient records, Seq1=01 identifies a **combination** of active moieties. If Seq1 is higher than 01 it refers to variations of one or more of the active moieties in the combination. Finally, Seq2 uniquely identifies the name of the record in WHODrug. Ex...
295. ...f that active moiety. For multi-ingredient records, Seq1=01 identifies a combination of active moieties. If Seq1 is higher than 01 it refers to variations of one or more of the active moieties in the **combination**. Finally, Seq2 uniquely identifies the name of the record in WHODrug. Example The Drug Code for the substance Ibuprofen is 001092 01 001. The Drug Code for the trade name Advil infants pain & fever r...

=== EFFECTIVENESS (225 occurrences) ===
1. ...ald Loe (at the time a professor at the Royal Dental College in Aarhus, Denmark) demonstrated that a chlorhexidine compound could prevent the build-up of dental plaque. The reason for chlorhexidine's **effectiveness** is that it strongly adheres to surfaces in the mouth and thus remains present in effective concentrations for many hours. Since then commercial interest in mouthwashes has been intense and several ne...
2. ...y adheres to surfaces in the mouth and thus remains present in effective concentrations for many hours. Since then commercial interest in mouthwashes has been intense and several newer products claim **effectiveness** in reducing the build-up in dental plaque and the associated severity of gingivitis, in addition to fighting bad breath. Many of these solutions aim to control the volatile sulfur compound–creating a...
3. ...rmatophyte that naturally produces antibiotics. Also, many soil fungi and bacteria are natural competitors and the original antibiotic penicillin discovered by Alexander Fleming rapidly lost clinical **effectiveness** in treating humans and, furthermore, none of the other natural penicillins (F, K, N, X, O, U1 or U6) are currently in clinical use. Antimicrobial resistance can be acquired from other microbes throug...
4. ...tions are not always confirmed. This can lead to unnecessary antimicrobial use, a pattern which may have worsened during the COVID-19 pandemic. Studies have shown that common misconceptions about the **effectiveness** and necessity of antibiotics to treat common mild illnesses contribute to their overuse. Important to the conversation of antibiotic use is the veterinary medical system. Veterinary oversight is requ...
5. ...Study in a Secondary Care Setting in the UK," highlights the urgency of reevaluating antibiotic treatment durations amidst the global challenge of antimicrobial resistance (AMR). It investigates the **effectiveness** of shorter versus longer antibiotic regimens for respiratory tract infections (RTIs) in a UK secondary care setting, emphasizing the need for evidence-based prescribing practices to optimize patient...
6. ...e proper use of infrastructure for water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) can result in a 47–72 percent decrease of diarrhea cases treated with antibiotics depending on the type of intervention and its **effectiveness**. A reduction of the diarrhea disease burden through improved infrastructure would result in large decreases in the number of diarrhea cases treated with antibiotics. This was estimated as ranging fro...
7. ...to DNA gyrase, protecting it from the action of quinolones. Finally, mutations at key sites in DNA gyrase or topoisomerase IV can decrease their binding affinity to quinolones, decreasing the drug's **effectiveness**. Some bacteria are naturally resistant to certain antibiotics; for example, gram-negative bacteria are resistant to most β-lactam antibiotics due to the presence of β-lactamase. Antibiotic resistance...
8. ...al resistance. While theoretically promising, antistaphylococcal vaccines have shown limited efficacy, because of immunological variation between "Staphylococcus" species, and the limited duration of **effectiveness** of the antibodies produced. Development and testing of more effective vaccines is underway. Two registrational trials have evaluated vaccine candidates in active immunization strategies against "S. a...
9. ...obstacle. He has helped the terrorists.' In December 2005, Rumsfeld again visited Kabul and met with the Afghan defense minister, Rahim Wardak. During the meeting, Rumsfeld expressed doubts about the **effectiveness** of the Afghan army and attributed the worsening situation in Afghanistan to ineffective governance. He criticized the longstanding plan to expand the Afghan army to 70,000 troops and requested a redu...
10. ...MS program called iPLEDGE. Generic drugs are chemical and therapeutic equivalents of name-brand drugs, normally whose patents have expired. Approved generic drugs should have the same dosage, safety, **effectiveness**, strength, stability, and quality, as well as route of administration. In general, they are less expensive than their name brand counterparts, are manufactured and marketed by rival companies and, in...
11. ...ensure risks of a drug never outweigh the benefits of that drug within the post-marketing period. This program requires that manufacturers design and implement periodic assessments of their programs' **effectiveness**. The Risk Minimization Action Plans are set in place depending on the overall level of risk a prescription drug is likely to pose to the public. Prior to the 1990s, only 20% of all drugs prescribed f...
12. ...rteriovenous malformations and other surgically treatable conditions. Cardiology, atherosclerosis and vascular disease study: FDG PET can help in identifying hibernating myocardium. However, the cost-**effectiveness** of PET for this role versus SPECT is unclear. FDG PET imaging of atherosclerosis to detect patients at risk of stroke is also feasible. Also, it can help test the efficacy of novel anti-atheroscleros...
13. ...ligand-receptor complex either through weak attractive forces (reversible) or covalent bond (irreversible), therefore efficacy is dependent on binding affinity. Potency of drug is the measure of its **effectiveness**, EC is the drug concentration of a drug that produces an efficacy of 50% and the lower the concentration the higher the potency of the drug therefore EC can be used to compare potencies of drugs. Med...
14. ...oved drugs fulfill two requirements: Gaining FDA approval usually takes several years. Testing done on animals must be extensive and must include several species to help in the evaluation of both the **effectiveness** and toxicity of the drug. The dosage of any drug approved for use is intended to fall within a range in which the drug produces a therapeutic effect or desired outcome. The safety and effectiveness o...
15. ...e effectiveness and toxicity of the drug. The dosage of any drug approved for use is intended to fall within a range in which the drug produces a therapeutic effect or desired outcome. The safety and **effectiveness** of prescription drugs in the U.S. are regulated by the federal Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) has a similar role in the UK. Me...
16. ...f the efficacy of narcoanalysis in interrogation or lie detection, there is dispute whether any of them qualify as a randomized, controlled study, that would meet scientific standards for determining **effectiveness**. India's Central Bureau of Investigation has used intravenous barbiturates for interrogation, often in high-profile cases. One such case was the interrogation of Ajmal Kasab, the only terrorist captu...
17. ...e veracity of a defendant's plea of insanity... would provoke intense legal argument relating to Holmes's right to remain silent under the fifth amendment of the US constitution." Discussing possible **effectiveness** of such an examination, psychiatrist August Piper stated that "amytal's inhibition-lowering effects in no way prompt the subject to offer up true statements or memories." "Psychology Today" Scott Lin...
18. ...ly been the most fashionable trend in the pharmaceutical industry in recent times, a large proportion of new chemical entities still are nature-derived compounds, and thus, it has been suggested that **effectiveness** of combinatorial chemistry could be improved by enhancing the chemical diversity of screening libraries. As chirality and rigidity are the two most important features distinguishing approved drugs an...
19. ...ho used water-pipes, as opposed to cigarettes, cigars, and regular pipes. "It appears that water filtration can be effective in removing components from cannabis smoke that are known toxicants... The **effectiveness** of toxicant removal is related to the smoke's water contact area." Specially designed water pipes, incorporating particulate filters and gas-dispersion frits, would likely be most effective in this r...
20. ...l cell functions and modifies the actions of several neurotransmitter systems. Alcohol inhibits glutamate (a major excitatory neurotransmitter in the nervous system) neurotransmission by reducing the **effectiveness** at the NMDA receptor, which is related to memory loss associated with intoxication. It also modulates the function of GABA, a major inhibitory amino acid neurotransmitter. Abuse of alcohol has also b...
21. ...ally requires a dopamine antagonism of 60%–80% of dopamine D receptors. First generation (typical) antipsychotics: Traditional neuroleptics modify several neurotransmitter systems, but their clinical **effectiveness** is most likely due to their ability to antagonize dopamine transmission by competitively blocking the receptors or by inhibiting dopamine release. The most serious and troublesome side effects of the...
22. ...large phase III studies of lisdexamfetamine (a prodrug to amphetamine) as an adjunct to an SSRI or SNRI in the treatment of major depressive disorder showed no further benefit relative to placebo in **effectiveness**. Numerous studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of drugs such as Adderall (a mixture of salts of amphetamine and dextroamphetamine) in controlling symptoms associated with ADHD. Due to their av...
23. ...g to amphetamine) as an adjunct to an SSRI or SNRI in the treatment of major depressive disorder showed no further benefit relative to placebo in effectiveness. Numerous studies have demonstrated the **effectiveness** of drugs such as Adderall (a mixture of salts of amphetamine and dextroamphetamine) in controlling symptoms associated with ADHD. Due to their availability and fast-acting effects, substituted amphet...
24. ...n those with glaucoma but does not appear to affect normal individuals. It may protect people from liver cirrhosis. There is no evidence that coffee stunts a child's growth. Caffeine may increase the **effectiveness** of some medications including ones used to treat headaches. Caffeine may lessen the severity of acute mountain sickness if taken a few hours prior to attaining a high altitude. Ephedrine is a sympath...
25. ...to treat excessive daytime sleepiness due to narcolepsy, shift work sleep disorder, or obstructive sleep apnea. While it has seen off-label use as a purported cognitive enhancer, the research on its **effectiveness** for this use is not conclusive. Despite being a CNS stimulant, the addiction and dependence liabilities of modafinil are considered very low. Although modafinil shares biochemical mechanisms with sti...
26. ...er, especially considering that modafinil is not commonly abused or depended on by people, unlike other stimulants. Psychosocial treatments, such as contingency management, have demonstrated improved **effectiveness** when added to treatment as usual consisting of counseling and/or case-management. This is demonstrated with a decrease in dropout rates and a lengthening of periods of abstinence. The presence of sti...
27. ...efecation. By regularly emptying the bowel using transanal irrigation, controlled bowel function is often re-established to a high degree, thus enabling development of a consistent bowel routine. Its **effectiveness** varies considerably, some individuals experiencing complete control of incontinence but others reporting little or no benefit. An international consensus on when and how to use transanal irrigation f...
28. ...at both midwives and man-midwives commonly administered clysters to labouring mothers just prior to their delivery. Clysters were administered for symptoms of constipation and, with more questionable **effectiveness**, stomach aches and other illnesses. In 1753 an enema bag prepared from a pig's or beef's bladder attached to a tube was described by Johann Jacob Woyts as an alternative to a syringe. In the 18th cen...
29. ...they foam less strongly. The differences between the individual types of non-ionic surfactants are slight, and the choice is primarily governed having regard to the costs of special properties (e.g., **effectiveness** and efficiency, toxicity, dermatological compatibility, biodegradability) or permission for use in food. Fatty acid ethoxylates are a class of very versatile surfactants, which combine in a single mo...
30. ...osan or zinc chloride prevent gingivitis and, according to the American Dental Association, helps reduce tartar and bad breath. A 2006 review of clinical research concluded there was evidence for the **effectiveness** of 0.30% triclosan in reducing plaque and gingivitis. Another Cochrane review in 2013 has found that triclosan achieved a 22% reduction in plaque, and in gingivitis, a 48% reduction in bleeding gums....
31. ...eptide-based systems, hydroxyapatite nanocrystals and a variety of calcium phosphates have been advocated as remineralization agents; however, more clinical evidence is required to substantiate their **effectiveness**. Agents are added to suppress the tendency of toothpaste to dry into a powder. Included are various sugar alcohols, such as glycerol, sorbitol, or xylitol, or related derivatives, such as 1,2-propyle...
32. ...any of the herbal toothpastes being sold in India were adulterated with nicotine. Charcoal has also been incorporated in toothpaste formulas; however, there is no evidence to determine its safety and **effectiveness**, and the American Dental Association does not recommend its use. In the United States toothpaste is regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a cosmetic, except for ingredients with a med...
33. ...uced into clinical practice shortly thereafter. Clozapine (Clozaril), an atypical antipsychotic, fell out of favor due to concerns over drug-induced agranulocytosis. Following research indicating its **effectiveness** in treatment-resistant schizophrenia and the development of an adverse event monitoring system, clozapine re-emerged as a viable antipsychotic. According to Barker (2003), the three most-accepted aty...
34. ...that clozapine is usually the last resort when other drugs fail. Clozapine can cause agranulocytosis (a decreased number of white blood cells), requiring blood monitoring for the patient. Despite the **effectiveness** of clozapine for treatment-resistant schizophrenia, agents with a more favorable side-effect profile were sought for widespread use. During the 1990s, olanzapine, risperidone, and quetiapine were int...
35. ...by hand in an Indian village by a missionary general practitioner, and a cruise to Jamaica by a University of the West Indies lecturer in medicine. Drug resistance Drug resistance is the reduction in **effectiveness** of a medication such as an antimicrobial or an antineoplastic in treating a disease or condition. The term is used in the context of resistance that pathogens or cancers have "acquired", that is, res...
36. ...exposure times result in larger pore sizes. The most popular aqueous phase carbons are bituminous based because of their hardness, abrasion resistance, pore size distribution, and low cost, but their **effectiveness** needs to be tested in each application to determine the optimal product. Activated carbon is used for adsorption of organic substances and non-polar adsorbates and it is also usually used for waste g...
37. ...xperiments are conducted to gain insights for design of the clinical trial to follow. There are two goals to testing medical treatments: to learn whether they work well enough, called "efficacy", or "**effectiveness**"; and to learn whether they are safe enough, called "safety". Neither is an absolute criterion; both safety and efficacy are evaluated relative to how the treatment is intended to be used, what other...
38. ...drug occurs. The researchers send the data to the trial sponsor, who then analyzes the pooled data using statistical tests. Examples of clinical trial goals include assessing the safety and relative **effectiveness** of a medication or device: While most clinical trials test one alternative to the novel intervention, some expand to three or four and may include a placebo. Except for small, single-location trials,...
39. ...known as "active control") trials may be conducted instead. In trials with an active control group, subjects are given either the experimental treatment or a previously approved treatment with known **effectiveness**. In other cases, sponsors may conduct an active comparator trial to establish an efficacy claim relative to the active comparator instead of the placebo in labeling. A master protocol includes multip...
40. ...re typically excluded from clinical trials as vulnerable populations, though the data to support excluding them is not robust. By excluding them from clinical trials, information about the safety and **effectiveness** of therapies for these populations is often lacking. During the early history of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, a scientist noted that by excluding these groups from potentially life-saving treatment, they w...
41. ...the consumer and public health, to prevent unnecessary duplication of clinical trials in humans and to minimize the use of animal testing without compromising the regulatory obligations of safety and **effectiveness**." Aggregating safety data across clinical trials during drug development is important because trials are generally designed to focus on determining how well the drug works. The safety data collected...
42. ...e earliest known use of statistical inference, and introduced several new methods of breaking ciphers, notably frequency analysis. He was able to create a scale that would enable doctors to gauge the **effectiveness** of their medication by combining his knowledge of mathematics and medicine. The central theme underpinning al-Kindi's philosophical writings is the compatibility between philosophy and other "orthodo...
43. ...from epinephrine include tremors, anxiety, headaches, and palpitations. The epinephrine in autoinjectors expires after one year. A study in rabbits showed that intramuscular epinephrine has decreased **effectiveness** after it expires; that study also recommended that if the drug in an expired device has not started to precipitate (if the solution is not cloudy and has no particles in it) using the expired device...
44. ...de: Turbidity is commonly treated using a settling or filtration process, or both settling and filtration. Depending on the application, flocculants may be dosed into the water stream to increase the **effectiveness** of the settling or filtration process. Potable water treatment and municipal wastewater plants often remove turbidity with a combination of settling tanks, granular media filtration, and clarifiers....
45. ...ion management issues, and pharmacists in community pharmacies often have more complex business and customer relations issues. Because of the complexity of medications including specific indications, **effectiveness** of treatment regimens, safety of medications (i.e., drug interactions) and patient compliance issues (in the hospital and at home), many pharmacists practicing in hospitals gain more education and tr...
46. ...were: The rad and rem are essentially equivalent for almost all nuclear medicine procedures, and only alpha radiation will produce a higher Rem or Sv value, due to its much higher Relative Biological **Effectiveness** (RBE). Alpha emitters are nowadays rarely used in nuclear medicine, but were used extensively before the advent of nuclear reactor and accelerator produced radionuclides. The concepts involved in rad...
47. ...therapy requirements, in order to manage drug costs, including specialty pharmaceuticals. Chambers et al. may have identified one path to identifying the value of Specialty Pharmaceuticals using cost-**effectiveness** analysis:Conducting cost-effectiveness analyses may be desirable to convey the value of a medication relative to a previous standard of care. Even if a new therapy is expensive, its incremental cost-...
48. ...e drug costs, including specialty pharmaceuticals. Chambers et al. may have identified one path to identifying the value of Specialty Pharmaceuticals using cost-effectiveness analysis:Conducting cost-**effectiveness** analyses may be desirable to convey the value of a medication relative to a previous standard of care. Even if a new therapy is expensive, its incremental cost-effectiveness may be within a willingne...
49. ...analysis:Conducting cost-effectiveness analyses may be desirable to convey the value of a medication relative to a previous standard of care. Even if a new therapy is expensive, its incremental cost-**effectiveness** may be within a willingness-to-pay threshold, as specialty drugs, though more expensive, often are also associated with the greatest gains in QALYs. In 2006, data from the Medical Expenditure Panel S...
50. ...n pharmaceutical companies are potentially as innovative as their U.S. counterparts, despite price controls. In addition, some countries, such as the United Kingdom and Germany, encourage comparative **effectiveness** reviews, whereby cost–benefit analyses of rival drugs determine which perform best. Charles L. Hooper and David R. Henderson wrote in a 2016 publication of the Cato Institute that drug company's pric...
51. ...ng prices, the companies agree to maintain similar prices. An effort is being made to determine if the value of a drug justifies its price. Such measures include cost-minimization, cost-benefit, cost-**effectiveness**, and cost-utility analysis. They take into account the total costs, including hospital stays, repeated dosages, etc. and, comparing it to a similar treatment, determines whether a drug will actually...
52. ...g patients navigate the medication formulary, prescribing drugs covered by formularies, and participating in formulary development through Pharmacy and Therapeutics committees. The formulary system's **effectiveness** is directly correlated to the education of physicians, pharmacists and patients in understanding the justification of formulary compositions. This education includes drug information monographs to pr...
53. ...ion. As an antimicrobial, alcohol also acts as a preservative. A downside of using alcohol as a solvent is that ethanol has a tendency to denature some organic compounds, reducing or destroying their **effectiveness**. This tendency can also have undesirable effects when extracting botanical constituents, such as polysaccharides. Certain other constituents, common among them proteins, can become irreversibly denat...
54. ...each schedule. The schedules are designated schedule I, schedule II, schedule III, schedule IV, and schedule V. Many drugs other than controlled substances require a prescription. The safety and the **effectiveness** of prescription drugs in the US are regulated by the 1987 Prescription Drug Marketing Act (PDMA). The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is charged with implementing the law. As a general rule, "over...
55. ...ive. The American Medical Association issued a report and statement on Pharmaceutical Expiration Dates. The Harvard Medical School Family Health Guide notes that, with rare exceptions, "it's true the **effectiveness** of a drug may decrease over time, but much of the original potency still remains even a decade after the expiration date". The expiration date is the final day that the manufacturer guarantees the fu...
56. ...trary and they have become more profitable than traditional medicines. By 2007 the use of economic evaluation methods regarding public-funding of orphan drugs, using estimates of the incremental cost-**effectiveness**, for example, became more established internationally. The QALY has often been used in cost-utility analysis to calculate the ratio of cost to QALYs saved for a particular health care intervention. B...
57. ...ld range of £20,000–30,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). By 2005 doubts were raised about the use of economic evaluations in orphan drugs. By 2008 most of the orphan drugs appraised had cost-**effectiveness** thresholds "well in excess of the 'accepted' level and would not be reimbursed according to conventional criteria". As early as 2005 McCabe et al. argued that rarity should not have a premium and orp...
58. ...like other pharmaceuticals in general. Drummond et al. argued that the social value of health technologies should also be included in the assessment along with the estimation of the incremental cost-**effectiveness** ratio. The very large incentives given to pharmaceutical companies to produce orphan drugs have led to the impression that the financial support afforded to make these drugs possible is akin to abuse...
59. ...out that this is similar etymology to the Greek and so he uses the term "pharmaceutic". Thus, the term "medicinal" (instead of "herb") is usually preferred as a translation for (). Research into the **effectiveness** of traditional Chinese herbal therapy is of poor quality and often tainted by bias, with little or no rigorous evidence of efficacy. There are concerns over a number of potentially toxic Chinese herb...
60. ...ct with drugs, have side effects, or be dangerous to people with certain medical conditions. Only a few trials exist that are considered to have adequate methodology by scientific standards. Proof of **effectiveness** is poorly documented or absent. A 2016 Cochrane review found "insufficient evidence that Chinese Herbal Medicines were any more or less effective than placebo or hormonal therapy" for the relief of m...
61. ...ortality for SARS patients when Chinese herbs were used alongside Western medicine versus Western medicine exclusively. A 2010 Cochrane review found there is not enough robust evidence to support the **effectiveness** of traditional Chinese medicine herbs to stop the bleeding from haemorrhoids. A 2008 Cochrane review found promising evidence for the use of Chinese herbal medicine in relieving painful menstruation,...
62. ...ucts. However, there have been notable cases of an absence of quality control during herbal product preparation. There is a lack of high-quality scientific research on herbology practices and product **effectiveness** for anti-disease activity. In the herbal sources listed below, there is little or no evidence for efficacy or proof of safety across consumer age groups and disease conditions for which they are inte...
63. ...(NICE) is an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health and Social Care.  As the national health technology assessment body of England, it is responsible for judging the cost-**effectiveness** of medicines and making them available on the NHS through reimbursement, with its judgements informing decisions in Wales and Northern Ireland. It also provides a range of clinical guidance to the NH...
64. ...s with foreign governments. NICE International has received financial support from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Rockefeller Foundation. The notion of an Institute to determine the clinical **effectiveness** of interventions first emerged at the end of John Major's Conservative Government as moves elsewhere were being made to set professionally agreed standards for clinical care. In 1997, the UK National...
65. ...ief executive is Samantha Roberts, who succeeded Gillian Leng. NICE publishes guidelines in four areas: These appraisals are based primarily on evidence-based evaluations of efficacy, safety and cost-**effectiveness** in various circumstances. Since January 2005, the NHS in England has been legally obliged to provide funding for medicines and treatments recommended by NICE's technology appraisal board. This was at...
66. ...led the 'final appraisal determination'. This is submitted to NICE for approval. The process aims to be fully independent of government and lobbying power, basing decisions fully on clinical and cost-**effectiveness**. There have been concerns that lobbying by pharmaceutical companies to mobilise media attention and influence public opinion are attempts to influence the decision-making process. A fast-track assess...
67. ...er of potential spending options. Choices must be made as to how this limited budget is spent. Economic evaluations are carried out within a health technology assessment framework to compare the cost-**effectiveness** of alternative activities and to consider the opportunity cost associated with their decisions. By choosing to spend the finite NHS budget upon those treatment options that provide the most efficient...
68. ...ent results, society can ensure it does not lose out on possible health gains through spending on inefficient treatments and neglecting those that are more efficient. NICE attempts to assess the cost–**effectiveness** of potential expenditures within the NHS to assess whether or not they represent 'better value' for money than treatments that would be neglected if the expenditure took place. It assesses the cost–e...
69. ...s of potential expenditures within the NHS to assess whether or not they represent 'better value' for money than treatments that would be neglected if the expenditure took place. It assesses the cost–**effectiveness** of new treatments by analysing the cost and benefit of the proposed treatment relative to the next best treatment that is currently in use. NICE guidance supports the use of quality-adjusted life yea...
70. ...reatment, the net/relative health benefit derived from such a treatment can be derived. When combined with the relative cost of treatment, this information can be used to estimate an incremental cost-**effectiveness** ratio (ICER), which is considered in relation to NICE's threshold willingness-to-pay value. As a guideline rule, NICE accepts as cost-effective those interventions with an incremental cost-effectiven...
71. ...ectiveness ratio (ICER), which is considered in relation to NICE's threshold willingness-to-pay value. As a guideline rule, NICE accepts as cost-effective those interventions with an incremental cost-**effectiveness** ratio of less than £20,000 per QALY and that there should be increasingly strong reasons for accepting as cost-effective interventions with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of over a threshold...
72. ...with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of less than £20,000 per QALY and that there should be increasingly strong reasons for accepting as cost-effective interventions with an incremental cost-**effectiveness** ratio of over a threshold of £30,000 per QALY. Over the years, there has been great controversy as to what value this threshold should be set at. Initially, there was no fixed number. But the apprais...
73. ...sults of a review of alternative therapies that sought to determine if any were suitable for being covered by health insurance; herbalism was one of 17 topics evaluated for which no clear evidence of **effectiveness** was found. Establishing guidelines to assess the safety and efficacy of herbal products, the European Medicines Agency provided criteria in 2017 for evaluating and grading the quality of clinical res...
74. ...tes, the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health of the National Institutes of Health funds clinical trials on herbal compounds, provides fact sheets evaluating the safety, potential **effectiveness** and side effects of many plant sources, and maintains a registry of clinical research conducted on herbal products. According to Cancer Research UK as of 2015, "there is currently no strong evidence...
75. ...ere are no standards across various herbal products to authenticate their contents, safety or efficacy, and there is generally an absence of high-quality scientific research on product composition or **effectiveness** for anti-disease activity. Presumed claims of therapeutic benefit from herbal products, without rigorous evidence of efficacy and safety, receive skeptical views by scientists. Unethical practices by...
76. ...s." Humco and Paddock Laboratories, the last two companies to continue manufacturing ipecac syrup, both stopped production in 2010. A heavily cited position statement outlines critical details of its **effectiveness**:  In experimental studies the amount of marker removed by ipecac was highly variable and diminished with time. There is no evidence from clinical studies that ipecac improves the outcome of poisoned...
77. ...in the emergency department should be abandoned. There is insufficient data to support or exclude ipecac administration soon after poison ingestion. Ipecac may delay the administration or reduce the **effectiveness** of activated charcoal, oral antidotes, and whole bowel irrigation. Ipecac should not be administered to a patient who has a decreased level or impending loss of consciousness or who has ingested a co...
78. ...ions, and is roughly 500 mg per day for adults. Lecithin is generally recognized as safe (GRAS) by the FDA. There is no robust, scientifically validated clinical research investigating the safety and **effectiveness** of high-dose lecithin supplementation in lactating women and their infants. A meta-analysis found no evidence that high doses of lecithin improved milk flow in breast-feeding mothers or infants, thou...
79. ...re perhaps best known in HIV therapy, after a study showed that stopping medication may stimulate the immune system to attack the virus. Another reason for drug holidays is to permit a drug to regain **effectiveness** after a period of continuous use, and to reduce the tolerance effect that may require increased dosages.  In addition to drug holidays that are intended for therapeutic effect, they are sometimes use...
80. .... This was found to reduce toxic buildup of the drug in some patients. Drug holidays from L-dopa found use in the early 1970s when Sweet et al. reported they were beneficial in terms of restoring the **effectiveness** of the treatment after adaptation by the brain had diminished its effectiveness. However, later studies revealed that such drug holidays conferred only temporary benefits to L-dopa responsiveness. Fu...
81. ...days from L-dopa found use in the early 1970s when Sweet et al. reported they were beneficial in terms of restoring the effectiveness of the treatment after adaptation by the brain had diminished its **effectiveness**. However, later studies revealed that such drug holidays conferred only temporary benefits to L-dopa responsiveness. Furthermore, there was an increased risk of death from associated complications, n...
82. ...zodiazepines have largely replaced the use of barbiturates in medicine, except in certain special cases. When it was later discovered that benzodiazepines, like barbiturates, significantly lose their **effectiveness** and can have serious side effects when taken long-term, Heather Ashton researched benzodiazepine dependence and developed a protocol to discontinue their use. A series of experiments performed from t...
83. ...ey had to be administered by injection. In 1952 researchers at Ciba discovered the first orally available vasodilator, hydralazine. A major shortcoming of hydralazine monotherapy was that it lost its **effectiveness** over time (tachyphylaxis). In the mid-1950s Karl H. Beyer, James M. Sprague, John E. Baer, and Frederick C. Novello of Merck and Co. discovered and developed chlorothiazide, which remains the most wi...
84. ...e (NHS) will allow (in the sense of paying for) their use. The British National Formulary is the core guide for pharmacists and clinicians. In many non-US western countries, a 'fourth hurdle' of cost **effectiveness** analysis has developed before new technologies can be provided. This focuses on the 'efficacy price tag' (in terms of, for example, the cost per QALY) of the technologies in question. In England and...
85. ...NHS, whilst similar arrangements exist with the Scottish Medicines Consortium in Scotland, and the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee in Australia. A product must pass the threshold for cost-**effectiveness** if it is to be approved. Treatments must represent 'value for money' and a net benefit to society. There are special rules for certain rare diseases ("orphan diseases") in several major drug regulato...
86. ...ressant medications — including tryptophan and the herbal medicine "Hypericum perforatum" (St. John's wort) — increasing the potential for serotonin syndrome or other side effects, and may reduce the **effectiveness** of levodopa for Parkinson's disease. SAM can increase the risk of manic episodes in people who have bipolar disorder. A 2022 study concluded that SAMe could be toxic. Jean-Michel Fustin of Manchester...
87. ...may be administered encapsulated in liposomes. Liposomal cisplatin has received orphan drug designation for pancreatic cancer from EMEA. A study provides a promising preclinical demonstration of the **effectiveness** and ease of preparation of Valrubicin-loaded immunoliposomes (Val-ILs) as a novel nanoparticle technology. In the context of hematological cancers, Val-ILs have the potential to be used as a precise...
88. ...hree times a year). In considering a medication for listing on the PBS, the PBAC considers factors including: Decisions on PBS listing are generally made on a health economics perspective, using cost-**effectiveness** analysis. Cost-effectiveness analysis evaluates the cost and health effects of one technology versus the cost and health effects of another technology, which is usually standard of care. A new techno...
89. ...ering a medication for listing on the PBS, the PBAC considers factors including: Decisions on PBS listing are generally made on a health economics perspective, using cost-effectiveness analysis. Cost-**effectiveness** analysis evaluates the cost and health effects of one technology versus the cost and health effects of another technology, which is usually standard of care. A new technology whose incremental health...
90. ...rovide little health benefit at considerable additional expense, such as the PDE5 inhibitors (e.g. sildenafil) and certain expensive cancer chemotherapy drugs are not listed on the basis of poor cost-**effectiveness**. Nonetheless, cost-effectiveness may not be the decisive factor. For example, for a drug that is the only available treatment for a severe illness, listing may be recommended on the basis of the "rul...
91. ...onsiderable additional expense, such as the PDE5 inhibitors (e.g. sildenafil) and certain expensive cancer chemotherapy drugs are not listed on the basis of poor cost-effectiveness. Nonetheless, cost-**effectiveness** may not be the decisive factor. For example, for a drug that is the only available treatment for a severe illness, listing may be recommended on the basis of the "rule of rescue". The principles that...
92. ...2005. Further attempts to restrain the growth in costs of the PBS may be needed, however, attempts to increase consumer prices of drugs have always proved politically unpopular. The comparative cost-**effectiveness** processes of the PBS nonetheless ensure it provides Australian citizens with more equitable access to medicines than in many other developed nations and for many the issue of sustainability of the PB...
93. ...Apart from the place, age also affects the absorption as the skin structure changes with age. The lowered collagen and broadened blood capillary networks happen with ageing. These features alter the **effectiveness** of absorption of both hydrophilic and lipophilic substances into stratum corneum underneath the surface of skin. The skin surface integrity can also affect the permeability of drugs such as the densi...
94. ...d is tested across four- to five-orders of magnitude of concentrations. Efficacy Efficacy is the ability to perform a task to a satisfactory or expected degree. The word comes from the same roots as "**effectiveness**", and it has often been used synonymously, although in pharmacology a distinction is now often made between efficacy and effectiveness. The word "efficacy" is used in pharmacology and medicine to ref...
95. ...ctory or expected degree. The word comes from the same roots as "effectiveness", and it has often been used synonymously, although in pharmacology a distinction is now often made between efficacy and **effectiveness**. The word "efficacy" is used in pharmacology and medicine to refer both to the maximum response achievable from a pharmaceutical drug in research settings, and to the capacity for sufficient therapeu...
96. ...statistically different between placebo and intervention groups. Comparisons of this type are called 'explanatory' randomized controlled trials, whereas 'pragmatic' trials are used to establish the "**effectiveness**" of an intervention regarding also non-specific parameters. Effectiveness refers to "how the drug works in a real-world situation", and is "often lower than efficacy because of interactions with othe...
97. ...ons of this type are called 'explanatory' randomized controlled trials, whereas 'pragmatic' trials are used to establish the "effectiveness" of an intervention regarding also non-specific parameters. **Effectiveness** refers to "how the drug works in a real-world situation", and is "often lower than efficacy because of interactions with other medications or health conditions of the patient, sufficient dose or dura...
98. ...ut 200–300 physicians with 120–180 targets that should be visited in 1–2 or 3 week cycle. Because of the large size of the pharmaceutical sales force, the organization, management, and measurement of **effectiveness** of the sales force are significant business challenges. Management tasks are usually broken down into the areas of physician targeting, sales force size and structure, sales force optimization, call...
99. ...nificant business challenges. Management tasks are usually broken down into the areas of physician targeting, sales force size and structure, sales force optimization, call planning, and sales forces **effectiveness**. A few pharmaceutical companies have realized that training sales representatives on high science alone is not enough, especially when most products are similar in quality. Thus, training sales repre...
100. ...ost products are similar in quality. Thus, training sales representatives on relationship selling techniques in addition to medical science and product knowledge, can make a difference in sales force **effectiveness**. Specialist physicians are relying more and more on specialty sales reps for product information, because they are more knowledgeable than primary care reps. The United States has 81,000 pharmaceutic...
101. ...genomics also attempts to eliminate trial-and-error in prescribing, allowing physicians to take into consideration their patient's genes, the functionality of these genes, and how this may affect the **effectiveness** of the patient's current or future treatments (and where applicable, provide an explanation for the failure of past treatments). Such approaches promise the advent of precision medicine and even pers...
102. ...mes can ultimately alter the amount of medication in the body and at the site of action. This may result in deviation from the medication's therapeutic window and result in either toxicity or loss of **effectiveness**. The majority of clinically actionable pharmacogenetic variation occurs in genes that code for drug-metabolizing enzymes, including those involved in both phase I and phase II metabolism. The cytochr...
103. ...aking 5 plus medication had quadrupled from 12% to nearly 50% between 1994 and 2011. Polypharmacy is not necessarily ill-advised, but in many instances can lead to negative outcomes or poor treatment **effectiveness**, often being more harmful than helpful or presenting too much risk for too little benefit. Therefore, health professionals consider it a situation that requires monitoring and review to validate whet...
104. ...ogress. Furthermore, longer appointments for prescribing and deprescribing would allow time explain the process of deprescribing, explore related concerns, and support making the right decisions. The **effectiveness** of specific interventions to improve the appropriate use of polypharmacy such as pharmaceutical care and computerised decision support is unclear. This is due to low quality of current evidence surro...
105. ...d in popularity in the mid-1970s (see above graph which covers the period 2008). This decline was due to negative publicity centred on side-effects of LSD use, its criminalization, and the increasing **effectiveness** of drug law enforcement efforts, rather than new medical information. The last country to produce LSD legally (until 1975) was Czechoslovakia; during the 1960s, high-quality LSD was imported from the...
106. ...ded preclinical and clinical studies involving LSD and other compounds such as members of the 2C family compounds and psilocybin. In particular, a study released in 2012 highlighted the extraordinary **effectiveness** of LSD in treating alcoholism. In November 2015, "Rolling Stone" magazine reported on an increasing number of young professionals, particularly in the San Francisco area, who were using "microdosing"...
107. ...into: Medicines in Ireland are regulated according to the Misuse of Drugs Regulations 1988. Controlled drugs (CDs) are divided into five categories based on their potential for misuse and therapeutic **effectiveness**. The regulation of drugs in Burma is governed by the Food and Drug Administration (Burma) and Food and Drug Board of Authority. Medicines in Norway are regulated by the Norwegian Medical Products Age...
108. ...et, there are significant product quality issues. Nutraceuticals from the international market may claim to use organic or exotic ingredients, yet the lack of regulation may compromise the safety and **effectiveness** of products. Companies looking to create a wide profit margin may create unregulated products overseas with low-quality or ineffective ingredients. Nutraceuticals are products derived from food sourc...
109. ...mination of cells with low CD20 cell-surface levels. It tends to stick to one side of B cells, where CD20 is, forming a cap and drawing proteins over to that side. The presence of the cap changes the **effectiveness** of natural killer (NK) cells in destroying these B cells. When an NK cell latched onto the cap, it had an 80% success rate at killing the cell. In contrast, when the B cell lacked this asymmetric pro...
110. ...d between amino acids 167 and 183. Rituximab was developed by IDEC Pharmaceuticals under the name IDEC-C2B8. The US patent for the drug was issued in 1998 and expired in 2015. Based on its safety and **effectiveness** in clinical trials, rituximab was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1997 to treat B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas resistant to other chemotherapy regimens. Rituximab, in combinati...
111. ...ovigilance in Azerbaijan was revised and implemented as part of the "Regulation of Pharmacovigilance for Medicinal Products" in 2019. This regulation was developed to establish state control over the **effectiveness** and safety of medicinal products. It outlines measures to detect, evaluate, and prevent adverse reactions and other undesirable effects of medicinal products, applying to marketing authorization hold...
112. ...oversight mechanisms to ensure drug safety. Worldwide company Pharmcontrol (https://www.pharmcontrol.com/en ) offers a full range of pharmacovigilance services in Azerbaijan to ensure the safety and **effectiveness** of medicines on the market. With a team of highly qualified, certified pharmacists, Pharmcontrol ensures the effective monitoring and management of drug safety. The company aligns with international...
113. .... Additionally, it is the most common hormone treatment for male breast cancer. It is also approved by the FDA for the prevention of breast cancer in women at high risk of developing the disease. The **effectiveness** of tamoxifen is primarily influenced by estrogen receptor (ER) status, which was the key predictor of the proportional benefits observed. It has been further approved for the reduction of contralater...
114. ...dy concluded that raloxifene is also effective in reducing the incidence of breast cancer. Updated results after an average of 6.75 years of follow up found that raloxifene retains 76% of tamoxifen's **effectiveness** in preventing invasive breast cancer, with 45% fewer uterine cancers and 25% fewer blood clots in women taking raloxifene than in women taking tamoxifen. Tamoxifen is used for ovulation induction to...
115. ...rom tamoxifen. Recent studies suggest that taking the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) antidepressants paroxetine (Paxil), fluoxetine (Prozac), and sertraline (Zoloft) can decrease the **effectiveness** of tamoxifen, as these drugs compete for the CYP2D6 enzyme which is needed to metabolize tamoxifen into its active forms. A U.S. study presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology's annual...
116. ...the FD&C. Also in that year the FDA formed the Drug Efficacy Study Implementation (DESI) to incorporate into FD&C regulations the recommendations from a National Academy of Sciences investigation of **effectiveness** of previously marketed drugs. The act has been amended many times, most recently to add requirements about bioterrorism preparations. The introduction of this act was influenced by the death of more...
117. ...Act recognizes as an official drug compendium. However, under separate authority of FTC Act, the Federal Trade Commission declared in November 2016 that homeopathic products cannot include claims of **effectiveness** without "competent and reliable scientific evidence". If no such evidence exists, they must state this fact clearly on their labeling. Bottled water is regulated by the FDA as a food. The Agency has...
118. ...was no already-existing device that could be used a predicate for a 510k submission, but for which general controls or general and special controls could provide a reasonable assurance of safety and **effectiveness**. The Wheeler-Lea Act, passed in 1938, granted the Federal Trade Commission the authority to oversee advertising of all products regulated by FDA, other than prescription drugs. Descriptions of these...
119. ...sensor technology on the device. The first smart-inhaler was approved in 2019 by the FDA, its purpose is to track patient use of the device and some other circumstantial factors that could affect the **effectiveness** of the dosage. This information is sent via Bluetooth to a mobile device app, and is later shared with their physician to determine what kind of things can trigger issues with asthma and other proble...
120. ...chemically modified to elicit differential pharmacological effects or reduced side effects. Since the 1962 Kefauver–Harris Amendment, new drugs are statutorily required to demonstrate both safety and **effectiveness** through "substantial evidence" for approval. The amendment defines "substantial evidence" as "evidence consisting of adequate and well-controlled investigations, including clinical investigations, by...
121. ...tantial evidence" as "evidence consisting of adequate and well-controlled investigations, including clinical investigations, by experts qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate the **effectiveness** of the drug involved, on the basis of which it could fairly and responsibly be concluded by such experts that the drug will have the effect it purports or is represented to have under the conditions...
122. ...pes of confirmatory evidence along with one adequate and well-controlled clinical investigation for approval. The trials are typically conducted in three phases: The legal requirements for safety and **effectiveness** have been interpreted as requiring scientific evidence that the benefits of a drug outweigh the risks and that adequate instructions exist for use, since many drugs have adverse side effects. The res...
123. ...tigmine, have been developed and approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment in the U.S.A. However, these are not ideal drugs, considering their side-effects and limited **effectiveness**. The excessive stimulation of muscarinic and nicotinic receptors by acetylcholine may contribute to the side effects that anticholinesterases have.  One promising drug, nefiracetam, is being develope...
124. ...national anthem. Number needed to treat The number needed to treat (NNT) or number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome (NNTB) is an epidemiological measure used in communicating the **effectiveness** of a health-care intervention, typically a treatment with medication. The NNT is the average number of patients who need to be treated to prevent one additional bad outcome. It is defined as the inve...
125. ...drug was determined. The responders (42% of subjects) showed a significant effect in the second, placebo controlled, phase of the trial. A 2009 meta-analysis of six studies found large variations of **effectiveness**, with a – statistically non-significant – trend towards a reduction of spasticity. A systematic review in 2014 by the American Academy of Neurology found that nabiximols was 'probably effective' for...
126. ...dition to choosing a margin based upon credible past evidence, to have assay sensitivity, the planned non-inferiority trial must be designed in a way similar to the past trials which demonstrated the **effectiveness** of the control compared to placebo, the so-called "constancy assumption". In this way, non-inferiority trials have a feature in common with external (historically) controlled trials. This also means...
127. ...th benefits outweigh its known risks, the drug is approved for sale. The center doesn't actually test drugs itself, although it does conduct limited research in the areas of drug quality, safety, and **effectiveness** standards. As of the end of 2013, the FDA and its predecessors had approved 1,452 drugs, though not all are still available, and some have been withdrawn for safety reasons. Accounting for subsequent...
128. ...ential to produce AEs. AEs are classified as serious or non-serious; expected or unexpected; and study-related, possibly study-related, or not study-related. For example, while a study that tests the **effectiveness** of a new blood pressure cuff for a period of 10 minutes might seem innocuous, the potential exists for the patient's skin to be irritated by the device. Patients in that study might also die during t...
129. ...igational device exemption An investigational device exemption (IDE) allows an investigational device (i.e. a device that is the subject of a clinical study) to be used in order to collect safety and **effectiveness** data required to support a premarket approval (PMA) application or a premarket notification [510(k)] submission to Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Clinical studies are most often conducted to sup...
130. ...he energy absorption capacity of the S-S CMF core in compression, whereas the face sheets strengthen the CMF core to better handle tensile stresses. Sandwich panels with thicker face sheets show less **effectiveness**, and a thin face sheet seemed to be sufficient to support the S-S CMF core for absorbing such puncture energies. Panels assembled using adhesive bonding showed debonding of the face sheets from the C...
131. ...which is the highest level of the medicine in the body, and the "average level", which is the mean level over time. It is widely used in clinical trials for newer medicines to investigate therapeutic **effectiveness** and safety. Apomorphine Apomorphine, sold under the brand name Apokyn among others, is a type of aporphine having activity as a non-selective dopamine agonist which activates both D-like and, to a mu...
132. ...op in blood pressure when getting up), and can also increase the chances of pneumonia and heart attacks. Dopamine antagonists, by their nature of competing for sites at dopamine receptors, reduce the **effectiveness** of the agonistic apomorphine. IV administration of apomorphine is highly discouraged, as it can crystallize in the veins and create a blood clot (thrombus) and block a pulmonary artery (pulmonary emb...
133. ...omiting. Despite his claims throughout his life, Burroughs never really cured his addiction and was back to using opiates within years of his apomorphine "cure". However, he insisted on apomorphine's **effectiveness** in several works and interviews. There is renewed interest in the use of apomorphine to treat addiction, in both smoking cessation and alcoholism. As the drug is known to be reasonably safe for use i...
134. ...teps to achieve the application of these devices. Incorrect completion of one or more steps in using an MDI can substantially reduce the delivery of the administered medication and, consequently, its **effectiveness** and safety. Numerous studies have demonstrated that between 50-100% of patients do not use their inhaler devices correctly, with patients often unaware that they are using their inhaled medication in...
135. ...ine: Adjuvant therapy Adjuvant therapy, also known as adjunct therapy, adjuvant care, or augmentation therapy, is a therapy that is given in addition to the primary or initial therapy to maximize its **effectiveness**. The surgeries and complex treatment regimens used in cancer therapy have led the term to be used mainly to describe adjuvant cancer treatments. An example of such adjuvant therapy is the additional...
136. ...effects. Additionally, certain medicines and supplements, such as the antibiotic rifampin, the anti-fungal griseofulvin, anti-seizure medicines, St. John's wort, and HIV medicines, may compromise the **effectiveness** of vaginal rings. Vaginal rings do not protect users from sexually transmitted diseases. The only contraceptive measures that does so are latex or polyurethane condoms. The contraceptive vaginal ring...
137. ...mmunity Grid was launched. The partnership is a distributed computing project that "will automatically run a simulated experiment in the background [of connected home PCs] which will help predict the **effectiveness** of a particular chemical compound as a possible treatment for COVID-19". Third phase Third phase is the term for a stable emulsion which forms in a liquid–liquid extraction when the original two phas...
138. ...ting to depression. Others include diabetes, coronary artery disease, cancer, HIV, and Parkinson's disease.  Another factor is that medications used to treat comorbid medical disorders may lessen the **effectiveness** of antidepressants or cause depression symptoms. People with depression who also display psychotic symptoms such as delusions or hallucinations are more likely to be treatment resistant. Another depr...
139. ...atment. This can include combination therapy: the combination of two different types of antidepressants, or augmentation therapy: the addition of a non-antidepressant medication that may increase the **effectiveness** of the antidepressant. Increasing the dosage of an antidepressant is a common strategy to treat depression that does not respond after adequate treatment duration. Practitioners who use this strategy...
140. ...ase the dose until the person reports intolerable side effects, symptoms are eliminated, or the dose is increased to the limit of what is considered safe. Studies have shown a wide variability in the **effectiveness** of switching antidepressants, with anywhere from 25 to 70% of people responding to a different antidepressant. There is support for the effectiveness of switching people to a different SSRI; 50% of p...
141. ...afe. Studies have shown a wide variability in the effectiveness of switching antidepressants, with anywhere from 25 to 70% of people responding to a different antidepressant. There is support for the **effectiveness** of switching people to a different SSRI; 50% of people that were non-responsive after taking one SSRI were responsive after taking a second type. Switching people with treatment-resistant depression...
142. ...t against major depression. There have also been a number of meta-analyses of RCTs confirming the efficacy of rTMS in treatment-resistant major depression, as well as naturalistic studies showing its **effectiveness** in "real world" clinical settings. dTMS (deep transcranial magnetic stimulation) is a continuation of the same idea as rTMS, but with the hope that deeper stimulation of subcortical areas of the brai...
143. ...efractory depression. Transcranial direct-current stimulation is a form of neuromodulation that uses constant, low direct current delivered via electrodes on the head. There is sparse evidence on the **effectiveness** of psychotherapy in cases of treatment-resistant depression. However, a review of the literature suggests that it may be an effective treatment option. Psychotherapy may be effective in people with t...
144. ...and children.  Several changes have been implemented since the 2021 edition, including that medication cost should not be grounds for exclusion criteria if it meets other selection criteria, and cost-**effectiveness** differences should be evaluated within therapeutic areas. The following year, antiretroviral agents, usually used in the treatment of HIV/AIDS, were included on the list of essential medicines.  The...
145. ...erently, due to the fact that each medication can have many qualities and uses. Because various medicines have different costs, individual uses, and distinct advantages, it prompts the theory of cost **effectiveness**. Cost effectiveness is the subject of debate between producers (pharmaceutical companies) and purchasers of drugs (national health services). It is estimated that access to essential medicines could...
146. ...fact that each medication can have many qualities and uses. Because various medicines have different costs, individual uses, and distinct advantages, it prompts the theory of cost effectiveness. Cost **effectiveness** is the subject of debate between producers (pharmaceutical companies) and purchasers of drugs (national health services). It is estimated that access to essential medicines could save 10 million peop...
147. ...on to MEMS, median mediction adherence was grossly overestimated by 17% using self-report, by 8% using pill count and by 6% using rating as alternative methods for measuring medication adherence. The **effectiveness** of two-way email communication between health care professionals and their patients has not been adequately assessed. , 5.15 billion people, which equates to 67% of the global population, have a mobi...
148. ...arly, it's for political reasons," said Greenberg, citing political opposition to abortion and his impression that morality has guided the policy development more than medical science and evidence of **effectiveness**. Some patients feel that the requirements to take monthly pregnancy tests and enter information about contraceptive choices constitute an unreasonable intrusion, and feel that's too high a price to p...
149. ...n (such as the patch) will result in higher user compliance and therefore lower typical failure rates. Currently there is little evidence that there is an association between being overweight and the **effectiveness** of hormonal contraceptives. While unpredictable breakthrough bleeding is a possible side effect for all hormonal contraceptives, it is more common with progestogen-only formulations. Most regimens of...
150. ...use is very small. Since pregnancy occurs despite endometrial changes when the primary mechanisms of action fail, endometrial changes are unlikely to play a significant role, if any, in the observed **effectiveness** of combined hormonal contraceptives. The mechanism of action of progestogen-only contraceptives depends on the progestogen activity and dose. Low dose progestogen-only contraceptives include traditio...
151. ...ating the mould and extracting, purifying and storing penicillin from it, together with an assay for measuring its purity. They carried out experiments on animals to determine penicillin's safety and **effectiveness** before conducting clinical trials and field tests. They derived penicillin's chemical structure and determined how it works. The private sector and the United States Department of Agriculture located...
152. ...The chairman of the NRC committee on chemotherapy, Chester Keefer was responsible for administering the equitable distribution of penicillin for civilian use on behalf of the CMR. As the news of the **effectiveness** of penicillin spread, he had to deal with a large volume of requests for the drug. Supplies for civilian use were initially small, and penicillin was initially provided only for cases with a high mor...
153. ...viruses and bacteria. Materials in certain cosmetics such as sun cream, moisturizer, and deodorant may have potential benefits from the use of nanochemistry. Manufacturers are working to increase the **effectiveness** of various cosmetics by facilitating oil nanoemulsion. These particles have extended the boundaries in managing wrinkling, dehydrated, and inelastic skin associated with aging. In sunscreen, titanium...
154. ...icare was set to acquire JobMinglr.com for an undisclosed sum. Drug carrier A drug carrier or drug vehicle is a substrate used in the process of drug delivery which serves to improve the selectivity, **effectiveness**, and/or safety of drug administration. Drug carriers are primarily used to control the release of drugs into systemic circulation. This can be accomplished either by slow release of a particular drug...
155. ...key properties: it functions as a structural scaffold, physically keeping an artery open to ensure blood flow; the device has specific drug delivery features, and the chosen drug is critical for its **effectiveness**—this drug, selected for its suitability in inhibiting restenosis and its pharmacokinetics, is a crucial component of the device. Apart from the drug, the materials used in the fabrication of the devi...
156. ...evices and are part of a percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) delivery system; other components, such as the catheter design, also play significant roles in the device’s overall functionality and **effectiveness**. DES are typically composed of metal alloys, most commonly stainless steel or cobalt-chromium, but can also be made of other materials such as platinum-chromium or nickel-titanium. The stent is often...
157. ...ons for DES products, these considerations are included in submissions for approval to regulatory authorities such as the US FDA: The drug choice is a critical design element and determining its true **effectiveness** in inhibiting neointimal growth due to the proliferation of smooth muscle cells that would cause restenosis can be a design challenge. Much of the neointimal hyperplasia seems to be caused by inflamm...
158. ...s III medical devices, meaning that they pose the highest risk to patients and are subject to both general and premarket approval, which requires clinical trials and scientific evidence of safety and **effectiveness**, as well as rigorous mechanical testing. During the mechanical testing process, universal testing machines induce bending, stretching, twisting, and putting pressure on vascular stents from various a...
159. ...the outcomes of patients with coronary artery disease. The sirolimus-eluting Cypher stent received CE mark approval in Europe in 2002, and then underwent a larger trial to demonstrate its safety and **effectiveness** for the US market. The trial, published in 2003, enrolled 1058 patients with more complex lesions and confirmed the superiority of SES over bare metal stents in terms of angiographic and clinical out...
160. ...types of drug-eluting stents available, with differences in features and characteristics. The economic evaluation of DES has been a topic of extensive research. In 2007, the overall incremental cost-**effectiveness** ratio in Europe was €98,827 per quality-adjusted life-years gained. Avoiding one revascularization with DES would cost €4,794, when revascularization with BMS costs €3,2606. There were controversies...
161. ...and that he believed this happened because hospitals and doctors wanted to make more money. The interview sparked a debate among cardiologists, researchers, and patients about the appropriateness and **effectiveness** of DES for stable coronary artery disease: some agreed with the study's findings and questioned the overuse of stents, while others criticized the study's methods and limitations and defended the ben...
162. ...ntadine, a Parkinson's medication, is known to enhance dopamine agonist release and activate dopamine receptors, which helps with ejaculation. However, there is not sufficient evidence to support the **effectiveness** of these medications on delayed ejaculation. Several common medications can contribute to low libido. Antidepressants, especially selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) antidepressants, incr...
163. ...led and released the Research in Humans Compendium, a free resource to provide the scientific community interested in human research with information on the design of research protocols to assess the **effectiveness** of a drug in a series of pathological conditions. IUPHAR is involved in the development of pharmacology in developing countries. In conjunction with ICSU the Pharmacology for Africa (Phar"f"A) initia...
164. ...g Centre for International Drug Monitoring. UMC works by collecting, assessing and communicating information from member countries' national pharmacovigilance centres in regard to the benefits, harm, **effectiveness** and risks of drugs. Since 1978, responsibility for managing the WHO Programme for International Drug Monitoring has been carried by UMC. In the early years the staff consisted of just three pharmacis...
165. ...will not be funded by public money except in exceptional cases. These include but are not limited to procedures which the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has ruled of limited **effectiveness** and particular brand name medicines. In 2017 there was a proposal for 3,200 over-the-counter (OTC) drugs to be restricted and 18 procedures to be added to the list. This generated some controversy am...
166. ...ith some arguing that OTC should be blacklisted instead, and others believing the move did not take into account individual patient needs. The NHS has produced lists of procedures of limited clinical **effectiveness** for many years, advising that they should not be carried out except in exceptional cases. Since the establishment of NICE in 1999 there has been a move to more robust processes, but such decisions al...
167. ...fficial guidance from NHS England, and to add 18 treatments considered to have 'limited clinical value' – including homeopathy and herbal treatments – to the banned list. The 10 items of low clinical **effectiveness**: 7 items which are clinically effective but not cost-effective: Dr Andrew Green, clinical policy lead on the British Medical Association general practitioners' committee objected and demanded that an...
168. ...ion, in a standardized and scientifically grounded manner. Pharmacoeconomics centers on the economic evaluation of pharmaceuticals, and can use cost-minimization analysis, cost-benefit analysis, cost-**effectiveness** analysis or cost-utility analysis. Quality-adjusted life years have become the dominant outcome of interest in pharmacoeconomic evaluations, and many studies employ a cost-per-QALY analysis. Economic...
169. ...labels are used as a reminder to the patient of important information, failure to understand and follow the instructions from auxiliary labels can result in treatment failure or adverse effects. The **effectiveness** of auxiliary labels can vary greatly between different label formats and specific text, with a 2006 survey finding that one common multi-step, complex label ("Do not take dairy products, antacids, or...
170. ...that one common multi-step, complex label ("Do not take dairy products, antacids, or iron preparations within 1 hour of this medication") was interpreted correctly only 7.6% of the time. The overall **effectiveness** of auxiliary labels depends on the number of labels affixed, the design of the label, and their positioning on the medication package or vial. Simplifying the content and number of auxiliary labels c...
171. ...gnificant non-English speaking populations. Only one third of auxiliary labels in the United States are available in languages other than English. Common elements considered to increase the chance of **effectiveness** of an auxiliary label include a single-step instruction, using easy-to-read text (for example, low Lexile score), use of clear, simple icons (if present), use of color to represent severity, and clar...
172. ...imple icons (if present), use of color to represent severity, and clarity of the instruction being represented. Font size and style, including boldface or capitalization patterns, can also impact the **effectiveness** of an auxiliary label. The effectiveness of auxiliary labels is also increased when pharmacists explicitly instruct patients on their presence on the package, and explain the importance of each of th...
173. ...represent severity, and clarity of the instruction being represented. Font size and style, including boldface or capitalization patterns, can also impact the effectiveness of an auxiliary label. The **effectiveness** of auxiliary labels is also increased when pharmacists explicitly instruct patients on their presence on the package, and explain the importance of each of the warnings being presented using the auxi...
174. .... It has also been recommended that people with low health literacy and low literacy in general be consulted during the design process for auxiliary labels to improve the chance for comprehension and **effectiveness**. Biotechnology in pharmaceutical manufacturing Biotechnology is the use of living organisms to develop useful products. Biotechnology is often used in pharmaceutical manufacturing. Notable examples i...
175. ...eral public can voluntarily report adverse reactions to drugs and medical devices. The FDA also conducts active surveillance of certain regulated products. For example, the FDA may monitor safety and **effectiveness** of medical devices through either a Post-Approval Study or through a 522 Postmarket Surveillance Study. With respect to regulation, two terms are defined: Postmarketing requirements are studies and c...
176. ...resolved before the CRF data is included by the sponsor in the final clinical study report. Depending on variables relating to the nature of the study, (e.g., the health of the study population), the **effectiveness** of the study administrators in resolving these queries can significantly impact the cost of studies. Originally all case report forms were made on paper. But recently there is a changing trend to per...
177. ...reported outcome, a nurse-reported outcome, and so on. PRO methods, such as questionnaires, are used in clinical trials or other clinical settings, to help better understand a treatment's efficacy or **effectiveness**. The use of digitized PROs, or electronic patient-reported outcomes (ePROs), is on the rise in today's health research setting. PROs should not be confused with PCOs, or "patient-centered outcomes"....
178. ...ces about drug, health technology, and health system policies, in collaboration with international partners. Its role differs from that of Health Canada in that it can provide data on the comparative **effectiveness** of drugs and make recommendations that factor in metrics beyond safety and quality, including cost effectiveness. In Canada, healthcare falls under the jurisdiction of provinces and territories. As s...
179. ...role differs from that of Health Canada in that it can provide data on the comparative effectiveness of drugs and make recommendations that factor in metrics beyond safety and quality, including cost **effectiveness**. In Canada, healthcare falls under the jurisdiction of provinces and territories. As such, historically each province has managed their own pharmaceutical system, from formularies to public prescript...
180. ...U.S. Kefauver–Harris Amendment or "Drug Efficacy Amendment" is a 1962 amendment to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. It introduced a requirement for drug manufacturers to provide proof of the **effectiveness** and safety of their drugs before approval, required drug advertising to disclose accurate information about side effects, and stopped cheap generic drugs being marketed as expensive drugs under new t...
181. ...ide for morning sickness during pregnancy. The bill by U.S. Senator Estes Kefauver, of Tennessee, and U.S. Representative Oren Harris, of Arkansas, required drug manufacturers to provide proof of the **effectiveness** and safety of their drugs before approval. The majority of the tragic birth defects that occurred were in other countries because Thalidomide had not been approved for use in the United States. Howev...
182. ...he captured particulates. Due to the easy means of deposition of other materials within ceramic foams, these oxidation-inducing catalysts can easily be distributed through the entire foam, increasing **effectiveness**. Ceramic foam filters (CFF) are used for the filtration of liquid metal. Passing liquid metal through the ceramic foam filter reduces impurities, including nonmetallic inclusions, in the liquid metal...
183. ...blem statement with expanded scope may be generated, and a more thorough investigation to root cause performed. Implementation of corrective and preventive actions is the path towards improvement and **effectiveness** of Quality Management Systems. Corrective actions are nothing but actions based on problem identification. The problem or a non-conformance can be identified internally through staff suggestions, man...
184. ...purpose and provided that they do not mislead the customer"". The words "quantum satis" are used with reference to a number of substances in the Annexes III and IV to the EU directive 94/36/EC. Drug **Effectiveness** Review Project The Drug Effectiveness Review Project (DERP) is a self-governed collaboration of state Medicaid and public pharmacy programs that commission high-quality evidence-based research produc...
185. ...mislead the customer"". The words "quantum satis" are used with reference to a number of substances in the Annexes III and IV to the EU directive 94/36/EC. Drug Effectiveness Review Project The Drug **Effectiveness** Review Project (DERP) is a self-governed collaboration of state Medicaid and public pharmacy programs that commission high-quality evidence-based research products to assist policymakers and other de...
186. ...sed at the Center for Evidence-based Policy at Oregon Health & Science University in Portland, Oregon, DERP produces concise, comparative, evidence-based research products that evaluate the efficacy, **effectiveness**, and safety of drugs in many widely used drug classes. Nationally recognized for its clinical objectivity and high-quality research, DERP focuses on specialty and other high-impact drugs – particular...
187. ...g government programs contain exploding costs for new pharmaceutical therapies. DERP uses a collaborative governing model to develop work plans that provide independent and objective research on drug **effectiveness** and safety to bring evidence to health policy decisions. DERP reports include up-to-date clinical evidence on efficacy, adverse events, and safety information for the drugs reviewed. These reports an...
188. ...From these experiments Emmerich and Löw created a medication based on extracts of "B. pyocyaneus" that they called pyocyanase. It was the first antibiotic to be used in hospitals. Unfortunately, its **effectiveness** was sporadic, did not work equally on all patients, and the presence of large amounts of phenazines such as pyocyanin made it quite toxic to humans. As a result, the drug was eventually abandoned. Pr...
189. ...rent batches of the same vaccine were correctly assumed to be caused by contamination of the reaction vessels. However, it was soon found that more scrupulous cleaning actually seemed to "reduce" the **effectiveness** of the vaccines, and some contaminants actually enhanced the immune response. There are many known adjuvants in widespread use, including aluminium salts, oils and virosomes. Adjuvants in immunology...
190. ...steps to achieve application of these devices. Incorrect completion of one or more steps in the use of a DPI can substantially reduce the delivery of the administrated medication and consequently its **effectiveness** and safety. Numerous studies have demonstrated that between 50 and 100% of patients do not use their inhaler devices correctly, with patients often unaware that they are using their inhaled medicatio...
191. ...of even modest-sized chemical libraries can be a full-time endeavor. Compound management is one such field that attempts to manage and upkeep these chemical libraries as well as maximizing safety and **effectiveness** in their management. Combined drug intoxication Accidental (CDI), or multiple drug intake (MDI), is a cause of death by drug overdose from poly drug use, often implicated in polysubstance dependence....
192. ...insured populations or specialized entities like Cancer Care Ontario, which funds in-hospital oncology drugs) or health care organizations such as hospitals. At this point the critical issue is cost-**effectiveness**. This is where the discipline of pharmaco-economics is often applied. This is a specialized field of health economics that looks at the cost/benefit of a product in terms of quality of life, alternat...
193. ...tures like the UK's National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence and Canada's Common Drug Review evaluate products in this way. Some jurisdictions do not, however, evaluate products for cost-**effectiveness**. In some instances, individual drug benefit plans (or their administrators) may also evaluate products. Additionally, hospitals may have their own review committees (often called a Pharmacy and Thera...
194. ...g licensing are limited in scope and duration, drug plans may request ongoing post-market trials (often called Phase IV or pragmatic clinical trials) to demonstrate a product's 'real world safety and **effectiveness**.' These may take the form of a patient registry or other means of data collection and analysis. Once a product is deemed cost-effective, a price negotiated (or applied in the case of a pricing model)...
195. ...done by pharmaceutical companies. Organizations such as Australia's National Prescribing Service typify this technique, providing independent information, including head-to-head comparisons and cost-**effectiveness** information to prescribers to influence their choices. Additionally, efforts to promote the 'appropriate use' of medications may also involve other providers like pharmacists providing clinical consu...
196. ...therapeutic areas. Clinical pharmacists interact directly with patients in several different ways. They use their knowledge of medication (including dosage, drug interactions, side effects, expense, **effectiveness**, etc.) to determine if a medication plan is appropriate for their patient. If it is not, the pharmacist will consult the primary physician to ensure that the patient is on the proper medication plan....
197. ...er its administration. This is in contrast to their interchangeable use in other fields. A 'dose' of any chemical or biological agent (active ingredient) has several factors which are critical to its **effectiveness**. The first is concentration, that is, how much of the agent is being administered to the body at once. Under-dosing is a common problem in pharmacy, as predicting an average dose that is effective fo...
198. ...th chemicals, and therefore the dosing must be continually adjusted once treatment is initiated to find the right balance. There is limited consensus throughout the scientific community regarding the **effectiveness** of medicinal cannabis. Calculating drug doses for treatment for more serious diseases like cancer is commonly done through measuring the patient's body surface area. There are approximately 25 differ...
199. ...he WHO. There are several ways that drug resistance to TB, and drug resistance in general, can be prevented: "Opponents of a universal tuberculosis treatment, reasoning from misguided notions of cost-**effectiveness**, fail to acknowledge that MDRTB is not a disease of poor people in distant places. The disease is infectious and airborne. Treating only one group of patients looks inexpensive in the short run, but...
200. ...ires prior approval, as any drug "the composition of which is such that such drug is not generally recognized, among experts qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate the safety and **effectiveness** of drugs, as safe and effective for use under the conditions prescribed, recommended, or suggested in the labeling." "Safe and effective" is always conditional on following the directions. For exampl...
201. ...er capita yearly cigarette consumption in post-war Germany steadily rose from 460 in 1950 to 1,523 in 1963. By the end of the 20th century, anti-smoking campaigns in Germany were unable to exceed the **effectiveness** of the Nazi-era climax in the years 1939–41 and German tobacco health research was described by Robert N. Proctor as "muted". In the UK and the US, an increase in lung cancer rates, formerly "among t...
202. ...r guidelines outline that "As other products become available, they should meet the definition of a closed system drug transfer device established by NIOSH and should be required to demonstrate their **effectiveness** in independent studies". Thomsonianism Thomsonianism was an early 19th century American-based system of alternative medicine, developed and promoted by Samuel Thomson. It grew rapidly during the Popu...
203. ...hile a drug of lower potency (e.g. morphine, alprazolam, ziprasidone, haloperidol, furosemide) evokes the same response only at higher concentrations. Higher potency does not necessarily mean greater **effectiveness** nor more side effects nor less side effects. The International Union of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology (IUPHAR) has stated that "potency is an imprecise term that should always be further defined",...
204. ...herbal product advertised as treating erectile dysfunction. Many different products are advertised as herbal viagra, but with varying ingredients. No clinical trials or scientific studies support the **effectiveness** of any of these ingredients for the treatment of erectile dysfunction and some products have been found to contain drugs and other adulterants, and have been the subject of FDA and FTC warnings and a...
205. ...ew of evidence that included structural and functional characterization, animal study data, human pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics data, clinical immunogenicity data and other clinical safety and **effectiveness** data that demonstrates Zarxio is biosimilar to Neupogen. In March 2020, most protein products that were approved as drug products (including every insulin currently on the market ) are scheduled to o...
206. ...oposed by national or supranational advisory committees on immunization, and in many cases, is regulated by the government. Predictive vaccination strategy models play an important role in predicting **effectiveness** of vaccination strategies at population level. The may, e.g., compare the sequence of age groups to be vaccinated and study the outcome in terms of caseload, deaths, length of a pandemic, healthcare...
207. ...the health system is an important element of public health programs that aim to deliver life-saving vaccines. Trust in vaccination and health care is an important indicator of government work and the **effectiveness** of the social policy. The success in overcoming diseases and in vaccination depends on the level of trust in vaccines and health care. The lack of trust in vaccines and immunization programs can lead...
208. ...s recommended because of occupational risks, it must adhere to the Occupational Safety and Health Act involving Biological Agents. Criteria for the recommendation include disease burden, efficacy and **effectiveness**, safety, feasibility of program implementation, cost-effectiveness evaluation, clinical trial results, and equity in access to the vaccine. In the event of vaccination-related injuries, federal state...
209. ...Occupational Safety and Health Act involving Biological Agents. Criteria for the recommendation include disease burden, efficacy and effectiveness, safety, feasibility of program implementation, cost-**effectiveness** evaluation, clinical trial results, and equity in access to the vaccine. In the event of vaccination-related injuries, federal states are responsible for monetary compensation. Germany's central gove...
210. ...susceptible bacteria. Theoretically, the ability of an antibiotic to induce a PAE is an attractive property since antibiotic concentrations could fall below the MIC for the bacterium yet retain their **effectiveness** in their ability to suppress the growth. Therefore, an antibiotic with PAE would require less frequent administration and it could improve patient adherence with regard to pharmacotherapy. Proposed m...
211. ...s intraperitoneally is the ability for the peritoneal cavity to absorb large amounts of a drug quickly. A disadvantage of using intraperitoneal injections is that they can have a large variability in **effectiveness** and misinjection. Intraperitoneal injections can be similar to oral administration in that hepatic metabolism could occur in both. There are few accounts of the use of intraperitoneal injections prio...
212. ...of Aspirin began in 1899, Bayer sent out small packets of the drug to doctors, pharmacists and hospitals, advising them of Aspirin's uses and encouraging them to publish about the drug's effects and **effectiveness**. As positive results came in and enthusiasm grew, Bayer sought to secure patent and trademark wherever possible. It was ineligible for patent in Germany (despite being accepted briefly before the dec...
213. ...lanation. When the Elwood trial ended in 1973, it showed a modest but not statistically significant reduction in heart attacks among the group taking aspirin. Several subsequent studies put aspirin's **effectiveness** as a heart drug on firmer ground, but the evidence was not incontrovertible. However, in the mid-1980s, with the relatively new technique of meta-analysis, statistician Richard Peto convinced the U.S...
214. ...-1980s, with the relatively new technique of meta-analysis, statistician Richard Peto convinced the U.S. FDA and much of the medical community that the aspirin studies, in aggregate, showed aspirin's **effectiveness** with relative certainty. By the end of the 1980s, aspirin was widely used as a preventive drug for heart attacks and had regained its former position as the top-selling analgesic in the U.S. In 2018,...
215. ...res involve the administration of anesthesia and other medications to facilitate rapid detoxification of the body, effectively reducing the painful and uncomfortable symptoms of withdrawal. While the **effectiveness** of rapid detox has been a subject of debate, it remains a popular treatment option for certain individuals grappling with opioid addiction. The pioneering efforts of Resnick and Loimer have paved the...
216. ...itzerland. When authorising new medicinal products, Swissmedic bases its decisions on internationally acknowledged criteria. The products may only be placed on the market if their quality, safety and **effectiveness** are sufficiently evaluated and proved. If the criteria for authorisation are fulfilled, Swissmedic grants the marketing authorisation, specifies the method of sale (on prescription only/dispensing po...
217. ...the American Cancer Society and the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, there is no evidence that Ukrain is an effective cancer treatment. In 2005, Edzard Ernst led a review into evidence of the **effectiveness** of Ukrain. Although the review found evidence suggesting the drug was effective, it also concluded that "numerous caveats prevent a positive conclusion". Commenting on the review some years later, Er...
218. ...autious conclusion given, "this article became much cited. ... [Novytskyi] must have been delighted". The Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center says that clinical trials have yet to prove safety and **effectiveness** of Ukrain. The American Cancer Society stated that, as of 2013, "available scientific evidence does not support claims that celandine is effective in treating cancer in humans". It may however be res...
219. ...government negotiates an overall cap on drugs bill growth with the pharmaceutical industry. In addition a government agency, the National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE) assesses cost **effectiveness** of individual prescription drugs pricing. The National Health Service also may negotiate direct with individual pharmaceutical companies for certain specialised medicines, as well as running competit...
220. ...d pre-clinical trials focus on non-human subjects and work on animals such as rats. The Food and Drug Administration requires at least 3 phases of clinical trials that assess the side effects and the **effectiveness** of the drug. An analysis of trial costs of approved drugs by the FDA from 2015 to 2016 found that out of 138 clinical trials, 59 new therapeutic agents were approved by the FDA. These trials have a m...
221. ...a particular hospital, in a particular health system, or under a particular health insurance policy. The development of prescription formularies is based on evaluations of efficacy, safety, and cost-**effectiveness** of drugs. Depending on the individual formulary, it may also contain additional clinical information, such as side effects, contraindications, and doses. By the turn of the millennium, 156 countries...
222. ...a patient to a different pain medication. These include practical considerations such as lower cost or unavailability of a drug at the patient's preferred pharmacy, or medical reasons such as lack of **effectiveness** of the current drug or to minimize adverse effects. Some patients request to be switched to a different narcotic due to stigma associated with a particular drug (e.g. a patient refusing methadone due...
223. ...feit medications A counterfeit medication or a counterfeit drug is a medication or pharmaceutical item which is produced and sold with the intent to deceptively represent its origin, authenticity, or **effectiveness**. A counterfeit drug may contain inappropriate quantities of active ingredients, or none, may be improperly processed within the body ("e.g.", absorption by the body), may contain ingredients that are...
224. ...iduals on long-term benzodiazepines be monitored at least every 3 months and also recommended against long-term substitution therapy in benzodiazepine drug misusers due to a lack of evidence base for **effectiveness** and due to the risks of long-term use. The long-term effects of benzodiazepines are very similar to the long-term effects of alcohol consumption (apart from organ toxicity) and other sedative-hypnoti...
225. ...range of conditions and situations. Dr Mason (DHSS) and Dr Moir (SHHD) felt that, due to the large numbers of people using benzodiazepines for long periods of time, it was important to determine the **effectiveness** and toxicity of benzodiazepines before deciding what regulatory action to take. Controversy resulted in 2010 when the previously secret files came to light over the fact that the Medical Research Cou...

=== RATE (525 occurrences) ===
1. ...reas, human waste, domestic animals, and domestic animal/livestock waste. Wild migrating birds interact with sedentary birds in different environments along their migration route.  This increases the **rate** and diversity of AMR across varying ecosystems. Neglect of wildlife in the global discussions surrounding health security and AMR, creates large barriers to true AMR surveillance. The surveillance of...
2. ...al discussions surrounding health security and AMR, creates large barriers to true AMR surveillance. The surveillance of anti-microbial resistant organisms in wild birds is a potential metric for the **rate** of AMR in the environment. This surveillance also allows for further investigation into the transmission routs between different ecosystems and human populations (including domesticated animals and l...
3. ...Other infections, however, do require long courses regardless of whether a person feels better. Delaying antibiotics for ailments such as a sore throat and otitis media may have no difference in the **rate** of complications compared with immediate antibiotics, for example. When treating respiratory tract infections, clinical judgement is required as to the appropriate treatment (delayed or immediate ant...
4. ...iotic resistance can also be acquired as a result of either genetic mutation or horizontal gene transfer. Although mutations are rare, with spontaneous mutations in the pathogen genome occurring at a **rate** of about 1 in 10 to 1 in 10 per chromosomal replication, the fact that bacteria reproduce at a high rate allows for the effect to be significant. Given that lifespans and production of new generation...
5. ...Although mutations are rare, with spontaneous mutations in the pathogen genome occurring at a rate of about 1 in 10 to 1 in 10 per chromosomal replication, the fact that bacteria reproduce at a high **rate** allows for the effect to be significant. Given that lifespans and production of new generations can be on a timescale of mere hours, a new (de novo) mutation in a parent cell can quickly become an in...
6. ...ever, chromosomal mutations also confer a cost of fitness. For example, a ribosomal mutation may protect a bacterial cell by changing the binding site of an antibiotic but may result in slower growth **rate**. Moreover, some adaptive mutations can propagate not only through inheritance but also through horizontal gene transfer. The most common mechanism of horizontal gene transfer is the transferring of p...
7. ...id diagnostic methods have also been trialled as antimicrobial stewardship interventions to influence the healthcare drivers of AMR. Serum procalcitonin measurement has been shown to reduce mortality **rate**, antimicrobial consumption and antimicrobial-related side-effects in patients with respiratory infections, but impact on AMR has not yet been demonstrated. Similarly, point of care serum testing of t...
8. ...s conducted which failed to show efficacy. Merck tested V710, a vaccine targeting IsdB, in a blinded randomized trial in patients undergoing median sternotomy. The trial was terminated after a higher **rate** of multiorgan system failure–related deaths was found in the V710 recipients. Vaccine recipients who developed "S. aureus" infection were five times more likely to die than control recipients who dev...
9. ...are taken in a rotation versus taking just one antibiotic such that bacteria resistant to one antibiotic are killed when the next antibiotic is taken. Studies have found that this method reduces the **rate** at which antibiotic resistant bacteria emerge in vitro relative to a single drug for the entire duration. Studies have found that bacteria that evolve antibiotic resistance towards one group of antib...
10. ...se particles larger than 1 μm tend to sediment, and thus the substance would no longer be considered a colloidal suspension. The colloidal particles are said to be in sedimentation equilibrium if the **rate** of sedimentation is equal to the rate of movement from Brownian motion. There are two principal ways to prepare colloids: The stability of a colloidal system is defined by particles remaining suspend...
11. ...sediment, and thus the substance would no longer be considered a colloidal suspension. The colloidal particles are said to be in sedimentation equilibrium if the rate of sedimentation is equal to the **rate** of movement from Brownian motion. There are two principal ways to prepare colloids: The stability of a colloidal system is defined by particles remaining suspended in solution and depends on the inte...
12. ...search and prescribing. Pharmacokinetics is the movement of the drug in the body, it is usually described as 'what the body does to the drug' the physico-chemical properties of a drug will affect the **rate** and extent of absorption, extent of distribution, metabolism and elimination. The drug needs to have the appropriate molecular weight, polarity etc. in order to be absorbed, the fraction of a drug th...
13. ...r with the use of certain serotonergic medications or drugs. The symptoms can range from mild to severe, and are potentially fatal. Symptoms in mild cases include high blood pressure and a fast heart **rate**; usually without a fever. Symptoms in moderate cases include high body temperature, agitation, increased reflexes, tremor, sweating, dilated pupils, and diarrhea. In severe cases, body temperature ca...
14. ...s to graduate medical school education in New York State. Symptom onset is usually relatively rapid, and SS encompasses a wide range of clinical findings. Mild symptoms may consist of increased heart **rate**, shivering, sweating, dilated pupils, myoclonus (intermittent jerking or twitching), as well as hyperreflexia (overresponsive reflexes). Many of these symptoms may be side effects of the drug or drug...
15. ...clonus in moderate cases may be greater in the lower limbs than in the upper limbs. Mental changes include hypervigilance or insomnia and agitation. Severe symptoms include severe increases in heart **rate** and blood pressure. Temperature may rise to above in life-threatening cases. Other abnormalities include metabolic acidosis, rhabdomyolysis, seizures, kidney failure, and disseminated intravascular c...
16. ...novo combinatorial chemistry-synthesized chemical has been approved for clinical use by FDA (sorafenib, a multikinase inhibitor indicated for advanced renal cancer). The analysis of the poor success **rate** of the approach has been suggested to connect with the rather limited chemical space covered by products of combinatorial chemistry. When comparing the properties of compounds in combinatorial chemis...
17. ...current development as hypnotics. Cannabis consumption produces a dose-dependent state of intoxication in humans. There is commonly increased blood flow to the skin, which leads to an increased heart **rate** and sensations of warmth or flushing. It also frequently induces increased hunger. Iversen (2000) categorized the subjective and behavioral effects often associated with cannabis into three stages. T...
18. ...ge of mental disorders and have decreased the need for long-term hospitalization, thereby lowering the cost of mental health care. The recidivism or rehospitalization of the mentally ill is at a high **rate** in many countries, and the reasons for the relapses are under research. Several significant psychiatric drugs were developed in the mid-20th century. In 1948, lithium was first used as a psychiatric...
19. ...ffects that mimic or copy the actions of the sympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system is a part of the nervous system that prepares the body for action, such as increasing the heart **rate**, blood pressure, and breathing rate. Stimulants can activate the same receptors as the natural chemicals released by the sympathetic nervous system (namely epinephrine and norepinephrine) and cause s...
20. ...s of the sympathetic nervous system. The sympathetic nervous system is a part of the nervous system that prepares the body for action, such as increasing the heart rate, blood pressure, and breathing **rate**. Stimulants can activate the same receptors as the natural chemicals released by the sympathetic nervous system (namely epinephrine and norepinephrine) and cause similar effects. Stimulants in therap...
21. ...noia. Most drugs classified as stimulants are sympathomimetics, that is they stimulate the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system. This leads to effects such as mydriasis, increased heart **rate**, blood pressure, respiratory rate and body temperature. When these changes become pathological, they are called arrhythmia, hypertension, and hyperthermia, and may lead to rhabdomyolysis, stroke, car...
22. ...mulants are sympathomimetics, that is they stimulate the sympathetic branch of the autonomic nervous system. This leads to effects such as mydriasis, increased heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory **rate** and body temperature. When these changes become pathological, they are called arrhythmia, hypertension, and hyperthermia, and may lead to rhabdomyolysis, stroke, cardiac arrest, or seizures. However,...
23. ...the activity of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Common effects may include increased alertness, awareness, wakefulness, endurance, productivity, and motivation, arousal, locomotion, heart **rate**, and blood pressure, and a diminished desire for food and sleep. Use of stimulants may cause the body to reduce significantly its production of natural body chemicals that fulfill similar functions....
24. ...s initiated by the pacemaker cells, (myenteric interstitial cells of Cajal). The gut has intrinsic peristaltic activity (basal electrical rhythm) due to its self-contained enteric nervous system. The **rate** can be modulated by the rest of the autonomic nervous system. The coordinated contractions of these layers is called peristalsis and propels the food through the tract. Food in the GI tract is called...
25. ...h hydrogen analysis, scintigraphic analysis following a radiolabeled meal, and simple ingestion and spotting of corn kernels. It takes 2.5 to 3 hours for 50% of the contents to leave the stomach. The **rate** of digestion is also dependent of the material being digested, as food composition from the same meal may leave the stomach at different rates. Total emptying of the stomach takes around 4–5 hours, a...
26. ...used as an aphrodisiac called 'Love Stone'. In China, it is used as a heart medication called "Chan su". Research shows that the toad skin secretion containing this compound can reduce a toad’s heart **rate**, but its effect on humans is unknown. Yohimbine is a substance found in the bark of yohim trees in West Africa. It was traditionally used in West African cultures, in which the bark would be boiled a...
27. ...make the tablets visually attractive or aid in visual identification of an unknown tablet. A polymer coating is often applied to make the tablet smoother and easier to swallow, to control the release **rate** of the active ingredient, to make it more resistant to the environment (extending its shelf life), or to enhance the tablet's appearance.  Medicinal tablets were originally made in the shape of a dis...
28. ...e very simple mixing equipment, and can take a considerable time to achieve a uniformly mixed state. High shear wet granulation processes use equipment that mixes the powder and liquid at a very fast **rate**, and thus speeds up the manufacturing process. Fluid bed granulation is a multiple-step wet granulation process performed in the same vessel to pre-heat, granulate, and dry the powders. It is used be...
29. ...nes. Enteric coatings are also used for medicines that can be negatively affected by taking a long time to reach the small intestine, where they are absorbed. Coatings are often chosen to control the **rate** of dissolution of the drug in the gastrointestinal tract. Some drugs are absorbed better in certain parts of the digestive system. If this part is the stomach, a coating is selected that dissolves qu...
30. ...e gastrointestinal tract. Some drugs are absorbed better in certain parts of the digestive system. If this part is the stomach, a coating is selected that dissolves quickly and easily in acid. If the **rate** of absorption is best in the large intestine or colon, a coating is used that is acid resistant and dissolves slowly to ensure that the tablet reaches that point before dispersing. To measure the dis...
31. ...ars and proteins nor the molasses are absorbed in the lower intestine, thus keeping the water from the enema in the intestine. Studies have shown that milk and molasses enemas have a low complication **rate** when used in the emergency department and are safe and effective with minimal side effects. Mineral oil functions as a lubricant and stool softener, but may have side effects including rectal skin ir...
32. ...stine absorbs the alcohol far more quickly than the stomach. Preceding an enema for administration of drugs or alcohol, a cleansing enema may first be used for cleaning the colon to help increase the **rate** of absorption. All across Mesoamerica ritual enemas were employed to consume psychoactive substances, e.g., balché, alcohol, tobacco, peyote, and other hallucinogenic drugs and entheogens, most notab...
33. ...onship between perinatal exposure to arsenic and infant mortality, meaning that infants born to people exposed to higher concentrations, or exposed for longer periods of time, have a higher mortality **rate**. Studies have shown that ingesting arsenic through groundwater during pregnancy poses dangers to the pregnant person including, but not limited to abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, skin pigmentatio...
34. ...esearch has also demonstrated that arsenic exposure also causes low birth weight, low birth size, infant mortality, and a variety of other outcomes in infants. Some of these effects, like lower birth-**rate** and size may be due to the effects of arsenic on weight gain during pregnancy. Detergent A detergent is a surfactant or a mixture of surfactants with cleansing properties when in dilute solutions. Th...
35. ...limited by the diffusion of the surfactant to the interface. In some cases, there can exist an energetic barrier to adsorption or desorption of the surfactant. If such a barrier limits the adsorption **rate**, the dynamics are said to be ‘kinetically limited'. Such energy barriers can be due to steric or electrostatic repulsions. The surface rheology of surfactant layers, including the elasticity and visc...
36. ...apor stream and vaporized. Solids form as moisture quickly leaves the droplets. A nozzle is usually used to make the droplets as small as possible, maximizing surface area hence heat transfer and the **rate** of water vaporization. Droplet sizes can range from 20 to 180 μm depending on the nozzle. There are two main types of nozzles: high pressure single fluid nozzle (50 to 300 bars) and two-fluid nozzles...
37. ...icles.  Common input parameters: From the following input parameters comes a series of pathways a particle can take towards its yielded shape and size. Certain parameters like spraying gas flow, feed **rate**, and the solution concentration heavily influence the yielded particle size, whereas the inlet temperature plays a significant role into the shape of the particle at the end. Particle size has a grea...
38. ...de escapes. Fluoride is distinct in this regard among the halides. The identity of the solvent can have a dramatic effect on the equilibrium shifting it to the right-hand side, greatly increasing the **rate** of decomposition. Salts containing fluoride are numerous and adopt myriad structures. Typically the fluoride anion is surrounded by four or six cations, as is typical for other halides. Sodium fluori...
39. ...oximately, 50% of absorbed fluoride is excreted renally with a twenty-four-hour period. The remainder can be retained in the oral cavity, and lower digestive tract. Fasting dramatically increases the **rate** of fluoride absorption to near 100%, from a 60% to 80% when taken with food. Per a 2013 study, it was found that consumption of one litre of tea a day, can potentially supply the daily recommended in...
40. ...le vancomycin. Failure to properly calculate and administer an infusion can result in adverse effects, termed infusion reactions. For this reason, many medications have a maximum recommended infusion **rate**, such as vancomycin and many monoclonal antibodies. These infusion reactions can be severe, such as in the case of vancomycin, where the reaction is termed "red man syndrome". Any additional medicati...
41. ...nistered in this way travels through the veins to the heart, from where it is distributed to the rest of the body through the circulatory system. The size of the peripheral vein limits the amount and **rate** of medication which can be administered safely. A peripheral line consists of a short catheter inserted through the skin into a peripheral vein. This is usually in the form of a cannula-over-needle d...
42. ...ng above the height of the person and the solution is pulled via gravity through a tube attached to a needle inserted into a vein. Without extra equipment, it is not possible to precisely control the **rate** of administration. For this reason, a setup may also incorporate a clamp to regulate flow. Some IV lines may be placed with "Y-sites", devices which enable a secondary solution to be administered thr...
43. ...red through the same line (known as piggybacking). Some systems employ a drip chamber, which prevents air from entering the bloodstream (causing an air embolism), and allows visual estimation of flow **rate** of the solution. Alternatively, an infusion pump allows precise control over the flow rate and total amount delivered. A pump is programmed based on the number and size of infusions being administere...
44. ...h prevents air from entering the bloodstream (causing an air embolism), and allows visual estimation of flow rate of the solution. Alternatively, an infusion pump allows precise control over the flow **rate** and total amount delivered. A pump is programmed based on the number and size of infusions being administered to ensure all medicine is fully administered without allowing the access line to run dry....
45. ...ased on the number and size of infusions being administered to ensure all medicine is fully administered without allowing the access line to run dry. Pumps are primarily utilized when a constant flow **rate** is important, or where changes in rate of administration would have consequences. To reduce pain associated with the procedure, medical staff may apply a topical local anaesthetic (such as EMLA or Am...
46. ...s being administered to ensure all medicine is fully administered without allowing the access line to run dry. Pumps are primarily utilized when a constant flow rate is important, or where changes in **rate** of administration would have consequences. To reduce pain associated with the procedure, medical staff may apply a topical local anaesthetic (such as EMLA or Ametop) to the skin of the chosen venipun...
47. ...ium, which when administered IV can cause a burning or painful sensation. The incidence of side effects specific to a medication can be affected by the type of access (peripheral versus central), the **rate** of administration, or the quantity of drug administered. When medications are administered too rapidly through an IV line, a set of vague symptoms such as redness or rash, fever, and others may occur...
48. ...are administered too rapidly through an IV line, a set of vague symptoms such as redness or rash, fever, and others may occur; this is termed an "infusion reaction" and is prevented by decreasing the **rate** of administration of the medication. When vancomycin is involved, this is commonly termed "Red Man syndrome" after the rapid flushing which occurs after rapid administration. As placement of an intra...
49. ...volve computer-aided drug design. Despite advances in technology and understanding of biological systems, drug discovery is still a lengthy, "expensive, difficult, and inefficient process" with a low **rate** of new therapeutic discovery. In 2010, the research and development cost of each new molecular entity (NME) was approximately US$1.8 billion. Drug discovery is done by pharmaceutical companies, somet...
50. ...e first blockbuster drug. Antibiotics first arrived on the medical scene in 1932 thanks to Gerhard Domagk; and were coined the "wonder drugs". The introduction of the sulfa drugs led to the mortality **rate** from pneumonia in the U.S. to drop from 0.2% each year to 0.05% by 1939. Antibiotics inhibit the growth or the metabolic activities of bacteria and other microorganisms by a chemical substance of mic...
51. ...antipsychotics to an older, mid-potency typical antipsychotic, perphenazine, among 1,493 persons with schizophrenia. The study found that only olanzapine outperformed perphenazine in discontinuation **rate** (the rate at which people stopped taking it due to its effects). The authors noted an apparent superior efficacy of olanzapine to the other drugs in terms of reduction in psychopathology and rate of...
52. ...otics to an older, mid-potency typical antipsychotic, perphenazine, among 1,493 persons with schizophrenia. The study found that only olanzapine outperformed perphenazine in discontinuation rate (the **rate** at which people stopped taking it due to its effects). The authors noted an apparent superior efficacy of olanzapine to the other drugs in terms of reduction in psychopathology and rate of hospitaliz...
53. ...ion rate (the rate at which people stopped taking it due to its effects). The authors noted an apparent superior efficacy of olanzapine to the other drugs in terms of reduction in psychopathology and **rate** of hospitalizations, but olanzapine was associated with relatively severe metabolic effects such as a major weight gain problem (averaging 9.4 lbs over 18 months) and increases in glucose, cholestero...
54. ...peroxide. In biology this type of reaction is called a dismutation reaction. It involves both oxidation and reduction of superoxide ions. The superoxide dismutase (SOD) group of enzymes increase the **rate** of reaction to near the diffusion-limited rate. The key to the action of these enzymes is a metal ion with variable oxidation state that can act either as an oxidizing agent or as a reducing agent. I...
55. ...called a dismutation reaction. It involves both oxidation and reduction of superoxide ions. The superoxide dismutase (SOD) group of enzymes increase the rate of reaction to near the diffusion-limited **rate**. The key to the action of these enzymes is a metal ion with variable oxidation state that can act either as an oxidizing agent or as a reducing agent. In human SOD, the active metal is copper, as Cu(...
56. ...ked. Because of the drug's very long half-life, the Centers for Disease Control originally recommended a mefloquine dosage of 250 mg every two weeks; however, this caused an unacceptably high malaria **rate** in the Peace Corps volunteers who participated in the approval study, so the drug regimen was switched to once a week. By 1991, Hoffman was marketing the drug on a worldwide basis. By the 1992 UNITAF...
57. ...m vary but has been estimated to be as high as 800,000 during the 1960s and 1970s. A more recent study from 2004 estimated the number of exposed workers in the United States to be around 134,000. The **rate** of workers becoming sensitized to beryllium varies based on genetics and exposure levels. In one study researchers found the prevalence of beryllium sensitization to range from 9–19% depending on the...
58. ...eet the diagnostic criteria for chronic beryllium disease. In one study of nuclear workers, among those who were sensitized to beryllium, 66% were found to have chronic beryllium disease as well. The **rate** of progression from beryllium sensitization to chronic beryllium disease has been estimated to be approximately 6–8% per year. Stopping exposure to beryllium in those sensitized has not been definiti...
59. ...de-resistant "Acinetobacter baumannii". In short, the lack of concerted effort by governments and the pharmaceutical industry, together with the innate capacity of microbes to develop resistance at a **rate** that outpaces development of new drugs, suggests that existing strategies for developing viable, long-term anti-microbial therapies are ultimately doomed to failure. Without alternative strategies, t...
60. ...ood kinetics) and thermodynamics. Langmuir suggested that adsorption takes place through this mechanism: formula_10, where "A" is a gas molecule, and "S" is an adsorption site. The direct and inverse **rate** constants are "k" and "k". If we define surface coverage, formula_11, as the fraction of the adsorption sites occupied, in the equilibrium we have: or where formula_4 is the partial pressure of the g...
61. ...ximity to an adsorbate molecule that has already formed on the surface, it has a sticking probability reflected by the size of the S constant and will either be adsorbed from the precursor state at a **rate** of "k" or will desorb into the gaseous phase at a rate of "k". If an adsorbate molecule enters the precursor state at a location that is remote from any other previously adsorbed adsorbate molecules,...
62. ...on the surface, it has a sticking probability reflected by the size of the S constant and will either be adsorbed from the precursor state at a rate of "k" or will desorb into the gaseous phase at a **rate** of "k". If an adsorbate molecule enters the precursor state at a location that is remote from any other previously adsorbed adsorbate molecules, the sticking probability is reflected by the size of t...
63. ...s part of a single constant termed a "sticking coefficient", "k", described below: As S is dictated by factors that are taken into account by the Langmuir model, S can be assumed to be the adsorption **rate** constant. However, the rate constant for the Kisliuk model ("R"’) is different from that of the Langmuir model, as "R"’ is used to represent the impact of diffusion on monolayer formation and is prop...
64. ...termed a "sticking coefficient", "k", described below: As S is dictated by factors that are taken into account by the Langmuir model, S can be assumed to be the adsorption rate constant. However, the **rate** constant for the Kisliuk model ("R"’) is different from that of the Langmuir model, as "R"’ is used to represent the impact of diffusion on monolayer formation and is proportional to the square root...
65. ...to say, adsorption is more exothermic than liquefaction. The adsorption of ensemble molecules on a surface or interface can be divided into two processes: adsorption and desorption. If the adsorption **rate** wins the desorption rate, the molecules will accumulate over time giving the adsorption curve over time. If the desorption rate is larger, the number of molecules on the surface will decrease over ti...
66. ...e exothermic than liquefaction. The adsorption of ensemble molecules on a surface or interface can be divided into two processes: adsorption and desorption. If the adsorption rate wins the desorption **rate**, the molecules will accumulate over time giving the adsorption curve over time. If the desorption rate is larger, the number of molecules on the surface will decrease over time. The adsorption rate i...
67. ...ivided into two processes: adsorption and desorption. If the adsorption rate wins the desorption rate, the molecules will accumulate over time giving the adsorption curve over time. If the desorption **rate** is larger, the number of molecules on the surface will decrease over time. The adsorption rate is dependent on the temperature, the diffusion rate of the solute (related to mean free path for pure ga...
68. ...n rate, the molecules will accumulate over time giving the adsorption curve over time. If the desorption rate is larger, the number of molecules on the surface will decrease over time. The adsorption **rate** is dependent on the temperature, the diffusion rate of the solute (related to mean free path for pure gas), and the energy barrier between the molecule and the surface. The diffusion and key elements...
69. ...ng the adsorption curve over time. If the desorption rate is larger, the number of molecules on the surface will decrease over time. The adsorption rate is dependent on the temperature, the diffusion **rate** of the solute (related to mean free path for pure gas), and the energy barrier between the molecule and the surface. The diffusion and key elements of the adsorption rate can be calculated using Fick...
70. ...e temperature, the diffusion rate of the solute (related to mean free path for pure gas), and the energy barrier between the molecule and the surface. The diffusion and key elements of the adsorption **rate** can be calculated using Fick's laws of diffusion and Einstein relation (kinetic theory). Under ideal conditions, when there is no energy barrier and all molecules that diffuse and collide with the su...
71. ...nd slowing down of the concentration gradient evolution have to be considered over a longer time. Under real experimental conditions, the flow and the small adsorption area always make the adsorption **rate** faster than what this equation predicted, and the energy barrier will either accelerate this rate by surface attraction or slow it down by surface repulsion. Thus, the prediction from this equation i...
72. ...Under real experimental conditions, the flow and the small adsorption area always make the adsorption rate faster than what this equation predicted, and the energy barrier will either accelerate this **rate** by surface attraction or slow it down by surface repulsion. Thus, the prediction from this equation is often a few to several orders of magnitude away from the experimental results. Under special cas...
73. ...ch as a very small adsorption area on a large surface, and under chemical equilibrium when there is no concentration gradience near the surface, this equation becomes useful to predict the adsorption **rate** with debatable special care to determine a specific value of formula_37 in a particular measurement. The desorption of a molecule from the surface depends on the binding energy of the molecule to the...
74. ...formula_37 in a particular measurement. The desorption of a molecule from the surface depends on the binding energy of the molecule to the surface and the temperature. The typical overall adsorption **rate** is thus often a combined result of the adsorption and desorption. Since 1980 two theories were worked on to explain adsorption and obtain equations that work. These two are referred to as the chi hyp...
75. ...HO molecules are dissociated into surface adsorbed -H and -OH, or molecular adsorption (associative adsorption) where individual water molecules remain intact  The low cost ($200/ton) and high cycle **rate** (2,000 ×) of synthetic zeolites such as Linde 13X with water adsorbate has garnered much academic and commercial interest recently for use for thermal energy storage (TES), specifically of low-grade...
76. ...eft-hand drive (LHD). A referendum in 1955 overwhelmingly rejected a change to RHT, but, a few years later, the government ordered it and it occurred on Sunday, 3 September 1967 at 5 am. The accident **rate** then dropped sharply, but soon rose to near its original level. The day was known as Högertrafikomläggningen, or Dagen H for short. When Iceland switched to RHT the following year, it was known as "H...
77. ...the recipient's skin, to deliver the medication via intramuscular injection. People to whom epinephrine autoinjectors are prescribed need to be trained how to use the specific device prescribed. The **rate** of unintentional injections using these devices is unknown but a 2009 review found that the rate is increasing. Unintentional injections are delivered to a finger or thumb around 90% of the time; the...
78. ...ephrine autoinjectors are prescribed need to be trained how to use the specific device prescribed. The rate of unintentional injections using these devices is unknown but a 2009 review found that the **rate** is increasing. Unintentional injections are delivered to a finger or thumb around 90% of the time; they cause intense pain locally but usually completely resolve. The cause of unintentional injection...
79. ...sing no further change in the particle's velocity. This velocity is known as the terminal velocity, "settling velocity" or "fall velocity" of the particle. This is readily measurable by examining the **rate** of fall of individual particles. The terminal velocity of the particle is affected by many parameters, i.e. anything that will alter the particle's drag. Hence the terminal velocity is most notably d...
80. ....96 million in 2021 and is expected to rise with a CAGR of 5.5% from 2022- 2028 during the forecast period. In the United Kingdom, generic drug pricing is controlled by the government's reimbursement **rate**. The price paid by pharmacists and doctors is determined mainly by the number of license holders, the sales value of the original brand, and the ease of manufacture. A typical price decay graph will...
81. ...ith the polymerization type. In conventional bulk free radical polymerization, the dispersity is often controlled by the proportion of chains that terminate via combination or disproportionation. The **rate** of reaction for free radical polymerization is exceedingly quick, due to the reactivity of the radical intermediates. When these radicals react in any reactor, their lifetimes, and as a result, the t...
82. ...s of micelles, the kinetics of unimer exchange are very different. While in surfactant systems the unimers leave and join the micelles through a diffusion-controlled process, for copolymers the entry **rate** constant is slower than a diffusion controlled process. The rate of this process was found to be a decreasing power-law of the degree of polymerization of the hydrophobic block to the power 2/3. This...
83. .... While in surfactant systems the unimers leave and join the micelles through a diffusion-controlled process, for copolymers the entry rate constant is slower than a diffusion controlled process. The **rate** of this process was found to be a decreasing power-law of the degree of polymerization of the hydrophobic block to the power 2/3. This difference is due to the coiling of the hydrophobic block of a c...
84. ...result in varying levels of the substance to be deposited in their respective initial cavities, and the level of mucus in either of these cavities will reflect the amount of substance swallowed. The **rate** of inhalation will usually determine the amount of the substance which enters the lungs. Faster inhalation results in more rapid absorption because more substance finds the lungs. Substances in a for...
85. ...fail absorption in the former cavities and are swallowed. Neural drug delivery is the next step beyond the basic addition of growth factors to nerve guidance conduits. Drug delivery systems allow the **rate** of growth factor release to be regulated over time, which is critical for creating an environment more closely representative of in vivo development environments. Subcutaneous administration Subcutan...
86. ...skin) administration of fluids to the body, often saline or glucose solutions. It is the infusion counterpart of subcutaneous injection with a syringe. Subcutaneous infusion can be used where a slow **rate** of fluid uptake is required compared to intravenous infusion. Typically, it is limited to 1 mL per minute, although it is possible to increase this by using two sites simultaneously. The chief advant...
87. ...topical and require training to perform appropriately, without which complications can arise regardless of the medication being administered. For this reason, unless there are desired differences in **rate** of absorption, time to onset, or other pharmacokinetic parameters in the specific situation, a less invasive form of drug administration (usually by mouth) is preferred. Intramuscular injections are...
88. ...from an investigation is influenced by the amount of radioactivity administered in megabecquerels (MBq), the physical properties of the radiopharmaceutical used, its distribution in the body and its **rate** of clearance from the body. Effective doses can range from 6 μSv (0.006 mSv) for a 3 MBq chromium-51 EDTA measurement of glomerular filtration rate to 11.2 mSv (11,200 μSv) for an 80 MBq thallium-201...
89. ...ceutical used, its distribution in the body and its rate of clearance from the body. Effective doses can range from 6 μSv (0.006 mSv) for a 3 MBq chromium-51 EDTA measurement of glomerular filtration **rate** to 11.2 mSv (11,200 μSv) for an 80 MBq thallium-201 myocardial imaging procedure. The common bone scan with 600 MBq of technetium-99m MDP has an effective dose of approximately 2.9 mSv (2,900 μSv). F...
90. ...on drug prices anywhere from 4 to 10 times more than other countries, even if they are more advanced or industrialized, and that prescription drug prices have increased twice as much as the inflation **rate** over the last 12 years. A quarter of Americans taking prescription drugs said in June 2015, they had not filled a prescription in the past 12 months due to cost, and 18 percent reported they "cut pil...
91. ...en though there are no significant improvements to the drug. Between 2014 and 2015 alone over 260 brand name prescription drugs increased in price by an average of 15.5 percent which is 130 times the **rate** of general inflation. This system creates a natural monopoly for the drug companies meaning that they can drive the price up without facing any punishment from the federal government. Generic drugs t...
92. ...discovered using single molecule optical tweezers measurement that calcium-bound vWF acts as a shear force sensor in the blood. Shear force leads to unfolding of the A2 domain of vWF whose refolding **rate** is dramatically enhanced in the presence of calcium. Ca ion flow regulates several secondary messenger systems in neural adaptation for visual, auditory, and the olfactory system. It may often be bou...
93. ...he stomach, which may not be (and usually is not) complete. Magnesium orotate may be used as adjuvant therapy in patients on optimal treatment for severe congestive heart failure, increasing survival **rate** and improving clinical symptoms and patient's quality of life. In 2022, magnesium salts were the 207th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 1million prescriptions....
94. ...agnesium deficiency also leads to disease. Plants deficient in magnesium show stress responses. The first observable signs of both magnesium starvation and overexposure in plants is a decrease in the **rate** of photosynthesis. This is due to the central position of the Mg ion in the chlorophyll molecule. The later effects of magnesium deficiency on plants are a significant reduction in growth and reprodu...
95. ...inities for Mg. The use of the fluorescent dyes is limited to measuring the free Mg. If the ion concentration is buffered by the cell by chelation or removal to subcellular compartments, the measured **rate** of uptake will give only minimum values of km and Vmax. First, ion-specific microelectrodes can be used to measure the internal free ion concentration of cells and organelles. The major advantages ar...
96. ...e water at a selective pore before releasing the ion on the far side of the membrane. Due to the properties of Mg, large volume change from hydrated to bare ion, high energy of hydration and very low **rate** of ligand exchange in the inner coordination sphere, these steps are probably more difficult than for most other ions. To date, only the ZntA protein of Paramecium has been shown to be a Mg channel....
97. ...). Plant stress responses can be observed in plants that are under- or over-supplied with Mg. The first observable signs of Mg stress in plants for both starvation and toxicity is a depression of the **rate** of photosynthesis, it is presumed because of the strong relationships between Mg and chloroplasts/chlorophyll. In pine trees, even before the visible appearance of yellowing and necrotic spots, the p...
98. ...erosis (MS). It is produced by mammalian cells, while interferon beta-1b is produced in modified "E. coli". Some research indicates that interferon injections may result in an 18–38% reduction in the **rate** of MS relapses. Interferon beta has not been shown to slow the advance of disability. Interferons are not a cure for MS (there is no known cure); the claim is that interferons may slow the progress o...
99. ...e the "most productive period in the history of orphan drug development, in terms of average annual orphan drug designations and orphan drug approvals". For the same decade the compound annual growth **rate** (CAGR) of the orphan drugs was an "impressive 25.8%, compared to only 20.1% for a matched control group of non-orphan drugs". By 2012, the market for orphan drugs was worth US$637 million, compared w...
100. ...ected to increase with wider use of public subsidies. The 2014 Orphan Drug report stated that the percentage of orphan drug sales as part of all prescription drug sales had been increasing at a rapid **rate**. The report projected a total of US$176 billion by 2020. Although orphan disease populations are the smallest, the cost of per-patient outlays among them are the largest and are expected to increase...
101. ...r drugs, as a 2011 study found that between 2004 and 2010 orphan drug trials were more likely to be smaller and less randomized than their non-orphan counterparts, but still had a higher FDA approval **rate**, with 15 orphan cancer drugs being approved, while only 12 non-orphan drugs were approved. This allows manufactures to get cost to the point that it is economically feasible to produce these treatmen...
102. ...t £30,000 for 12 weeks treatment. NHS England established 22 Operational Delivery Networks to roll out delivery and proposes to fund 10,000 courses of treatment in 2016-17. Each has been given a “run **rate**” of how many patients they are allowed to treat. This is the NHS’ single biggest new treatment investment this year. In the North East London network patients with cirrhosis or fibrosis go to the fro...
103. ...as the carbon source in photosynthesis. The root, especially the root hair, a unique cell, is the essential organ for the uptake of nutrients. The structure and architecture of the root can alter the **rate** of nutrient uptake. Nutrient ions are transported to the center of the root, the stele, in order for the nutrients to reach the conducting tissues, xylem and phloem. The Casparian strip, a cell wall...
104. ...symptoms are seen in the youngest tissues first. Symptoms of deficiency include yellowing of leaves and stunted growth. The effect of a nutrient deficiency can vary from a subtle depression of growth **rate** to obvious stunting, deformity, discoloration, distress, and even death. Visual symptoms distinctive enough to be useful in identifying a deficiency are rare. Most deficiencies are multiple and moder...
105. ...than is protein synthesis. Deficiencies of Ca, K, and S affect the conversion of organic N to protein more than uptake and reduction. The size of the pool of soluble N is no guide "per se" to growth **rate**, but the size of the pool in relation to total N might be a useful ratio in this regard. Nitrogen availability in the rooting medium also affects the size and structure of tracheids formed in the lon...
106. ...ilizer. Calcium borate is less soluble and can be made from sodium tetraborate. Boron is often applied to fields as a contaminant in other soil amendments but is not generally adequate to make up the **rate** of loss by cropping. The rates of application of borate to produce an adequate alfalfa crop range from 15 pounds per acre for a sandy-silt, acidic soil of low organic matter, to 60 pounds per acre fo...
107. ...tudies are available on the safety of herbs for pregnant women, and one study found that use of complementary and alternative medicines is associated with a 30% lower ongoing pregnancy and live birth **rate** during fertility treatment. Examples of herbal treatments with likely cause-effect relationships with adverse events include aconite (which is often a legally restricted herb), Ayurvedic remedies, br...
108. ...dition for oral bioavailability as it allows for transcellular transport through intestinal epithelial cells. In addition to intestinal permeability, the molecule must also possess a reasonably rapid **rate** of dissolution into water and adequate water solubility and moderate to low first pass metabolism. A somewhat lower molecular weight cutoff of 500 daltons (as part of the "rule of five") has been rec...
109. ...ethanol on worms fed a normal diet. In 2010, a paper in the journal "Environmental Toxicology & Chemistry" showed that low doses of methylmercury, a potent neurotoxic pollutant, improved the hatching **rate** of mallard eggs. The author of the study, Gary Heinz, who led the study for the U.S. Geological Survey at the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center in Beltsville, stated that other explanations are possi...
110. ...nese average. In Taiwan, recycled radiocontaminated steel was inadvertently used in the construction of over 100 apartment buildings, causing the long-term exposure of 10,000 people. The average dose **rate** was 50 mSv/year and a subset of the population (1,000 people) received a total dose over 4,000 mSv over ten years. In the widely used linear no-threshold model used by regulatory bodies, the expected...
111. ...odies, the expected cancer deaths in this population would have been 302 with 70 caused by the extra ionizing radiation, with the remainder caused by natural background radiation. The observed cancer **rate**, though, was quite low at 7 cancer deaths when 232 would be predicted by the LNT model had they not been exposed to the radiation from the building materials. Ionizing radiation hormesis appears to b...
112. ...testing, safety evaluation, and marketing of these drugs. The global pharmaceuticals market produced treatments worth a total of $1,228.45 billion in 2020. The sector showed a compound annual growth **rate** (CAGR) of 1.8% in 2021, including the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. In historical terms, a pharmaceutical industry as an intellectual concept arose within the middle to late 1800s inside of certa...
113. ...ing cough, meningococcal infections, and pneumonia), and found a 56% decline over the same period. Notable among these was a 75% decline in deaths due to tuberculosis. During the years 1940–1955, the **rate** of decline in the U.S. death rate accelerated from 2% per year to 8% per year, then returned to the historical rate of 2% per year. The dramatic decline in the immediate post-war years has been attri...
114. ...s, and pneumonia), and found a 56% decline over the same period. Notable among these was a 75% decline in deaths due to tuberculosis. During the years 1940–1955, the rate of decline in the U.S. death **rate** accelerated from 2% per year to 8% per year, then returned to the historical rate of 2% per year. The dramatic decline in the immediate post-war years has been attributed to the rapid development of...
115. ...se was a 75% decline in deaths due to tuberculosis. During the years 1940–1955, the rate of decline in the U.S. death rate accelerated from 2% per year to 8% per year, then returned to the historical **rate** of 2% per year. The dramatic decline in the immediate post-war years has been attributed to the rapid development of new treatments and vaccines for infectious disease that occurred during these year...
116. ...o of Merck and Co. discovered and developed chlorothiazide, which remains the most widely used antihypertensive drug today. This development was associated with a substantial decline in the mortality **rate** among people with hypertension. The inventors were recognized by a Public Health Lasker Award in 1975 for "the saving of untold thousands of lives and the alleviation of the suffering of millions of...
117. ...veloping a successful new drug (new chemical entity, or NCE), has been estimated at US$1.3 billion (not including marketing expenses). Professors Light and Lexchin reported in 2012, however, that the **rate** of approval for new drugs has been a relatively stable average rate of 15 to 25 for decades. Industry-wide research and investment reached a record $65.3 billion in 2009. While the cost of research i...
118. ...en estimated at US$1.3 billion (not including marketing expenses). Professors Light and Lexchin reported in 2012, however, that the rate of approval for new drugs has been a relatively stable average **rate** of 15 to 25 for decades. Industry-wide research and investment reached a record $65.3 billion in 2009. While the cost of research in the U.S. was about 34.2 billion between 1995 and 2010, revenues ro...
119. ...rovide grants and loan guarantees). Despite advances in technology and understanding of biological systems, drug discovery is still a lengthy, "expensive, difficult, and inefficient process" with low **rate** of new therapeutic discovery. In 2010, the research and development cost of each new molecular entity was about US$1.8 billion. In the 21st century, basic discovery research is funded primarily by go...
120. ...he two classes of methionine synthases (i.e. cobalamin-dependent (EC 2.1.1.13) or cobalamin-independent (EC 2.1.1.14)). This methionine can then be converted back to SAM, completing the cycle. In the **rate**-limiting step of the SAM cycle, MTHFR (methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase) irreversibly reduces 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate to 5-methyltetrahydrofolate. A large number of enzymes cleave SAM reduc...
121. ...Trastuzumab has had a "major impact in the treatment of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer." The combination of trastuzumab with chemotherapy has been shown to increase both survival and response **rate**, in comparison to trastuzumab alone. It is possible to determine the "erbB2 status" of a tumor, which can be used to predict efficacy of treatment with trastuzumab. If it is determined that a tumor i...
122. ...m an inefficient nebulizer system to a highly efficient one. Two advantages attributed to nebulizers, compared to MDIs with spacers (inhalers), are their ability to deliver larger dosages at a faster **rate**, especially in acute asthma; however, recent data suggests actual lung deposition rates are the same. In addition, another trial found that a MDI (with spacer) had a lower required dose for clinical...
123. ...he Foregger Company. In anaesthesia, fresh gas flow is the mixture of medical gases and volatile anaesthetic agents which is produced by an anaesthetic machine and has not been recirculated. The flow **rate** and composition of the fresh gas flow is determined by the anaesthetist. Typically the fresh gas flow emerges from the common gas outlet, a specific outlet on the anaesthetic machine to which the bre...
124. ...monitoring the composition of the breathing gas, and for removing carbon dioxide. A modern anaesthetic machine includes at minimum the following components: Systems for monitoring the patient's heart **rate**, ECG, blood pressure and oxygen saturation may be incorporated, in some cases with additional options for monitoring end-tidal carbon dioxide and temperature. Breathing systems are also typically inc...
125. ...peractive-impulsive subtype of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. Intravenous caffeine administration can return these patients' behavior to baseline levels. Some case reports postulate a high **rate** (10-20%) of paradoxical response to anesthesia in ADHD patients, though this has not been objectively corroborated in controlled studies. Benzodiazepines, a class of psychoactive drugs called the "mi...
126. ...kinetics. Irreversible antagonists covalently bind to the receptor target and, in general, cannot be removed; inactivating the receptor for the duration of the antagonist effects is determined by the **rate** of receptor turnover, the rate of synthesis of new receptors. Phenoxybenzamine is an example of an irreversible alpha blocker—it permanently binds to α adrenergic receptors, preventing adrenaline and...
127. ...sts covalently bind to the receptor target and, in general, cannot be removed; inactivating the receptor for the duration of the antagonist effects is determined by the rate of receptor turnover, the **rate** of synthesis of new receptors. Phenoxybenzamine is an example of an irreversible alpha blocker—it permanently binds to α adrenergic receptors, preventing adrenaline and noradrenaline from binding. In...
128. ...petitive antagonists are reversible and activity of agonist will be restored. Irreversible competitive antagonists also involve competition between the agonist and antagonist of the receptor, but the **rate** of covalent bonding differs and depends on affinity and reactivity of the antagonist. For some antagonists, there may be a distinct period during which they behave competitively (regardless of basal...
129. ...t through constant interaction. Other possibilities include a reduction in receptor density (usually associated with receptor agonists), other mechanisms leading to changes in action potential firing **rate**, or alterations in protein transcription among others adaptations. Pharmacodynamic tolerance to a receptor antagonist involves the reverse, i.e., increased receptor firing rate, an increase in recept...
130. ...ction potential firing rate, or alterations in protein transcription among others adaptations. Pharmacodynamic tolerance to a receptor antagonist involves the reverse, i.e., increased receptor firing **rate**, an increase in receptor density, or other mechanisms. While most occurrences of pharmacodynamic tolerance occur after sustained exposure to a drug, instances of acute or instant tolerance (tachyphyl...
131. ...oncours", with "numerus apertus") happening at the end of the first year of health studies. Most candidates hold a Scientific Baccalaureate from the equivalent to high schools (lycée). Yearly success **rate** depends on the university's current "numerus clausus" and the number or registered students, ranging from 10 to 30% bearing in mind that second-time participants are three to four times more likely t...
132. ...time that particular drug is effective. Duration of action is a function of several parameters including plasma half-life, the time to equilibrate between plasma and target compartments, and the off **rate** of the drug from its biological target. In recreational psychoactive drug spaces, duration refers to the length of time over which the subjective effects of a psychoactive substance manifest themselv...
133. ...in substances such as cannabis, LSD in low to high doses, and ketamine. The binding of ligands (drug) to receptors is governed by the "law of mass action" which relates the large-scale status to the **rate** of numerous molecular processes. The rates of formation and un-formation can be used to determine the equilibrium concentration of bound receptors. The "equilibrium dissociation constant" is defined...
134. ...rea. Preliminary experimentation has shown that hydrogen can be stored in the nanofoam at room temperature in a reversible process. Carbon nanofoam clusters can be synthesized through high-repetition-**rate** laser ablation in inert gases such as argon. Short (fs), low-energy (μJ) pulses delivered at high rates of repetition (10 kHz – 100 MHz) generate carbon vapors for deposition. Ambient gas is heated f...
135. ...at temperatures above the formation threshold temperature initiating sp bonding. The increase in density and temperature promotes favorable conditions for the formation of carbonaceous clusters. The **rate** of consumption exceeds the rate of evaporation by laser ablation and thus the formation is in a non-equilibrium state. Dermis The dermis or corium is a layer of skin between the epidermis (with which...
136. ...tion threshold temperature initiating sp bonding. The increase in density and temperature promotes favorable conditions for the formation of carbonaceous clusters. The rate of consumption exceeds the **rate** of evaporation by laser ablation and thus the formation is in a non-equilibrium state. Dermis The dermis or corium is a layer of skin between the epidermis (with which it makes up the cutis) and subc...
137. ...ing a drug solution or suspension separated by the adhesive layer. The drug reservoir is totally encapsulated in a shallow compartment molded from a drug-impermeable metallic plastic laminate, with a **rate**-controlling membrane made of a polymer like vinyl acetate on one surface. This patch is also backed by the backing layer. In this type of system the rate of release is zero order. Reservoir patches s...
138. ...impermeable metallic plastic laminate, with a rate-controlling membrane made of a polymer like vinyl acetate on one surface. This patch is also backed by the backing layer. In this type of system the **rate** of release is zero order. Reservoir patches should not be cut (with the exception of hyoscine hyrdobromide 1.5mg patch according to the British National Formulary for Children). The matrix system has...
139. ...en). The matrix system has a drug layer of a semisolid matrix containing a drug solution or suspension. The adhesive layer in this patch surrounds the drug layer, partially overlaying it. The release **rate** is determined by the physical properties of the matrix. Also known as a monolithic device. Limited research indicates that it may be possible to cut some matrix patches to provide lower doses, provid...
140. ...bioavailability and to calculate the drug dose needed for the drug taker to achieve systemic concentrations similar to the intravenous formulation. To dose without knowing the drug taker's absorption **rate**, the bottom value of the deviation range is used in order to ensure the intended efficacy, unless the drug is associated with a narrow therapeutic window. For dietary supplements, herbs and other nut...
141. ...does not appear to give rise to cross-resistance to other nRTIs; mutations at positions 65, 74, 75, 184 and 215 in the "pol" gene are observed more rarely. Zalcitabine has a very high oral absorption **rate** of over 80%. It is predominantly eliminated by the renal route, with a half-life of 2 hours. Zalcitabine is an analog of pyrimidine. It is a derivative of the naturally existing deoxycytidine, made b...
142. ...anuary 2023; there was no reduction to the concession copayment. Despite the changes being announced to assist Australians with the cost of living amid rising interest rates and the general copayment **rate** reduced to be 20% lower than when Labor last held office in 2013, the concession rate remained 19% higher than it had been in 2013.  The 1 January 2023 general copayment reduction was the first decre...
143. ...eing announced to assist Australians with the cost of living amid rising interest rates and the general copayment rate reduced to be 20% lower than when Labor last held office in 2013, the concession **rate** remained 19% higher than it had been in 2013.  The 1 January 2023 general copayment reduction was the first decrease since the inception of the PBS. In an effort to limit the cost of PBS by discourag...
144. ...pture the elastic and viscous material properties of a material. In an elastic material, the stress is proportional to the strain while in a viscous material, the stress is proportional to the strain **rate**. The Maxwell model is one developed mathematical model for linear viscoelastic response. In this model, viscoelasticity is modeled analogous to an electrical circuit with a Hookean spring, that repre...
145. .... This causes a decrease in water pressure, which adds additional stress upon compression. Similar to viscoelasticity, this behavior is time dependent, thus poroelasticity is dependent on compression **rate**: a hydrogel shows softness upon slow compression, but fast compression makes the hydrogel stiffer. This phenomenon is due to the friction between the water and the porous matrix is proportional to th...
146. ...compression makes the hydrogel stiffer. This phenomenon is due to the friction between the water and the porous matrix is proportional to the flow of water, which in turn is dependent on compression **rate**. Thus, a common way to measure poroelasticity is to do compression tests at varying compression rates. Pore size is an important factor in influencing poroelasticity. The Kozeny–Carman equation has b...
147. ...tchiness may occur. Also, only small particles can pass through the skin, which limits the choice of drugs. Since skin is the main medium of topical drug delivery system, its conditions determine the **rate** of skin penetration leading to affecting the pharmacokinetics of the drug. The temperature, pH value and dryness of the skin need to be considered. There are some novel topical drugs in the market wh...
148. ...ls underneath the skin or need to diffuse into blood capillary to exert their effect. Meanwhile, the size of particles affects this transdermal process. The smaller the drug molecules, the faster the **rate** of penetration. Polarity of the drugs can affect this diffusion rate too. If the drug shows lower degree of ionization, it is less polar. Therefore, it can have a faster absorption rate. The definiti...
149. ...rt their effect. Meanwhile, the size of particles affects this transdermal process. The smaller the drug molecules, the faster the rate of penetration. Polarity of the drugs can affect this diffusion **rate** too. If the drug shows lower degree of ionization, it is less polar. Therefore, it can have a faster absorption rate. The definition of the topical route of administration sometimes states that both...
150. ...he faster the rate of penetration. Polarity of the drugs can affect this diffusion rate too. If the drug shows lower degree of ionization, it is less polar. Therefore, it can have a faster absorption **rate**. The definition of the topical route of administration sometimes states that both the application location and the pharmacodynamic effect thereof is local. In other cases, "topical" is defined as app...
151. ...t of the base of a medication. Although containing the same active ingredients, one manufacturer's cream might be more acidic than the next, which could cause skin irritation or change its absorption **rate**. For example, a vaginal formulation of miconazole antifungal cream might irritate the skin less than an athlete's foot formulation of miconazole cream. These variations can, on occasion, result in di...
152. ...e in moisturizing tendency. For topical steroid products, oil-in-water emulsions are common. Creams have a significant risk of causing immunological sensitization due to preservatives and have a high **rate** of acceptance by patients. There is a great variation in ingredients, composition, pH, and tolerance among generic brands. Topical corticosteroid foams are suitable for treating a range of skin condi...
153. ...to fragrances and preservatives. Gel is useful for hairy areas and body folds. In applying gel one should avoid fissures in the skin, due to the stinging effect of the alcohol base. Gel enjoys a high **rate** of acceptance due to its cosmetic elegance. Lotions are similar to solution but are thicker and tend to be more emollient in nature than solution. They are usually oil mixed with water, and more ofte...
154. ...ch may only have adhesive on the patch rim or drug release may be controlled by release from a polymer matrix. Cutting a patch might cause rapid dehydration of the base of the medicine and affect the **rate** of diffusion. Some medications are applied as an ointment or gel, and reach the mucous membrane via vaporization. Examples are nasal topical decongestants and smelling salt. Topical drug classificati...
155. ...products which is very successful for decades. There are 3 aspects to assess and 4 classes in total. The 3 aspects include qualitative (Q1), quantitative (Q2) and similarity of in vitro release (IVR) **rate** (Q3). In the early 1970s, the Alza Corporation, through their founder Alejandro Zaffaroni, filed the first US patents describing transdermal delivery systems for scopolamine, nitroglycerin and nicoti...
156. ...hough they have not been proven to be more effective than smoking cessation medicine. There is concern with the possibility that non-smokers and children may start nicotine use with e-cigarettes at a **rate** higher than anticipated than if they were never created. Following the possibility of nicotine addiction from e-cigarette use, there is concern children may start smoking cigarettes. Youth who use e-...
157. ...g in excess of 100,000 compounds per day. With the ability of rapid screening of diverse compounds (such as small molecules or siRNAs) to identify active compounds, HTS has led to an explosion in the **rate** of data generated in recent years Consequently, one of the most fundamental challenges in HTS experiments is to glean biochemical significance from mounds of data, which relies on the development and...
158. ...This has been confirmed and extended by Sine and colleagues (2009). The implication of this work is that efficacy has to be defined by at least two equilibrium constants (or, more generally, by four **rate** constants). The combined influences of affinity and efficacy determine how effectively a drug will produce a biological effect, a property known as potency. In medicine, efficacy is the capacity for...
159. ...allergens. Occasionally, other coating materials are used, for example synthetic polymers, shellac, corn protein zein or other polysaccharides. Capsules are coated with gelatin. Enterics control the **rate** of drug release and determine where the drug will be released in the digestive tract. Materials used for enteric coatings include fatty acids, waxes, shellac, plastics, and plant fibers. Colours are...
160. ...get into than private practices, since appointments have to go through headquarters, the survey found. 13.3% of offices with just one or two doctors won't see representatives, compared with a no-see **rate** of 42% at offices with 10 or more doctors. The most accessible physicians for promotional purposes are allergists/immunologists – only 4.2% won't see reps at all – followed by orthopedic specialists...
161. ...plied by a finger to the lips, or in a lipstick-style tube from which it can be applied directly. In 2022, the global lip balm market was valued at US$732.76 mln. The market is predicted to grow at a **rate** of 9.28% within the next five years and is likely to reach US$1247.74 mln by 2027. Production for lip balms includes the following stages: Since 40 BC, the Egyptians made treatment for lip care, whic...
162. ...gh it could borrow against it. Gilead would benefit from proposals to let companies repatriate offshore capital with minimal further taxation. Gilead's Entospletinib has shown a 90% complete response **rate** for MLL type acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Several mass tort lawsuits have been filed against Gilead alleging that the company deliberately delayed development of antiretroviral drugs based on tenof...
163. ...d has been criticized for tax avoidance. Tax avoidance, as opposed to tax evasion, is the use of legal means to shift tax burdens from the one jurisdiction to overseas affiliates that pay a lower tax **rate**, even if revenue is primarily generated outside the overseas jurisdiction. A 2016 report by the liberal think tank Americans for Tax Fairness argued that Gilead was able to avoid up to $10 billion in...
164. ...tities. In particular, Gilead sells intellectual property to an Irish subsidiary, which then sells the finished products, such as Sovaldi, in the United States and elsewhere, paying the low Irish tax **rate** on profits. The practice is common among multinational pharmaceutical companies like Gilead. On December 26, 2018, "The Times" reported that Gilead had used the Double Irish arrangement to avoid U.S....
165. ...n just two years" without paying Irish taxes. The company repatriated a portion of the Irish subsidiary's holdings, $28 billion, to the United States in 2018 following reductions of the corporate tax **rate**. For this it paid an estimated $5.5 billion in tax. Gilead sought and obtained orphan drug designation for remdesivir from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on March 23, 2020. This designatio...
166. ...s about drugs' side effects can contribute to the causation of such effects, whether the drug is real or not. This effect has been observed in clinical trials: according to a 2013 review, the dropout **rate** among placebo-treated patients in a meta-analysis of 41 clinical trials of Parkinson's disease treatments was 8.8%. A 2013 review found that nearly 1 out of 20 patients receiving a placebo in clinica...
167. ...and potential exposure to the drugs administered to the mother. There is no overall difference in outcomes based on the time the epidural is administered to the mother, specifically no change in the **rate** of caesarean section, birth which must be assisted by instruments, and duration of labor. There is also no change in the Apgar score of the newborn between early and late epidural administration. Epi...
168. ...ragm responsible for breathing, which may lead to respiratory depression or arrest. It may also result in loss of sympathetic nerve input to the heart, which may cause a significant decrease in heart **rate** and blood pressure. Obese people, those who have given birth prior, those with a history of opiate use, or those with cervical dilation of more than 7 cm are at a higher risk of inadequate pain contr...
169. ...r is often placed for the duration of the epidural infusion. In many women given epidural analgesia during labor oxytocin is also used to augment uterine contractions. In one study which examined the **rate** of breastfeeding two days following epidural anesthesia during childbirth, epidural analgesia used in combination with oxytocin resulted in lower maternal oxytocin and prolactin levels in response to...
170. ...own that the use of epidural analgesia during labor does not have any statistically significant effect on the necessity to perform a cesarean delivery. A 2018 Cochrane review found no increase in the **rate** of Caesarean delivery when epidural analgesia was employed. However, epidural analgesia does lengthen the second stage of labor by 15 to 30 minutes, which may increase the risk a delivery must be ass...
171. ...receive epidural analgesia during childbirth. Even in countries with universal healthcare coverage such as Canada, socioeconomic factors such as race, financial stability, and education influence the **rate** at which women receive epidural analgesia. One survey in 2014 found that over half of pregnant women in a Nigerian antenatal clinic (79.5%) did not know what epidural analgesia was or what it was use...
172. ...intents and purposes, the same. One article defined bioequivalence by stating that, "two pharmaceutical products are bioequivalent if they are pharmaceutically equivalent and their bioavailabilities (**rate** and extent of availability) after administration in the same molar dose are similar to such a degree that their effects, with respect to both efficacy and safety, can be expected to be essentially th...
173. ...For The World Health Organization (WHO) "two pharmaceutical products are bioequivalent if they are pharmaceutically equivalent or pharmaceutical alternatives, and their bioavailabilities, in terms of **rate** (Cmax and tmax) and extent of absorption (area under the curve), after administration of the same molar dose under the same conditions, are similar to such a degree that their effects can be expected...
174. ...ree that their effects can be expected to be essentially the same". The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has defined bioequivalence as, "the absence of a significant difference in the **rate** and extent to which the active ingredient or active moiety in pharmaceutical equivalents or pharmaceutical alternatives becomes available at the site of drug action when administered at the same mola...
175. ...range for C can be expanded (up to 69.84–143.19%). In Australia, the Therapeutics Goods Administration (TGA) considers preparations to be bioequivalent if the 90% confidence intervals (90% CI) of the **rate** ratios, between the two preparations, of "C" and AUC lie in the range 0.80–1.25. "T" should also be similar between the products. There are tighter requirements for drugs with a narrow therapeutic in...
176. ...that will lead to decreased or increased CYP2D6 activity respectively. If such a drug is taken at the same time as a second drug that is a CYP2D6 substrate, the first drug may affect the elimination **rate** of the second through what is known as a drug-drug interaction. The gene is located on chromosome 22q13.1. near two cytochrome P450 pseudogenes (CYP2D7P and CYP2D8P). Among them, CYP2D7P originated f...
177. ...atural or laboratory processes (in all the natural sciences), and did not refer to calculations done by computer generically. In silico study in medicine is thought to have the potential to speed the **rate** of discovery while reducing the need for expensive lab work and clinical trials. One way to achieve this is by producing and screening drug candidates more effectively. In 2010, for example, using th...
178. ...ive inhibitors "in vitro". This approach differs from use of expensive high-throughput screening (HTS) robotic labs to physically test thousands of diverse compounds a day, often with an expected hit **rate** on the order of 1% or less, with still fewer expected to be real leads following further testing (see drug discovery). As an example, the technique was utilized for a drug repurposing study in order...
179. ...c effect, if instead the metabolites of the drug is responsible for the effect. Compounds that increase the efficiency of the enzymes, on the other hand, may have the opposite effect and increase the **rate** of metabolism.  An example of this is shown in the following table for the CYP1A2 enzyme, showing the substrates (drugs metabolized by this enzyme) and some inductors and inhibitors of its activity:...
180. ...ry stimulation and hand-held video games may also help reduce anxiety during induction of general anesthesia. Toxicokinetics Toxicokinetics (often abbreviated as 'TK') is the description of both what **rate** a chemical will enter the body and what occurs to excrete and metabolize the compound once it is in the body. It is an application of pharmacokinetics to determine the relationship between the system...
181. ...for example, what parts (compartments) of the body a chemical may tend to enter (e.g. fat, liver, spleen, etc.), and whether or not the chemical is expected to be metabolized or excreted and at what **rate**. Four potential processes exist for a chemical interacting with an animal: absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME). Absorption describes the entrance of the chemical into the body,...
182. ...one study in the late 1950s, Humphry Osmond gave LSD to alcoholics in Alcoholics Anonymous who had failed to quit drinking. After one year, around 50% of the study group had not had a drink—a success **rate** that has never been duplicated by any other means. Bill Wilson, the founder of Alcoholics Anonymous, participated in medically supervised experiments on the effects of LSD on alcoholism and believed...
183. ...ents after trying hallucinogenic mushrooms used in Native American religious rituals while visiting Mexico. His group began conducting experiments on state prisoners, where they claimed a 90% success **rate** preventing repeat offenses. Later reexamination of Leary's data reveals his results to be skewed, whether intentionally or not; the percent of men in the study who ended up back in prison later in li...
184. ...ion of Leary's data reveals his results to be skewed, whether intentionally or not; the percent of men in the study who ended up back in prison later in life was approximately 2% lower than the usual **rate**. Leary was later introduced to LSD, and he then incorporated that drug into his research as his mental catalyst of choice. Leary claimed that his experiments produced no murders, suicides, psychotic...
185. ...h the body that involves the breakdown of the drug so that it can be excreted by the body. The metabolism of pharmaceutical drugs is an important aspect of pharmacology and medicine. For example, the **rate** of metabolism determines the duration and intensity of a drug's pharmacologic action. Drug metabolism also affects multidrug resistance in infectious diseases and in chemotherapy for cancer, and the...
186. ...lungs, kidneys, and the skin. These sites are usually responsible for localized toxicity reactions. The duration and intensity of pharmacological action of most lipophilic drugs are determined by the **rate** they are metabolized to inactive products. The Cytochrome P450 monooxygenase system is a crucial pathway in this regard. In general, anything that "increases" the rate of metabolism (e.g., enzyme ind...
187. ...lic drugs are determined by the rate they are metabolized to inactive products. The Cytochrome P450 monooxygenase system is a crucial pathway in this regard. In general, anything that "increases" the **rate** of metabolism (e.g., enzyme induction) of a pharmacologically active metabolite will "decrease" the duration and intensity of the drug action. The opposite is also true, as in enzyme inhibition. Howe...
188. ...cs, chemical reactors, atmospheric and environmental flows. Their work showed a characteristic lag-time in the shear-induced aggregation of the particles, which decreases exponentially with the shear **rate**. Since the 1940s, the DLVO theory has been used to explain phenomena found in colloidal science, adsorption and many other fields. Due to the more recent popularity of nanoparticle research, DLVO the...
189. ...e chosen primarily for their active ingredients. During formulation development, the excipients are chosen carefully so that the active ingredient can reach the target site in the body at the desired **rate** and extent. Patients often have difficulty identifying the active ingredients in their medication, as well as being unaware of the notion of an active ingredient. When patients are on multiple medica...
190. ...ing proteins over to that side. The presence of the cap changes the effectiveness of natural killer (NK) cells in destroying these B cells. When an NK cell latched onto the cap, it had an 80% success **rate** at killing the cell. In contrast, when the B cell lacked this asymmetric protein cluster, it was killed only 40% of the time. The following effects have been found: The combined effect results in the...
191. ...oduced by many cosmological, geological, meteorological, and biological processes. A significant fraction (by number, if not by mass) of interplanetary dust, that is still falling on the Earth at the **rate** of thousands of tons per year, is in the nanoparticle range; and the same is true of atmospheric dust particles. Many viruses have diameters in the nanoparticle range. Nanoparticles were used by arti...
192. ...Finally in 2014, an alternative fourth step was considered that accounted for a atomistic surface growth on a large particle. As of 2014, the classical nucleation theory explained that the nucleation **rate** will correspond to the driving force. One method for measuring the nucleation rate is through the induction time method. This process uses the stochastic nature of nucleation and determines the rate...
193. ...mistic surface growth on a large particle. As of 2014, the classical nucleation theory explained that the nucleation rate will correspond to the driving force. One method for measuring the nucleation **rate** is through the induction time method. This process uses the stochastic nature of nucleation and determines the rate of nucleation by analysis of the time between constant supersaturation and when cry...
194. ...rate will correspond to the driving force. One method for measuring the nucleation rate is through the induction time method. This process uses the stochastic nature of nucleation and determines the **rate** of nucleation by analysis of the time between constant supersaturation and when crystals are first detected. Another method includes the probability distribution model, analogous to the methods used...
195. ...erived. As of 2019, the early stages of nucleation and the rates associated with nucleation were modelled through multiscale computational modeling. This included exploration into an improved kinetic **rate** equation model and density function studies using the phase-field crystal model. The properties of a material in nanoparticle form are unusually different from those of the bulk one even when divided...
196. ...of the latter is adjusted by choosing the concentration of the reagents and the temperature of the solutions, and through the addition of suitable inert agents that affect the viscosity and diffusion **rate** of the liquid. With different parameters, the same general process may yield other nanoscale structures of the same material, such as aerogels and other porous networks.  The nanoparticles formed by...
197. ...due to attractive van der Waals forces can also give rise to microstructural heterogeneity. Differential stresses that develop as a result of non-uniform drying shrinkage are directly related to the **rate** at which the solvent can be removed, and thus highly dependent upon the distribution of porosity. Such stresses have been associated with a plastic-to-brittle transition in consolidated bodies, and c...
198. ...ia.  Tamoxifen is useful in the treatment of peripheral precocious puberty, for instance due to McCune–Albright syndrome, in both girls and boys. It has been found to decrease growth velocity and the **rate** of bone maturation in girls with precocious puberty, and hence to improve final height in these individuals. Tamoxifen is available as a tablet or oral solution. Tamoxifen has a number of contraindic...
199. ...ral different varieties of hepatotoxicity have been reported. Tamoxifen can also precipitate non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in obese and overweight women (not in normal weight women) at an average **rate** of 40% after a year use with 20 mg/day. Acute overdose of tamoxifen has not been reported in humans. In dose-ranging studies, tamoxifen was administered at very high doses in women (e.g., 300 mg/m) a...
200. ...preventable. Medication related harm incidence within 30 days after discharge ranged from 167 to 500 events per 1,000 individuals discharged (17–51% of individuals). In the U.S., females had a higher **rate** of ADEs involving opiates and narcotics than males in 2011, while male patients had a higher rate of anticoagulant ADEs. Nearly 8 in 1,000 adults aged 65 years or older experienced one of the four mo...
201. ...00 events per 1,000 individuals discharged (17–51% of individuals). In the U.S., females had a higher rate of ADEs involving opiates and narcotics than males in 2011, while male patients had a higher **rate** of anticoagulant ADEs. Nearly 8 in 1,000 adults aged 65 years or older experienced one of the four most common ADEs (steroids, antibiotics, opiates/narcotics, and anticoagulants) during hospitalizati...
202. ...exhaling or inhaling as oxygen is flowing from the time the system is activated. Below the oxygen mask is a rebreather bag that collects oxygen during exhalation and as a result allows a higher flow **rate** during the inhalation cycle. "Diluter-demand" and "pressure-demand" masks supply oxygen only when the user inhales. They each require a good seal between the mask and the user's face. In a "diluter-d...
203. ...ay cause changes in iris color and eyelid skin, growth of eyelashes, stinging, blurred vision, eye redness, itching, and burning. Beta blockers' side effects include low blood pressure, reduced pulse **rate**, fatigue, shortness of breath, and in rare occasions, reduced libido and depression. Alpha agonists can cause burning or stinging, fatigue, headache, drowsiness, dry mouth and nose, and also they hav...
204. ...g of the 2012 Olympics. He was quoted as saying "I cannot see that the long-term economic benefit of hosting the Games outweighs the costs and the horrific burden on the taxpayer, particularly London **rate**-payers. The cost for them is going to be astronomically high." Gent is an avid sports fan and enjoys golf, skiing and tennis. However, his real passion is cricket, having grown up next door to The Ov...
205. ...e Packer Protocol has since become a standard treatment for medulloblastoma. Likewise, cisplatin has been found to be particularly effective against testicular cancer, where its use improved the cure **rate** from 10% to 85%. Syntheses of cisplatin start from potassium tetrachloroplatinate. Several procedures are available. One obstacle is the facile formation of Magnus's green salt (MGS), which has the s...
206. ...he strength and direction of the force that needs to be scaled to the model spectrum. So most models only consider the Clausius-Mossotti factor of a particle.  The most used techniques are collection **rate** measurements: this is the simplest and most used technique – electrodes are submerged in a suspension with a known concentration of particles and the particles that collect at the electrode are count...
207. ...file. Particles that move further away from the wall reach higher positions in the parabolic velocity profile of the liquid flowing through the chamber and will be eluted from the chamber at a faster **rate**. The use of photoconductive materials (for example, in lab-on-chip devices) allows for localized inducement of dielectrophoretic forces through the application of light. In addition, one can project...
208. ...eservative used in some vaccines). No link has been found in several large studies, and despite removal of thimerosal from most early childhood vaccines beginning with those manufactured in 2003, the **rate** of autism has not decreased as would be expected if it had been the causative agent. Another instance is the potential adverse effects of silicone breast implants, which led to class actions brought...
209. ...ions, panic, paranoia, and psychosis. There is a strong relation between cannabis use and the risk of psychosis, though the direction of causality is debated. Physical effects include increased heart **rate**, difficulty breathing, nausea, and behavioral problems in children whose mothers used cannabis during pregnancy; short-term side effects may also include dry mouth and red eyes. Long-term adverse eff...
210. ...s, a euphoriant effect can occur within minutes of smoking. Aside from a subjective change in perception and mood, the most common short-term physical and neurological effects include increased heart **rate**, increased appetite, impairment of short-term and working memory, and impairment of psychomotor coordination. Additional desired effects from consuming cannabis include relaxation, a general alterati...
211. ...ites in the human brain. About 9% of those who experiment with marijuana eventually become dependent according to DSM-IV (1994) criteria. A 2013 review estimates daily use is associated with a 10–20% **rate** of dependence. The highest risk of cannabis dependence is found in those with a history of poor academic achievement, deviant behavior in childhood and adolescence, rebelliousness, poor parental rela...
212. ...resistance to the newer treatment. Combination therapy may seem costlier than monotherapy in the short term, but when it is used appropriately, it causes significant savings: lower treatment failure **rate**, lower case-fatality ratios, fewer side-effects than monotherapy, slower development of resistance, and thus less money needed for the development of new drugs. Combination therapy has gained momentu...
213. ...aste matrix to achieve a closed cell foam structure, instead of a metallic or a polymeric matrix. Cementitious syntactic foams have also been tested for their mechanical performance under high strain **rate** loading conditions to evaluate their energy dissipation capacity in crash cushions, blast walls, etc. Under these loading conditions, the glass microspheres of the cementitious syntactic foams did no...
214. ...arely to diffusions). A system of differential equations for concentration or quantity of substance on each compartment can be written, and its parameters represent blood flows, pulmonary ventilation **rate**, organ volumes etc., for which information is available in scientific publications. Indeed, the description they make of the body is simplified and a balance needs to be struck between complexity and...
215. ...mass transport, fluid dynamics, and biochemistry in order to simulate the fate of a substance in the body. Compartments are usually defined by grouping organs or tissues with similar blood perfusion **rate** and lipid content ("i.e." organs for which chemicals' concentration "vs." time profiles will be similar). Ports of entry (lung, skin, intestinal tract...), ports of exit (kidney, liver...) and target...
216. ...substance of interest does not distribute to it. Connections between compartment follow physiology ("e.g.", blood flow in exit of the gut goes to liver, "etc.") Drug distribution into a tissue can be **rate**-limited by either perfusion or permeability. Perfusion-rate-limited kinetics apply when the tissue membranes present no barrier to diffusion. Blood flow, assuming that the drug is transported mainly...
217. ...between compartment follow physiology ("e.g.", blood flow in exit of the gut goes to liver, "etc.") Drug distribution into a tissue can be rate-limited by either perfusion or permeability. Perfusion-**rate**-limited kinetics apply when the tissue membranes present no barrier to diffusion. Blood flow, assuming that the drug is transported mainly by blood, as is often the case, is then the limiting factor...
218. ...ood, as is often the case, is then the limiting factor to distribution in the various cells of the body. That is usually true for small lipophilic drugs. Under perfusion limitation, the instantaneous **rate** of entry for the quantity of drug in a compartment is simply equal to (blood) volumetric flow rate through the organ times the incoming blood concentration. In that case; for a generic compartment "i...
219. ...body. That is usually true for small lipophilic drugs. Under perfusion limitation, the instantaneous rate of entry for the quantity of drug in a compartment is simply equal to (blood) volumetric flow **rate** through the organ times the incoming blood concentration. In that case; for a generic compartment "i", the differential equation for the quantity "Q" of substance, which defines the rate of change in...
220. ...umetric flow rate through the organ times the incoming blood concentration. In that case; for a generic compartment "i", the differential equation for the quantity "Q" of substance, which defines the **rate** of change in this quantity, is: where "F" is blood flow (noted "Q" in the Figure above), "C" incoming arterial blood concentration, "P" the tissue over blood partition coefficient and "V" the volume...
221. ...n dealing with an oral bolus dose ("e.g." ingestion of a tablet), first order absorption is a very common assumption. In that case the gut equation is augmented with an input term, with an absorption **rate** constant "K": That requires defining an equation for the quantity ingested and present in the gut lumen: In the absence of a gut compartment, input can be made directly in the liver. However, in that...
222. ...However, in that case local metabolism in the gut may not be correctly described. The case of approximately continuous absorption ("e.g. via" drinking water) can be modeled by a zero-order absorption **rate** (here "R" in units of mass over time): More sophisticated gut absorption model can be used. In those models, additional compartments describe the various sections of the gut lumen and tissue. Intesti...
223. ...(to be completed) Inhalation occurs through the lung and is hardly dissociable from exhalation (to be completed) There are several ways metabolism can be modeled. For some models, a linear excretion **rate** is preferred. This can be accomplished with a simple differential equation. Otherwise a Michaelis-Menten equation, as follows, is generally appropriate for a more accurate result. PBPK models are com...
224. ...systems. Both of these delivery systems required frequent home visits by suppliers to replenish oxygen supplies. In the United States, Medicare switched from fee-for-service payment to a flat monthly **rate** for home oxygen therapy in the mid-1980s, causing the durable medical equipment (DME) industry to rapidly embrace concentrators as a way to control costs. This reimbursement change dramatically decre...
225. ...e membrane to allow the permeating gas to diffuse through the material of the membrane as a consequence of the pressure difference over the membrane, and can be measured in terms of the permeate flow **rate**, membrane thickness and area, and the pressure difference across the membrane. The selectivity of a membrane is a measure of the ratio of permeability of the relevant gases for the membrane. It can b...
226. ...both clinical and emergency-care situations, oxygen concentrators have the advantage of not being as dangerous as oxygen cylinders, which can, if ruptured or leaking, greatly increase the combustion **rate** of fire. As such, oxygen concentrators are particularly advantageous in military or disaster situations, where oxygen tanks may be dangerous or unfeasible. Oxygen concentrators are considered suffici...
227. ...t way to rapidly infuse needed medications and fluids in an emergency situation. In people who experience critical trauma and who do not have adequate blood pressure, the IO route doubles the success **rate** of the peripheral IV route. In addition to the emergency clinical scenario that can call for an IO route to be used, IO access is only indicated when access to peripheral veins is either not possible...
228. ...ngs are unknown. IO administration is becoming more common in civilian and military pre-hospital emergency medical services (EMS) systems globally. Intraosseous access has roughly the same absorption **rate** as IV access, and allows for fluid resuscitation. For example, sodium bicarbonate can be administered IO during a cardiac arrest when IV access is unavailable. High flow rates are attainable with an...
229. ...ample, sodium bicarbonate can be administered IO during a cardiac arrest when IV access is unavailable. High flow rates are attainable with an IO infusion, up to 125 milliliters per minute. This high **rate** of flow is achieved using a pressure bag to administer the infusion directly into the bone. Large volume IO infusions are known to be painful. 1% lidocaine is used to ease the pain associated with la...
230. ...nscious people. Like any medical procedure, intraosseous infusion has some potential complications. In a review by Tyler et al., an analysis across the included studies found the overall complication **rate** associated with IO infusions to be less than 1% (0.9%). Complications include: Many of these potential complications can be prevented with simple measures like using good technique and keeping the pe...
231. ...ug tolerance). It can occur after an initial dose or after a series of small doses. Increasing the dose of the drug may be able to restore the original response. Tachyphylaxis is characterized by the **rate** sensitivity: the response of the system depends on the rate with which a stimulus is presented. To be specific, a high-intensity prolonged stimulus or often-repeated stimulus may bring about a dimini...
232. ...series of small doses. Increasing the dose of the drug may be able to restore the original response. Tachyphylaxis is characterized by the rate sensitivity: the response of the system depends on the **rate** with which a stimulus is presented. To be specific, a high-intensity prolonged stimulus or often-repeated stimulus may bring about a diminished response also known as desensitization. In biological s...
233. ...A and causing an activation or an inhibition of the subsystem by forming an activated form of the macromolecule B. The following schematic represents the activity: formula_1 where p is the activation **rate** coefficient. It is customary that p is called a rate constant, but, since the p stands for measure of the intensity of the stimulus causing the activation, p may be variable (non-constant). More comp...
234. ...ubsystem by forming an activated form of the macromolecule B. The following schematic represents the activity: formula_1 where p is the activation rate coefficient. It is customary that p is called a **rate** constant, but, since the p stands for measure of the intensity of the stimulus causing the activation, p may be variable (non-constant). More complete is an open system, namely, in its simplest form,...
235. ...for measure of the intensity of the stimulus causing the activation, p may be variable (non-constant). More complete is an open system, namely, in its simplest form, formula_2 where R stands for the "**rate** of production" of A, p(S) is the "activation" rate coefficient explicitly expressing its dependence on the stimulus intensity S and q represents the rate coefficient of "removal" from the state B. In...
236. ...g the activation, p may be variable (non-constant). More complete is an open system, namely, in its simplest form, formula_2 where R stands for the "rate of production" of A, p(S) is the "activation" **rate** coefficient explicitly expressing its dependence on the stimulus intensity S and q represents the rate coefficient of "removal" from the state B. In this elementally open system the steady state of B...
237. ...plest form, formula_2 where R stands for the "rate of production" of A, p(S) is the "activation" rate coefficient explicitly expressing its dependence on the stimulus intensity S and q represents the **rate** coefficient of "removal" from the state B. In this elementally open system the steady state of B always equal to R/q. The above scheme is only the necessary condition for the rate sensitivity phenome...
238. ...nd q represents the rate coefficient of "removal" from the state B. In this elementally open system the steady state of B always equal to R/q. The above scheme is only the necessary condition for the **rate** sensitivity phenomenon, and other pathways of deactivation of B may be considered, with the subsequent return to the inactive form of the receptor/enzyme A. Examples offer particular use of such (mat...
239. ...until, in the late 1940s and early 1950s, scientists were able to identify specific neurotransmitters, such as norepinephrine (involved in the constriction of blood vessels and the increase in heart **rate** and blood pressure), dopamine (the chemical whose shortage is involved in Parkinson's disease), and serotonin (soon to be recognized as deeply connected to depression). In the 1950s, scientists also...
240. ...the process of phase separation. Removal of the remaining liquid (solvent) phase requires a drying process, which is typically accompanied by a significant amount of shrinkage and densification. The **rate** at which the solvent can be removed is ultimately determined by the distribution of porosity in the gel. The ultimate microstructure of the final component will clearly be strongly influenced by chan...
241. ...e molecular weight and poly-dispersity. Furthermore, multi-phase systems are very efficient dispersed and emulsified, so that very fine mixtures are provided. This means that ultrasound increases the **rate** of polymerisation over conventional stirring and results in higher molecular weights with lower polydispersities. Ormosils (organically modified silicate) are obtained when silane is added to gel-der...
242. ...ive powders of UO and ThO for nuclear fuels, without generation of large quantities of dust. Differential stresses that develop as a result of non-uniform drying shrinkage are directly related to the **rate** at which the solvent can be removed, and thus highly dependent upon the distribution of porosity. Such stresses have been associated with a plastic-to-brittle transition in consolidated bodies, and c...
243. ...s. With relaxation of the smooth muscles, the 'inward' pressure on the blood vessels decreases and they dilate, resulting in a drop in blood pressure and an immediate (compensatory) increase in heart **rate** (reflex tachycardia). Vasodilation may cause giddiness, dizziness, headache, nausea, vomiting and flushing, and may produce a sensation of heat and excitement. Maximum vasodilatory effect is usually...
244. ...of a "primary event" (heart attack) was reduced by 36% (relative risk reduction, RRR). The "absolute" risk reduction (ARR), however, was much smaller, because the study group did not have a very high **rate** of cardiovascular events over the study period: 2.67% in the control group, compared to 1.65% in the treatment group. Taking atorvastatin for 3.3 years, therefore, would lead to an ARR of only 1.02%...
245. ...ng tissue becomes diseased and fibrotic. As the alveoli increase in size, the surfactant becomes more spread out over the surface of the liquid. This increases surface tension effectively slowing the **rate** of expansion of the alveoli. This also helps all alveoli in the lungs expand at the same rate, as one that expands more quickly will experience a large rise in surface tension slowing its rate of exp...
246. ...es more spread out over the surface of the liquid. This increases surface tension effectively slowing the rate of expansion of the alveoli. This also helps all alveoli in the lungs expand at the same **rate**, as one that expands more quickly will experience a large rise in surface tension slowing its rate of expansion. It also means the rate of shrinking is more regular as if one reduces in size more qui...
247. ...ng the rate of expansion of the alveoli. This also helps all alveoli in the lungs expand at the same rate, as one that expands more quickly will experience a large rise in surface tension slowing its **rate** of expansion. It also means the rate of shrinking is more regular as if one reduces in size more quickly the surface tension will reduce more, so other alveoli can contract more easily than it can. S...
248. ...li. This also helps all alveoli in the lungs expand at the same rate, as one that expands more quickly will experience a large rise in surface tension slowing its rate of expansion. It also means the **rate** of shrinking is more regular as if one reduces in size more quickly the surface tension will reduce more, so other alveoli can contract more easily than it can. Surfactant reduces surface tension mor...
249. ...n. The surface increases during inspiration, which consequently opens space for new surfactant molecules to be recruited to the interface. Meanwhile, during expiration the surface area decreases at a **rate** which is always in excess of the rate at which the surfactant molecules are driven from the interface into the water film. Thus, the surfactant density at the air water interface remains high and is...
250. ...ation, which consequently opens space for new surfactant molecules to be recruited to the interface. Meanwhile, during expiration the surface area decreases at a rate which is always in excess of the **rate** at which the surfactant molecules are driven from the interface into the water film. Thus, the surfactant density at the air water interface remains high and is relatively preserved throughout expira...
251. ...R</chem> is the receptor. formula_7 can be expressed in terms of the total amount of receptor and ligand-bound receptor concentrations: formula_10. formula_3 is equal to the ratio of the dissociation **rate** of the ligand-receptor complex to its association rate (formula_12). Kd is the equilibrium constant for dissociation. formula_13 is defined so that formula_14, this is also known as the microscopic d...
252. ...terms of the total amount of receptor and ligand-bound receptor concentrations: formula_10. formula_3 is equal to the ratio of the dissociation rate of the ligand-receptor complex to its association **rate** (formula_12). Kd is the equilibrium constant for dissociation. formula_13 is defined so that formula_14, this is also known as the microscopic dissociation constant and is the ligand concentration oc...
253. ...y. The Hill equation can be used to describe dose-response relationships, for example ion channel open-probability (P-open) vs. ligand concentration. The Hill equation can be applied in modelling the **rate** at which a gene product is produced when its parent gene is being regulated by transcription factors (e.g., activators and/or repressors). Doing so is appropriate when a gene is regulated by multiple...
254. ...ion factors, in which case the transcription factors may bind the DNA in a cooperative fashion. If the production of protein from gene is up-regulated (activated) by a transcription factor , then the **rate** of production of protein can be modeled as a differential equation in terms of the concentration of activated protein: where is the maximal transcription rate of gene . Likewise, if the production of...
255. ...ed) by a transcription factor , then the rate of production of protein can be modeled as a differential equation in terms of the concentration of activated protein: where is the maximal transcription **rate** of gene . Likewise, if the production of protein from gene is down-regulated (repressed) by a transcription factor , then the rate of production of protein can be modeled as a differential equation i...
256. ...ncentration of activated protein: where is the maximal transcription rate of gene . Likewise, if the production of protein from gene is down-regulated (repressed) by a transcription factor , then the **rate** of production of protein can be modeled as a differential equation in terms of the concentration of activated protein: where is the maximal transcription rate of gene . Because of its assumption that...
257. ...ed) by a transcription factor , then the rate of production of protein can be modeled as a differential equation in terms of the concentration of activated protein: where is the maximal transcription **rate** of gene . Because of its assumption that ligand molecules bind to a receptor simultaneously, the Hill equation has been criticized as a physically unrealistic model. Moreover, the Hill coefficient sh...
258. ...sense that the slightest enantiomeric excess will be amplified to a completely homochiral state. This can be shown by computing the reaction rates from the law of mass action: where formula_19 is the **rate** constant for the autocatalytic reactions, formula_20 is the rate constant for mutual antagonism reaction, and the concentration of A is kept constant for simplicity. The analytical solutions for are...
259. ...a completely homochiral state. This can be shown by computing the reaction rates from the law of mass action: where formula_19 is the rate constant for the autocatalytic reactions, formula_20 is the **rate** constant for mutual antagonism reaction, and the concentration of A is kept constant for simplicity. The analytical solutions for are found to be formula_21 . The ratio formula_22 increases at a more...
260. ...al antagonism reaction, and the concentration of A is kept constant for simplicity. The analytical solutions for are found to be formula_21 . The ratio formula_22 increases at a more than exponential **rate** if formula_23 is positive (and vice versa). Every starting conditions different to formula_24 lead to one of the asymptotes formula_25 or formula_26. Thus the equality of formula_27 and formula_28 an...
261. ...and formula_30 represents a condition of unstable equilibrium, this result depending on the presence of the term representing mutual antagonism. By defining the enantiomeric excess formula_31 as the **rate** of change of enantiomeric excess can be calculated using chain rule from the rate of change of the concentrations of enantiomers and . Linear stability analysis of this equation shows that the racemi...
262. ...ing on the presence of the term representing mutual antagonism. By defining the enantiomeric excess formula_31 as the rate of change of enantiomeric excess can be calculated using chain rule from the **rate** of change of the concentrations of enantiomers and . Linear stability analysis of this equation shows that the racemic state formula_34 is unstable. Starting from almost everywhere in the concentrati...
263. ...impact velocities above 800 m/s, the CMF layer consistently absorbed up to 79% of the impact energy. As the impact velocity increased, so did the effective strength of the CMF layer due to the strain **rate** sensitivity of the material. The mass efficiency ratio of the armours, when compared to rolled homogeneous armour (RHA), was calculated to be 2.1. The CMF hard armours can effectively stop an incomin...
264. ...d piece of solid steel that failed the test in approximately 13 minutes. These studies indicate the extraordinary performance of CMF against fire and extreme heat. Composite metal foam has a very low **rate** of heat transfer and has proven to isolate an extreme temperature of 1,100 °C (2,000 °F) within only a few inches, leaving the material at room temperature just about two inches away from a region of...
265. ...animals and women. The endometrial transformation dosage of micronized NETA per cycle is 12 to 14 mg, whereas that for non-micronized NETA is 30 to 60 mg. NETA metabolizes into ethinylestradiol at a **rate** of 0.20 to 0.33% across a dose range of 10 to 40 mg. Peak levels of ethinylestradiol with a 10, 20, or 40 mg dose of NETA were 58, 178, and 231 pg/mL, respectively. For comparison, a 30 to 40 μg dose...
266. ...uivalent to 20 to 30 μg ethinylestradiol and 40 mg NETA may be similar to 50 μg ethinylestradiol. In another study however, 5 mg NETA produced an equivalent of 28 μg ethinylestradiol (0.7% conversion **rate**) and 10 mg NETA produced an equivalent of 62 μg ethinylestradiol (1.0% conversion rate). Due to its estrogenic activity via ethinylestradiol, high doses of NETA have been proposed for add-back in the...
267. ...estradiol. In another study however, 5 mg NETA produced an equivalent of 28 μg ethinylestradiol (0.7% conversion rate) and 10 mg NETA produced an equivalent of 62 μg ethinylestradiol (1.0% conversion **rate**). Due to its estrogenic activity via ethinylestradiol, high doses of NETA have been proposed for add-back in the treatment of endometriosis without estrogen supplementation. Generation of ethinylestr...
268. ...es it, it bleeds off. Some of the smallest infusion pumps use osmotic power. Basically, a bag of salt solution absorbs water through a membrane, swelling its volume. The bag presses medicine out. The **rate** is precisely controlled by the salt concentrations and pump volume. Osmotic pumps are usually recharged with a syringe. Spring-powered clockwork infusion pumps have been developed, and are sometimes...
269. ...ause an air embolism. Elastomeric pumps, also known as balloon pumps or ball pumps, rely on the gradual contraction of an internal elastomeric reservoir to deliver medication at a pre-determined flow **rate** over several hours or days. These pumps do not require electricity and offer simplicity and portability, making them suitable for administering various medications, including antibiotics, in situatio...
270. ...ys. These pumps do not require electricity and offer simplicity and portability, making them suitable for administering various medications, including antibiotics, in situations where continuous, low-**rate** infusion is required. These features make them useful for infusions in outpatient settings, such as outpatient parenteral antibiotic therapy (OPAT). However, due to their limited features and program...
271. ...n this reaction is called invertase, and it is the enzyme the kinetics of which have been supported by Michaelis and Menten to be revolutionary for the kinetics of other enzymes. While expressing the **rate** of the reaction studied, they derived an equation that described the rate in a way which suggested that it is mostly dependent on the enzyme concentration, as well as on presence of the substrate, bu...
272. ...which have been supported by Michaelis and Menten to be revolutionary for the kinetics of other enzymes. While expressing the rate of the reaction studied, they derived an equation that described the **rate** in a way which suggested that it is mostly dependent on the enzyme concentration, as well as on presence of the substrate, but only to a certain extent. Adrian John Brown and Victor Henri laid the gr...
273. ..., Leonor Michaelis was the first scientist to distinguish the different types of inhibition by using the pH scale which did not exist in Henri's time. Particularly during their work on describing the **rate** of this reaction they also tested and extrapolated on the idea of another scientist, Victor Henri, that enzyme they were using had some affinity for both products of this reaction – fructose and gluc...
274. ...or Henri, that enzyme they were using had some affinity for both products of this reaction – fructose and glucose. Using Henri's methods, Michaelis and Menten nearly perfected this concept of initial-**rate** method for steady-state experiments. They were studying inhibition when they found that non-competitive (mixed) inhibition is characterized by its effect on "k" (catalyst rate) while competitive is c...
275. ...this concept of initial-rate method for steady-state experiments. They were studying inhibition when they found that non-competitive (mixed) inhibition is characterized by its effect on "k" (catalyst **rate**) while competitive is characterized by its effect on velocity (V). In the Michaelis and Menten experiments they heavily focused on pH effects of invertase using hydrogen ions. Invertase is an enzyme...
276. ...ition in that the binding of the inhibitor does not prevent binding of substrate, and vice versa, but simply prevents product formation for a limited time. This type of inhibition reduces the maximum **rate** of a chemical reaction without changing the apparent binding affinity of the catalyst for the substrate (K – see Michaelis-Menten kinetics). When a non-competitive inhibitor is added the Vmax is chan...
277. ...aqueous and organic phases, takes place. Compared with other heterogeneous polymerization processes (suspension or emulsion) microemulsion polymerization is a more complicated system. Polymerization **rate** is controlled by monomer partitioning between the phases, particle nucleation, and adsorption and desorption of radicals. Particle stability is affected by the amount and type of surfactant and pH of...
278. ...of its pores: macroporous, mesoporous, and microporous. The surface of porous silicon may be modified to exhibit different properties. Often, freshly etched porous silicon may be unstable due to the **rate** of its oxidation by the atmosphere or unsuitable for cell attachment purposes. Therefore, it can be surface modified to improve stability and cell attachment Following the formation of porous silicon...
279. ...such as CHO cells and insect cells. Special considerations are required for the specific organisms used in the fermentation, such as the dissolved oxygen level, nutrient levels, and temperature. The **rate** of fermentation depends on the concentration of microorganisms, cells, cellular components, and enzymes as well as temperature, pH and level of oxygen for aerobic fermentation. Product recovery frequ...
280. ...because of the variation in fermentation processes. The most important methods are the maintenance of constant power consumption per unit of broth and the maintenance of constant volumetric transfer **rate**. Fermentation begins once the growth medium is inoculated with the organism of interest. Growth of the inoculum does not occur immediately. This is the period of adaptation, called the lag phase. Fol...
281. ...the growth medium is inoculated with the organism of interest. Growth of the inoculum does not occur immediately. This is the period of adaptation, called the lag phase. Following the lag phase, the **rate** of growth of the organism steadily increases, for a certain period—this period is the log or exponential phase. After a phase of exponential growth, the rate of growth slows down, due to the continuo...
282. ...e lag phase. Following the lag phase, the rate of growth of the organism steadily increases, for a certain period—this period is the log or exponential phase. After a phase of exponential growth, the **rate** of growth slows down, due to the continuously falling concentrations of nutrients and/or a continuously increasing (accumulating) concentrations of toxic substances. This phase, where the increase of...
283. ...rowth slows down, due to the continuously falling concentrations of nutrients and/or a continuously increasing (accumulating) concentrations of toxic substances. This phase, where the increase of the **rate** of growth is checked, is the deceleration phase. After the deceleration phase, growth ceases and the culture enters a stationary phase or a steady state. The biomass remains constant, except when cer...
284. ...organometallic, or nanomaterials depending on the physical and spectral properties required for the reaction. Photosensitizers that are readily incorporated into the external tissues can increase the **rate** at which reactive oxygen species are generated upon exposure to UV light (such as UV-containing sunlight). Some photosensitizing agents, such as St. John's Wort, appear to increase the incidence of i...
285. ...schizophrenia. A few others argued that it merely accelerated remission in those patients who were undergoing remission anyway. The consensus at the time was somewhere in between, claiming a success **rate** of about 50% in patients who had been ill for less than a year (about double the spontaneous remission rate) with no influence on relapse. Sakel suggested the therapy worked by "causing an intensific...
286. ...ng remission anyway. The consensus at the time was somewhere in between, claiming a success rate of about 50% in patients who had been ill for less than a year (about double the spontaneous remission **rate**) with no influence on relapse. Sakel suggested the therapy worked by "causing an intensification of the tonus of the parasympathetic end of the autonomic nervous system, by blockading the nerve cell,...
287. ...dosage forms may require additional time for gastric emptying, others suggested that the size, shape, or volume of the tablet possess no significant effects instead. Enteric coated granules emptying **rate** is, however, less affected by the presence of food and present the more uniform release and reproducible transit time typical of the multiparticulates dispersion. By preventing the drug from dissolvi...
288. ...pharmaceutical industry has been a key contributor to the country's impressive economic growth. As one of the world's major producers of pharmaceuticals, the sector achieved an annual compound growth **rate** of 16.7% between 1978 and 2003. Both far outpaced other economies in the world, making China the world's fastest growing pharmaceutical market. Although China has enjoyed the benefits of an expansive...
289. ...wn as a high-return and rapidly growing industry. After the Chinese market was reformed, China gradually makes space for a healthy, steady and rapidly developing pharmaceutical industry, where profit **rate** and growth rate are much higher than in other industries. In the view of high profit returns, regional governments often allow excessive development of regional medicine industries without careful an...
290. ...urn and rapidly growing industry. After the Chinese market was reformed, China gradually makes space for a healthy, steady and rapidly developing pharmaceutical industry, where profit rate and growth **rate** are much higher than in other industries. In the view of high profit returns, regional governments often allow excessive development of regional medicine industries without careful analysis of region...
291. ...e not even in the direct path of signal transduction, any of which may still be a target for specific therapy. At present, novel pharmacological approaches to diseases or conditions are reported at a **rate** of almost one per week. So far as we know, everything we perceive, feel, think, know, and do are a result of neurons firing and resetting. When a cell in the brain fires, small chemical and electrica...
292. ...flushing. More serious side effects include dyskinesias (especially when taking -DOPA), fluid accumulation in the limbs (edema), suddenly falling asleep, confusion and hallucinations, increased heart **rate** and heart palpitations, and persistent erections (priapism). The priapism is caused by apomorphine increasing arterial blood supply to the penis. This side effect has been exploited in studies attemp...
293. ...lowing receptors (note that a "higher" "K" indicates a "lower" affinity): It has a "K" of over 10,000 nM (and thus negligible affinity) for β-adrenergic, H, and mACh. Apomorphine has a high clearance **rate** (3–5 L/kg/hr) and is mainly metabolized and excreted by the liver. It is likely that while the cytochrome P450 system plays a minor role, most of apomorphine's metabolism happens via auto-oxidation,...
294. ...ry use, propellants, explosives, incendiary devices, and pyrotechnics. Research into military applications of nano-sized materials began in the early 1990s. Because of their highly increased reaction **rate**, nano-thermitic materials are being studied by the U.S. military with the aim of developing new types of bombs several times more powerful than conventional explosives. Nanoenergetic materials can st...
295. .... Its reaction with the aluminium, similar to magnesium/teflon/viton thermite, adds energy to the reaction. Of the listed compositions, that with potassium permanganate has the highest pressurization **rate**. The most common method of preparing nanoenergetic materials is by ultrasonification in quantities of less than 2g. Some research has been developed to increase production scales. Due to the very hig...
296. ...sion caps and electric matches. Compositions based on Al-BiO tend to be used. PETN may be optionally added. Aluminium powder can be added to nano explosives. Aluminium has a relatively low combustion **rate** and a high enthalpy of combustion. The products of a thermite reaction, resulting from ignition of the nano-thermitic mixture, are usually metal oxides and elemental metals. At the temperatures preva...
297. ...on in the foraging of ants: the preference for resin over twigs is more pronounced in spring than in summer, whereas in autumn the ants collect twigs and resin at equal rates. The relative collection **rate** of resin versus stones does not depend on infection with the entomopathogenic fungus "Metarhizium anisopliae" in laboratory conditions, indicating the resin collection is prophylactic rather than the...
298. ...t evaluated the effect of an adjuvant alkylating agent in breast cancer. The results indicated that the adjuvant therapy given after the initial radical mastectomy "significantly decreased recurrence **rate** in pre-menopausal women with four or more positive axillary lymph nodes." The budding theory of using additional therapies to supplement primary surgery was put into practice by Gianni Bonadonna and...
299. ...cases. Adjuvant therapy is particularly effective in certain types of cancer, including colorectal carcinoma, lung cancer, and medulloblastoma. In completely resected medulloblastoma, 5-year survival **rate** is 85% if adjuvant chemotherapy and/or craniospinal irradiation is performed, and just 10% if no adjuvant chemotherapy or craniospinal irradiation is used. Prophylactic cranial irradiation for acute...
300. ...ks to allow normal cells time to recover. This practice has led scientists to the hypothesis that the recurrence of cancer after surgery and chemo may be due to the rapidly diving cells outpacing the **rate** of chemotherapy administration. DDC tries to circumvent this issue by giving chemotherapy every 2 weeks. To lessen the side effects of chemotherapy that can be exacerbated with more closely administe...
301. ...elanoma patients who are currently free of disease, to reduce the risk of recurrence. Since then, however, some doctors have argued that interferon treatment does not prolong survival or decrease the **rate** of relapse, but only causes harmful side effects. Those claims have not been validated by scientific research. Adjuvant chemotherapy has been used in malignant melanoma, but there is little hard evid...
302. ...rd evidence to use chemotherapy in the adjuvant setting. However, melanoma is not a chemotherapy-resistant malignancy. Dacarbazine, temozolomide, and cisplatin all have a reproducible 10–20% response **rate** in metastatic melanoma.; however, these responses are often short-lived and almost never complete. Multiple studies have shown that adjuvant radiotherapy improves local recurrence rates in high-risk...
303. ...t administration more tolerable, and be provided to patients who received NAC prior to their RC. It has been known for at least 30 years that adjuvant chemotherapy increases the relapse-free survival **rate** for patients with breast cancer In 2001 after a national consensus conference, a US National Institute of Health panel concluded: "Because adjuvant polychemotherapy improves survival, it should be re...
304. ...all survival in patients with breast cancer. Commonly used combination chemotherapy regimens used include: Roughly 15% of ovarian cancers are detected at the early stage, at which the 5-year survival **rate** is 92%. A Norwegian meta-analysis of 22 randomized studies involving early-stage ovarian cancer revealed the likelihood that 8 out of 10 women treated with cisplatin after the initial surgery were ov...
305. ...gs. Vaginal rings do not protect users from sexually transmitted diseases. The only contraceptive measures that does so are latex or polyurethane condoms. The contraceptive vaginal ring has a failure **rate** of 0.3% when used as prescribed and 9% when used typically. The correlation between breast cancer and the use of vaginal rings is under investigation, but recent literature suggests that the hormones...
306. ...refers to the body's natural detoxification (cleansing) through liver metabolism and through the excretion of the measured substance through the kidneys and intestines. This concept is used when the **rate** of removal is roughly exponential. In a medical context, half-life explicitly describes the time it takes for the blood plasma concentration of a substance to halve ("plasma half-life") its steady-st...
307. ...ological half-life of water in the body. This has been used to decontaminate patients who are internally contaminated with tritiated water. The basis of this decontamination method is to increase the **rate** at which the water in the body is replaced with new water. The removal of ethanol (drinking alcohol) through oxidation by alcohol dehydrogenase in the liver from the human body is limited. Hence the...
308. ...ohol) through oxidation by alcohol dehydrogenase in the liver from the human body is limited. Hence the removal of a large concentration of alcohol from blood may follow zero-order kinetics. Also the **rate**-limiting steps for one substance may be in common with other substances. For instance, the blood alcohol concentration can be used to modify the biochemistry of methanol and ethylene glycol. In this...
309. ...ested methanol. Methanol is very toxic and causes blindness and death. A person who has ingested ethylene glycol can be treated in the same way. Half life is also relative to the subjective metabolic **rate** of the individual in question. The biological half-life of caesium in humans is between one and four months. This can be shortened by feeding the person prussian blue. The prussian blue in the digest...
310. ...organism may have the effect of increasing the burden present in one part of the organism. For instance, if a person who is contaminated with lead is given EDTA in a chelation therapy, then while the **rate** at which lead is lost from the body will be increased, the lead within the body tends to relocate into the brain where it can do the most harm. Some substances may have different half-lives in differ...
311. ...ly relation to this fact, endogenous oxytocin concentrations in the brain have been found to be as much as 1000-fold higher than peripheral levels. Half-times apply to processes where the elimination **rate** is exponential. If formula_2 is the concentration of a substance at time formula_3, its time dependence is given by where "k" is the reaction rate constant. Such a decay rate arises from a first-orde...
312. ...Half-times apply to processes where the elimination rate is exponential. If formula_2 is the concentration of a substance at time formula_3, its time dependence is given by where "k" is the reaction **rate** constant. Such a decay rate arises from a first-order reaction where the rate of elimination is proportional to the amount of the substance: The half-life for this process is Alternatively, half-life...
313. ...es where the elimination rate is exponential. If formula_2 is the concentration of a substance at time formula_3, its time dependence is given by where "k" is the reaction rate constant. Such a decay **rate** arises from a first-order reaction where the rate of elimination is proportional to the amount of the substance: The half-life for this process is Alternatively, half-life is given by where "λ" is th...
314. ...ormula_2 is the concentration of a substance at time formula_3, its time dependence is given by where "k" is the reaction rate constant. Such a decay rate arises from a first-order reaction where the **rate** of elimination is proportional to the amount of the substance: The half-life for this process is Alternatively, half-life is given by where "λ" is the slope of the terminal phase of the time–concentr...
315. ...sota). In 2021, Craig W. Lindsley (Vanderbilt University) became editor-in-chief. According to the "Journal Citation Reports", the journal has a 2022 impact factor of 7.3. Moisture vapor transmission **rate** Moisture vapor transmission rate (MVTR), also water vapor transmission rate (WVTR), is a measure of the passage of water vapor through a substance. It is a measure of the permeability for vapor barri...
316. ...(Vanderbilt University) became editor-in-chief. According to the "Journal Citation Reports", the journal has a 2022 impact factor of 7.3. Moisture vapor transmission rate Moisture vapor transmission **rate** (MVTR), also water vapor transmission rate (WVTR), is a measure of the passage of water vapor through a substance. It is a measure of the permeability for vapor barriers. There are many industries wh...
317. ...hief. According to the "Journal Citation Reports", the journal has a 2022 impact factor of 7.3. Moisture vapor transmission rate Moisture vapor transmission rate (MVTR), also water vapor transmission **rate** (WVTR), is a measure of the passage of water vapor through a substance. It is a measure of the permeability for vapor barriers. There are many industries where moisture control is critical. Moisture...
318. ...ay. In the USA, g/100in/day is also in use, which is 0.064516 (approximately 1/15) of the value of g/m/day units. Typical rates in aluminium foil laminates may be as low as 0.001 g/m/day, whereas the **rate** in fabrics can measure up to several thousand g/m/day. Often, barrier testing is conducted on a sheet of material. Calculations based on that can be useful when designing completed structures, clothi...
319. ...cution. A study covering clinical research in the 1980–1990s found that only 21.5% of drug candidates that started Phase I trials were eventually approved for marketing. During 2006–2015, the success **rate** of obtaining approval from Phase I to successful Phase III trials was under 10% on average, and 16% specifically for vaccines. The high failure rates associated with pharmaceutical development are re...
320. ...Phase I to successful Phase III trials was under 10% on average, and 16% specifically for vaccines. The high failure rates associated with pharmaceutical development are referred to as an "attrition **rate**", requiring decisions during the early stages of drug development to "kill" projects early to avoid costly failures. There are a number of studies that have been conducted to determine research and d...
321. ...ough clinical trials, the total capital expenditure for a manufacturer having a drug approved through successful Phase III trials was $2.6 billion (in 2013 dollars), an amount increasing at an annual **rate** of 8.5%. Over 2003–2013 for companies that approved 8–13 drugs, the cost per drug could rise to as high as $5.5 billion, due mainly to international geographic expansion for marketing and ongoing cos...
322. ...The most commonly used valuation methods are risk-adjusted net present value (rNPV), decision trees, real options, or comparables. The most important value drivers are the cost of capital or discount **rate** that is used, phase attributes such as duration, success rates, and costs, and the forecasted sales, including cost of goods and marketing and sales expenses. Less objective aspects like quality of t...
323. ...Drug Development covering the 1980s and 1990s found that only 21.5 percent of drugs that started Phase I trials were eventually approved for marketing. In the time period of 2006 to 2015, the success **rate** was 9.6%. The high failure rates associated with pharmaceutical development are referred to as the "attrition rate" problem. Careful decision making during drug development is essential to avoid cost...
324. ...e eventually approved for marketing. In the time period of 2006 to 2015, the success rate was 9.6%. The high failure rates associated with pharmaceutical development are referred to as the "attrition **rate**" problem. Careful decision making during drug development is essential to avoid costly failures. In many cases, intelligent programme and clinical trial design can prevent false negative results. Wel...
325. ...d policies, he has been called the 'greatest medical benefactor of humanity that Sri Lanka has hitherto produced'. Senaka Bibile was born at Kataluwa Walawwa. His father was Charles William Bibile, a **Rate** Mahatmaya or Chief Native Feudal Official of Wellassa, his mother Sylvia Jayawardena of Kataluwa Walauwa, the manor house of the Obeyesekere - Jayawardena family. The Bibile family claimed descent fr...
326. ..., DMT1 and ferroportin in response to iron deficiency anemia. Iron absorption from diet is enhanced in the presence of vitamin C and diminished by excess calcium, zinc, or manganese. The human body's **rate** of iron absorption appears to respond to a variety of interdependent factors, including total iron stores, the extent to which the bone marrow is producing new red blood cells, the concentration of h...
327. ...mmation. p53 regulated LIF has been shown to facilitate implantation in the mouse model and possibly in humans. It has been suggested that recombinant human LIF might help to improve the implantation **rate** in women with unexplained infertility. LIF binds to the specific LIF receptor (LIFR-α) which forms a heterodimer with a specific subunit common to all members of that family of receptors, the GP130 s...
328. ...sychotics, and stimulants. Adding lithium may be effective for people taking some types of antidepressants including SSRIs or SNRIs. Lithium augmentation therapy was associated with a 41.2% remission **rate** of unipolar depression compared to 14.4% with placebo. Liothyronine (synthetic T) is a type of thyroid hormone and has been associated with improvement in mood and depression symptoms. Benzodiazepine...
329. ...ous chemicals as required to control the water quality. In a power station treatment chemicals are injected or fed to boiler and also to feed and make up water under pressure, but in small dosages or **rate** of injection. The feeding at all places is done by means of small capacity dosing pumps specially designed for the duty demanded. In building services the water quality of various pumped fluid system...
330. ...peared before the Senate Appropriations Committee to testify on the danger of and responses to the pandemic. Louisiana Republican senator John Kennedy asked both Azar and Chad Wolf about the fatality **rate** in victims. Azar said that the fatality rate of seasonal influenza was about 0.1%, and that the fatality rate of COVID-19 was estimated at between 1% and 2%; however, Azar added that the latter figur...
331. ...ttee to testify on the danger of and responses to the pandemic. Louisiana Republican senator John Kennedy asked both Azar and Chad Wolf about the fatality rate in victims. Azar said that the fatality **rate** of seasonal influenza was about 0.1%, and that the fatality rate of COVID-19 was estimated at between 1% and 2%; however, Azar added that the latter figure was uncertain because there might be many m...
332. ...ouisiana Republican senator John Kennedy asked both Azar and Chad Wolf about the fatality rate in victims. Azar said that the fatality rate of seasonal influenza was about 0.1%, and that the fatality **rate** of COVID-19 was estimated at between 1% and 2%; however, Azar added that the latter figure was uncertain because there might be many mild coronavirus cases yet unreported. Chad Wolf said that the fat...
333. ...VID-19 was estimated at between 1% and 2%; however, Azar added that the latter figure was uncertain because there might be many mild coronavirus cases yet unreported. Chad Wolf said that the fatality **rate** for COVID-19 was between 1.5% and 2%, and said incorrectly that the fatality rate for influenza over the last 10 years in America was similar (about 2%). Kennedy was unhappy with the briefing, saying...
334. ...ure was uncertain because there might be many mild coronavirus cases yet unreported. Chad Wolf said that the fatality rate for COVID-19 was between 1.5% and 2%, and said incorrectly that the fatality **rate** for influenza over the last 10 years in America was similar (about 2%). Kennedy was unhappy with the briefing, saying afterward, "I thought a lot of the briefing was bullshit ... They would answer th...
335. ...CorA is the major uptake system for Mg in bacteria. The authors also showed for the first time that the changes in the electric potential (ΔΨ) across the plasma membrane of the cell affected both the **rate** of Mg uptake and the free Mg content of the cell; depolarisation suppressed transport, while hyperpolarisation increased transport. The kinetics of transport were defined only by the rate of change o...
336. ...ed both the rate of Mg uptake and the free Mg content of the cell; depolarisation suppressed transport, while hyperpolarisation increased transport. The kinetics of transport were defined only by the **rate** of change of free Mg inside the cells (250 μM s). Because no quantification of the amount of CorA protein in the membrane was made, this value cannot be compared with other experiments on Mg transpor...
337. ...tion and immunodetection and Lpe10p to the mitochondria. Mitochondria lacking Mrs2p do not show a fast Mg uptake, only a slow ‘leak’, and overaccumulation of Mrs2p leads to an increase in the initial **rate** of uptake. Additionally, CorA, when fused to the mitochondrial leader sequence of Mrs2p, can partially complement the mitochondrial defect conferred by the loss of either Mrs2p or Lpe10p. Hence, Mrs2...
338. ...No data on the kinetics of the transport was presented. The AtMRS2-11 gene was analysed in yeast (in the alr1 alr2 strain), where it was shown that expression of the gene significantly increased the **rate** of Mg uptake into starved cells over the control, as measured using flame atomic absorption spectroscopy of total cellular Mg content. However, Alr1p was shown to be significantly more effective at t...
339. ...composition have been shown to quantitatively obey LSW theory after initial stages of growth. Wagner derived that when attachment and detachment of molecules is slower than diffusion, then the growth **rate** becomes where is the reaction rate constant of attachment with units of length per time. Since the average radius is usually something that can be measured in experiments, it is fairly easy to tell i...
340. ...titatively obey LSW theory after initial stages of growth. Wagner derived that when attachment and detachment of molecules is slower than diffusion, then the growth rate becomes where is the reaction **rate** constant of attachment with units of length per time. Since the average radius is usually something that can be measured in experiments, it is fairly easy to tell if a system is obeying the slow-diff...
341. ...s the diffusion of monomers (i.e. individual molecules or atoms) from smaller droplets to larger droplets due to greater solubility of the single monomer molecules in the larger monomer droplets. The **rate** of this diffusion process is linked to the solubility of the monomer in the continuous (water) phase of the emulsion. This can lead to the destabilization of emulsions (for example, by creaming and s...
342. ...w the solidus temperature. It is often ascribed as a process in the formation of orthoclase megacrysts, as an alternative to the physical processes governing crystal growth from nucleation and growth **rate** thermochemical limitations. In aqueous solution chemistry and precipitates ageing, the term refers to the growth of larger crystals from those of smaller size which have a higher solubility than the...
343. ...in in the different organs or tissues for a varying amount of time. The distribution of a drug between tissues is dependent on vascular permeability, regional blood flow, cardiac output and perfusion **rate** of the tissue and the ability of the drug to bind tissue and plasma proteins and its lipid solubility. pH partition plays a major role as well. The drug is easily distributed in highly perfused organ...
344. ...ing. There are many factors that affect a drug's distribution throughout an organism, but Pascuzzo considers that the most important ones are the following: an organism's physical volume, the removal **rate** and the degree to which a drug binds with plasma proteins and / or tissues. This concept is related to multi-compartmentalization. Any drugs within an organism will act as a solute and the organism's...
345. ...cessary to reach a certain concentration of a drug that is known to be optimal in order for it to have the required effects on the organism (as occurs if a patient is to be scanned). A drug's removal **rate** will be determined by the proportion of the drug that is removed from circulation by each organ once the drug has been delivered to the organ by the circulating blood supply.  This new concept builds...
346. ..."sequestered", which decreases its presence in tissues by up to 50%. This is important when considering pharmacological interactions: the tissue concentration of a drug with a plasma protein binding **rate** of less than 90% is not going to significantly increase if that drug is displaced from its union with a protein by another substance. On the other hand, at binding rates of greater than 95% small cha...
347. ...see that clinical conditions that modify the levels of plasma proteins (for example, hypoalbuminemias brought on by renal dysfunction) may affect the effect and toxicity of a drug that has a binding **rate** with plasma proteins of above 90%. Highly lipid-soluble drugs given by intravenous or inhalation methods are initially distributed to organs with high blood flow. Later, less vascular but more bulky...
348. ...of the new fibers and tendocytes with the natural alignment found in uninjured tendons. Stem cell treatment not only allowed more horses to return to full duty and also greatly reduced the re-injury **rate** over a three-year period. The use of embryonic stem cells has also been applied to tendon repair. The embryonic stem cells were shown to have a better survival rate in the tendon as well as better mi...
349. ...also greatly reduced the re-injury rate over a three-year period. The use of embryonic stem cells has also been applied to tendon repair. The embryonic stem cells were shown to have a better survival **rate** in the tendon as well as better migrating capabilities to reach all areas of damaged tendon. The overall repair quality was also higher, with better tendon architecture and collagen formed. There was...
350. ...ed surfaces. At pzc, the colloidal system exhibits zero zeta potential (that is, the particles remain stationary in an electric field), minimum stability (exhibits maximum coagulation or flocculation **rate**), maximum solubility of the solid phase, maximum viscosity of the dispersion, and other peculiarities.  In the field of environmental science, adsorption is involved in many techniques that can elimi...
351. ...and silica occurs during settling through the water column. The accumulation of biogenic silica in the seabed represents 12% of the surface production, whereas the seabed organic-carbon accumulation **rate** accounts for solely <0.5% of the surface production. As a result, polar sediments account for most of the ocean's biogenic silica accumulation, but only a small amount of the sedimentary organic-carb...
352. ...on rates have been observed in the extensive deep-sea deposits of the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans, rendering these oceans insignificant for the global marine silica budget. The mean daily BSi **rate** strongly depends on the region: Likewise, the integrated annual BSi production strongly depends on the region: BSi production is controlled by: BSi dissolution is controlled by: BSi preservation is m...
353. ...ate. Initially, particle doublets A will form from singlets A according to the scheme formula_1 In the early stage of the aggregation process, the suspension mainly contains individual particles. The **rate** of this phenomenon is characterized by the aggregation rate coefficient . Since doublet formation is a second order rate process, the units of this coefficients are ms since particle concentrations a...
354. ...A according to the scheme formula_1 In the early stage of the aggregation process, the suspension mainly contains individual particles. The rate of this phenomenon is characterized by the aggregation **rate** coefficient . Since doublet formation is a second order rate process, the units of this coefficients are ms since particle concentrations are expressed as particle number per unit volume (m). Since a...
355. ...aggregation process, the suspension mainly contains individual particles. The rate of this phenomenon is characterized by the aggregation rate coefficient . Since doublet formation is a second order **rate** process, the units of this coefficients are ms since particle concentrations are expressed as particle number per unit volume (m). Since absolute aggregation rates are difficult to measure, one often...
356. ...s particle number per unit volume (m). Since absolute aggregation rates are difficult to measure, one often refers to the dimensionless stability ratio , defined as formula_2 where is the aggregation **rate** coefficient in the fast regime, and the coefficient at the conditions of interest. The stability ratio is close to unity in the fast regime, increases in the slow regime, and becomes very large when...
357. ...e respective aggregation coefficients , , and . For example, when particles A and B bear positive and negative charge, respectively, the homoaggregation rates may be slow, while the heteroaggregation **rate** is fast. In contrast to homoaggregation, the heteroaggregation rate accelerates with decreasing salt concentration. Clusters formed at later stages of such heteroaggregation processes are even more r...
358. ...rticles A and B bear positive and negative charge, respectively, the homoaggregation rates may be slow, while the heteroaggregation rate is fast. In contrast to homoaggregation, the heteroaggregation **rate** accelerates with decreasing salt concentration. Clusters formed at later stages of such heteroaggregation processes are even more ramified that those obtained during DLCA ("d" ≈ 1.4). An important sp...
359. ...egular spectrophotometer in the visible region. As aggregation proceeds, the medium becomes more turbid, and its absorbance increases. The increase of the absorbance can be related to the aggregation **rate** constant "k" and the stability ratio can be estimated from such measurements. The advantage of this technique is its simplicity. Light scattering. These techniques are based on probing the scattered...
360. ...while dynamic light scattering the variation in the apparent hydrodynamic radius. At early-stages of aggregation, the variation of each of these quantities is directly proportional to the aggregation **rate** constant "k". At later stages, one can obtain information on the clusters formed (e.g., fractal dimension). Light scattering works well for a wide range of particle sizes. Multiple scattering effects...
361. ...riptions include the cost of the medication, A US nationwide survey of 1,010 adults in 2001 found that 22% chose not to fill prescriptions because of the price, which is similar to the 20–30% overall **rate** of unfilled prescriptions. Other factors are doubting the need for medication, or preference for self-care measures other than medication. Convenience, side effects and lack of demonstrated benefit a...
362. ...ures other than medication. Convenience, side effects and lack of demonstrated benefit are also factors. Prescription medical claims records can be used to estimate medication adherence based on fill **rate**. Patients can be routinely defined as being 'Adherent Patients' if the amount of medication furnished is at least 80% based on days' supply of medication divided by the number of days patient should...
363. ...lic antidepressant medications and most antipsychotic drugs. However, studies have found that one-third of Asian Americans and African Americans have a genetic alteration that decreases the metabolic **rate** of the IID6 isoenzyme, leading to a greater risk of side effects and toxicity. The CYP2D6 enzyme, important for the way in which the liver clears many drugs from the body, varies greatly between indi...
364. ...ular fields in which they distinguished themselves: Nanoparticle tracking analysis Nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) is a method for visualizing and analyzing particles in liquids that relates the **rate** of Brownian motion to particle size. The rate of movement is related only to the viscosity and temperature of the liquid; it is not influenced by particle density or refractive index. NTA allows the...
365. ...lves: Nanoparticle tracking analysis Nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) is a method for visualizing and analyzing particles in liquids that relates the rate of Brownian motion to particle size. The **rate** of movement is related only to the viscosity and temperature of the liquid; it is not influenced by particle density or refractive index. NTA allows the determination of a size distribution profile o...
366. ...motion. The light scattered by the particles is captured using a CCD or EMCCD camera over multiple frames. Computer software is then used to track the motion of each particle from frame to frame. The **rate** of particle movement is related to a sphere equivalent hydrodynamic radius as calculated through the Stokes–Einstein equation. The technique calculates particle size on a particle-by particle basis,...
367. ...the prescribed schedule, users of steroid hormone methods experience pregnancy rates of less than 1% per year. Perfect-use pregnancy rates for most hormonal contraceptives are usually around the 0.3% **rate** or less. Currently available methods can only be used by women; the development of a male hormonal contraceptive is an active research area. There are two main types of hormonal contraceptive formula...
368. ...tes of less than 1% per year. The lowest failure rates are seen with the implants Jadelle and Implanon, at 0.05% per year. According to "Contraceptive Technology", none of these methods has a failure **rate** greater than 0.3% per year. The SERM ormeloxifene is less effective than the steroid hormone methods; studies have found a perfect-use failure rate near 2% per year. Long-acting methods such as the i...
369. ...ve Technology", none of these methods has a failure rate greater than 0.3% per year. The SERM ormeloxifene is less effective than the steroid hormone methods; studies have found a perfect-use failure **rate** near 2% per year. Long-acting methods such as the implant and the IUS are user-independent methods. For user-independent methods, the "typical" or "actual-use" failure rates are the same as the metho...
370. ...Methods that require regular action by the user—such as taking a pill every day—have typical failure rates higher than perfect-use failure rates. "Contraceptive Technology" reports a typical failure **rate** of 3% per year for the injection Depo-Provera, and 8% per year for most other user-dependent hormonal methods. While no large studies have been done, it is hoped that newer methods which require less...
371. ...o thin and atrophic during an ovulatory cycle, this could theoretically interfere with implantation of a blastocyst (embryo). Ormeloxifene does not affect ovulation. It has been shown to increase the **rate** of blastocyst development and to increase the speed at which the blastocyst is moved from the fallopian tubes into the uterus. Ormeloxifene also suppresses proliferation and decidualization of the en...
372. ...is the study of drugs' effects on our body and their mechanisms. Pharmacogenetics is defined as the study of inherited genes causing different drug metabolisms that vary from each other, such as the **rate** of metabolism and metabolites. Pharmacogenomics is defined as the study of associating the drug response with one's gene. Both terms are similar in nature, so they are used interchangeably. Multiple...
373. ...icillin spread, he had to deal with a large volume of requests for the drug. Supplies for civilian use were initially small, and penicillin was initially provided only for cases with a high mortality **rate** that did not respond to other forms of treatment. In January 1943, he reported to OSRD on the results of the treatment of the first 100 patients; by August, 500 patients had been treated. Military re...
374. ...oming infected. Gas gangrene had killed 150 out of every 1,000 casualties in the First World War, but the instance of this disease now disappeared almost completely. Open fractures now had a recovery **rate** of better than 94 per cent, and recovery from burns of one-fifth of the body or less was 100 per cent. The chemical structure of penicillin was first suggested by Abraham in 1942. Dorothy Hodgkin det...
375. ...such as cysteine and methionine, which are used to build proteins and other important molecules.  Sulfate uptake first occurs in roots that have a high affinity for sulfur. The maximal sulfate uptake **rate** is generally already reached at sulfate levels of 0.1 mM and lower. The uptake of sulfate by the roots and its transport to the shoot is strictly controlled and it appears to be one of the primary re...
376. ...sumed to be one of the primary regulation points in the sulfate reduction, since the activity of APS reductase is the lowest of the enzymes of the sulfate reduction pathway and it has a fast turnover **rate**. Sulfite is with high affinity reduced by sulfite reductase to sulfide with ferredoxin as a reductant. The remaining sulfate in plant tissue is transferred into the vacuole. The remobilization and re...
377. ...Excessive sulfate is transferred into the vacuole; enhanced foliar sulfate levels are characteristic for exposed plants. The foliar uptake of hydrogen sulfide appears to be directly dependent on the **rate** of its metabolism into cysteine and subsequently into other sulfur compounds. There is strong evidence that O-acetyl-serine (thiol)lyase is directly responsible for the active fixation of atmospheric...
378. ...epresents time after tracer injection, formula_3 is the amount of tracer in region of interest, formula_4 is the concentration of tracer in plasma or blood, formula_5 is the clearance determining the **rate** of entry into the peripheral (irreversible) compartment, and formula_6 is the distribution volume of the tracer in the central compartment. The first term of the right-hand side represents tracer in...
379. ...materials such as platinum-chromium or nickel-titanium. The stent is often coated with a polymer to control the release of drugs. The role of polymers in drug delivery is crucial as they regulate the **rate** at which the drug is released into the surrounding tissue. There are also polymer-free stents where the drug is directly coated on the stent or contained in reservoirs within the stent. The design of...
380. ...eversible. Reversible inhibitors are generally categorized into four types, as introduced by Cleland in 1963. They are classified according to the effect of the inhibitor on the "V" (maximum reaction **rate** catalysed by the enzyme) and "K" (the concentration of substrate resulting in half maximal enzyme activity) as the concentration of the enzyme's substrate is varied. In competitive inhibition the sub...
381. ...iated with ligand receptor binding. To demonstrate the relationship the following rearrangement can be made: This rearrangement demonstrates that similar to the Michaelis–Menten equation, the maximal **rate** of reaction depends on the proportion of the enzyme population interacting with its substrate. fraction of the enzyme population bound by substrate fraction of the enzyme population bound by inhibito...
382. ...onditions, traditional Michaelis–Menten kinetics give a false value for "K", which is time–dependent. The true value of "K" can be obtained through more complex analysis of the on ("k") and off ("k") **rate** constants for inhibitor association with kinetics similar to irreversible inhibition. Multi-substrate analogue inhibitors are high affinity selective inhibitors that can be prepared for enzymes that...
383. ...tion of irreversible inhibitor will be different depending on how long the inhibitor is pre-incubated with the enzyme. Instead, "k"/["I"] values are used, where "k" is the observed pseudo-first order **rate** of inactivation (obtained by plotting the log of % activity versus time) and ["I"] is the concentration of inhibitor. The "k"/["I"] parameter is valid as long as the inhibitor does not saturate bindi...
384. ...ersus time) and ["I"] is the concentration of inhibitor. The "k"/["I"] parameter is valid as long as the inhibitor does not saturate binding with the enzyme (in which case "k" = "k") where "k" is the **rate** of inactivation. Irreversible inhibitors first form a reversible non-covalent complex with the enzyme (EI or ESI). Subsequently, a chemical reaction occurs between the enzyme and inhibitor to produce...
385. ...ith the enzyme (EI or ESI). Subsequently, a chemical reaction occurs between the enzyme and inhibitor to produce the covalently modified "dead-end complex" EI* (an irreversible covalent complex). The **rate** at which EI* is formed is called the inactivation rate or "k". Since formation of EI may compete with ES, binding of irreversible inhibitors can be prevented by competition either with substrate or w...
386. ...action occurs between the enzyme and inhibitor to produce the covalently modified "dead-end complex" EI* (an irreversible covalent complex). The rate at which EI* is formed is called the inactivation **rate** or "k". Since formation of EI may compete with ES, binding of irreversible inhibitors can be prevented by competition either with substrate or with a second, reversible inhibitor. This protection eff...
387. ...enzyme with inhibitor and assaying the amount of activity remaining over time. The activity will be decreased in a time-dependent manner, usually following exponential decay. Fitting these data to a **rate** equation gives the rate of inactivation at this concentration of inhibitor. This is done at several different concentrations of inhibitor. If a reversible EI complex is involved the inactivation rate...
388. ...nd assaying the amount of activity remaining over time. The activity will be decreased in a time-dependent manner, usually following exponential decay. Fitting these data to a rate equation gives the **rate** of inactivation at this concentration of inhibitor. This is done at several different concentrations of inhibitor. If a reversible EI complex is involved the inactivation rate will be saturable and f...
389. ...rate equation gives the rate of inactivation at this concentration of inhibitor. This is done at several different concentrations of inhibitor. If a reversible EI complex is involved the inactivation **rate** will be saturable and fitting this curve will give "k" and "K". Another method that is widely used in these analyses is mass spectrometry. Here, accurate measurement of the mass of the unmodified nat...
390. ...e. A key step for the regulation of glycolysis is an early reaction in the pathway catalysed by phosphofructokinase1 (PFK1). When ATP levels rise, ATP binds an allosteric site in PFK1 to decrease the **rate** of the enzyme reaction; glycolysis is inhibited and ATP production falls. This negative feedback control helps maintain a steady concentration of ATP in the cell. However, metabolic pathways are not...
391. ...sitive changes in their half-life. Vasoactivity A vasoactive substance is an endogenous agent or pharmaceutical drug that has the effect of either increasing or decreasing blood pressure and/or heart **rate** through its vasoactivity, that is, vascular activity (effect on blood vessels). By adjusting vascular compliance and vascular resistance, typically through vasodilation and vasoconstriction, it helps...
392. ...n, histamine, nitric oxide, and vasoactive intestinal peptide are important endogenous vasoactive substances. Vasoactive drug therapy is typically used when a patient has the blood pressure and heart **rate** monitored constantly. The dosage is typically titrated (adjusted up or down) to achieve a desired effect or range of values as determined by competent clinicians. Vasoactive drugs are typically admin...
393. ...th absorbed through carrier-mediated transport. For passive transfer to occur, the drug has to diffuse through the lipid cell membrane of the epithelial cells lining the inside of the intestines. The **rate** at which this happens is largely determined by two factors: Ionization and lipid solubility. Factors influencing gastrointestinal absorption: Drugs given by enteral administration may be subjected to...
394. ...ror of misclassification while repeating each step until no sensible splits can be found. However, recursive partitioning can have poor prediction ability potentially creating fine models at the same **rate**. Ligand can bind into an active site within a protein by using a docking search algorithm, and scoring function in order to identify the most likely cause for an individual ligand while assigning a p...
395. ...ening as a cell biological tool, methods are required that permit systematic biochemical target identification if these molecules are to be of broad use. Target identification has been defined as the **rate** limiting step in chemical genetics/high-content screening. High-content screening technology is mainly based on automated digital microscopy and flow cytometry, in combination with IT-systems for the...
396. ...on filled from drugs sourced not from Canada but Caribbean nations or from Eastern Europe. The Canadian online pharmacy that sells the drugs offers them at Canadian prices but buys at a still cheaper **rate** from third parties overseas; this has led to problems with prescriptions being filled with counterfeit drugs. Some pharmacists have left the business because of the ethical issues involved. In 2014,...
397. ...n methylene chloride. 10mL of NaCl was added. Mixture was stirred continuously. (ii) Sample was naturally air dried at room temperature. (iii) Sample was carbonized at 600 °C for 2 hours. The heating **rate** was 2 °C per minute. (iv) Carbonized structure is washed in 1M HCl to remove excess CaCO nanoparticles.  Carbon Nanofoams have been shown to have great application as solar steam generators. They pos...
398. ...bility, low density, and low thermal conductivity, all factors important to solar generators. In experiments done, carbon nanofoams showed superior solar photo-thermal performance with an evaporation **rate** of 1.68 kg m−2 h−1 achieved under 1 sun irradiation. Additionally, carbon nanofoams have also been used to create extremely efficient aerosol filters. Using cellulose nanofibers collected from recycl...
399. ...ormula_5. formula_21: Total density of receptors = formula_22. In PET imaging, the amount of radioligand is usually very small (L « Ki, see above), thus formula_23 formula_24 and formula_25: Transfer **rate** constants from the two tissue compartment model. NEW NOTATIONAL CONVENTIONS: In Innis et al., a large group of researchers who are active in this field agreed to a consensus nomenclature for these te...
400. ...olecular Medicine Ireland which was established in 2008. Sialogogue A sialogogue (also spelled sialagogue, ptysmagogue or ptyalagogue) is a substance, especially a medication, that increases the flow **rate** of saliva. The definition focuses on substances that promote production or secretion of saliva (proximal causation) rather than any food that is mouthwatering (distal causation that triggers proximal...
401. ...lectrical double layer. The simplest approach is to treat the first-order autocorrelation function as a single exponential decay. This is appropriate for a monodisperse population. where is the decay **rate**. The translational diffusion coefficient may be derived at a single angle or at a range of angles depending on the wave vector . with where is the incident laser wavelength, is the solvent refractive...
402. ...on methods is the cumulant method, from which in addition to the sum of the exponentials above, more information can be derived about the variance of the system as follows: where is the average decay **rate** and is the second order polydispersity index (or an indication of the variance). A third-order polydispersity index may also be derived but this is necessary only if the particles of the system are h...
403. ...ticals. Passing through the esophagus to the stomach, the contents of the capsule or tablet are absorbed by the GI tract. The absorbed pharmaceutical is then passed through the liver and kidneys. The **rate** of dissolution is a key target for controlling the duration of a drug's effect, and as such, several dosage forms that contain the same active ingredient may be available, differing only in the rate...
404. ...rate of dissolution is a key target for controlling the duration of a drug's effect, and as such, several dosage forms that contain the same active ingredient may be available, differing only in the **rate** of dissolution. If a drug is supplied in a form that is not readily dissolved, it may be released gradually and act for longer. Having a longer duration of action may improve compliance since the med...
405. ...dosage forms may maintain concentrations within an acceptable therapeutic range over a longer period, whereas quick-release dosage forms may have sharper peaks and troughs in serum concentration. The **rate** of dissolution is described by the Noyes–Whitney equation as shown below: Where: As can be inferred from the Noyes–Whitney equation, the rate of dissolution may be modified primarily by altering the...
406. ...ave sharper peaks and troughs in serum concentration. The rate of dissolution is described by the Noyes–Whitney equation as shown below: Where: As can be inferred from the Noyes–Whitney equation, the **rate** of dissolution may be modified primarily by altering the surface area of the solid by altering the particle size (e.g., with micronization). For many drugs, reducing the particle size reduces the dos...
407. ...zation). For many drugs, reducing the particle size reduces the dose needed to achieve the same therapeutic effect. The particle size reduction increases the specific surface area and the dissolution **rate** and does not affect solubility. The rate of dissolution may also be altered by choosing a suitable polymorph of a compound. Different polymorphs have different solubility and dissolution rate charact...
408. ...ticle size reduces the dose needed to achieve the same therapeutic effect. The particle size reduction increases the specific surface area and the dissolution rate and does not affect solubility. The **rate** of dissolution may also be altered by choosing a suitable polymorph of a compound. Different polymorphs have different solubility and dissolution rate characteristics. Specifically, crystalline forms...
409. ...olution rate and does not affect solubility. The rate of dissolution may also be altered by choosing a suitable polymorph of a compound. Different polymorphs have different solubility and dissolution **rate** characteristics. Specifically, crystalline forms dissolve slower than amorphous forms since they require more energy to leave the lattice during dissolution. The stablest crystalline polymorph has th...
410. ...cifically, crystalline forms dissolve slower than amorphous forms since they require more energy to leave the lattice during dissolution. The stablest crystalline polymorph has the lowest dissolution **rate**. Dissolution also differs between anhydrous and hydrous forms of a drug. Anhydrous forms often dissolve faster but sometimes are less soluble. Esterification is also used to control solubility. For e...
411. .... Later, esterases in the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) wall and blood hydrolyze these esters to release the parent drug. Coatings on a tablet or pellet may act as barriers to reducing the dissolution **rate**. Coatings may also be used to control where dissolution takes place. For example, enteric coatings only dissolve in the basic environment of the intestines. Drugs held in solution do not need to be d...
412. ...and the water provides a mild environment that is compatible with the human body. Moreover, nanoemulsions that carry drugs allow the drugs to crystallize in a controlled size with a good dissolution **rate**. Finally, in the food industry, miniemulsions can not only be loaded with water-insoluble nutrients, such as beta-carotene and curcumin, but also improve the nutrients' digestibility. Miniemulsions a...
413. ...therapy is another area for investigation in combination with sonophoresis. Since there exists a need to enhance gene transfer into cells, sonophoresis has the ability to achieve higher transfection **rate** through acoustic cavitation. Additionally, there is the advancement of using microbubbles with a contrast agent to diagnostically image the brain, as LFS and cavitation allows for disruption of the b...
414. ...s, and AC electric fields. The AC electric field gives rise to attractive forces between water droplets and increases the probability of coalescence at contact. According to Stokes' law, the settling **rate** increases proportionally with the square of the drop diameter. By promoting coalescence of small water droplets, the settling rate can be greatly increased. The water content is normally reduced to l...
415. ...ty of coalescence at contact. According to Stokes' law, the settling rate increases proportionally with the square of the drop diameter. By promoting coalescence of small water droplets, the settling **rate** can be greatly increased. The water content is normally reduced to less than 0.5 vol% if this is the final treatment stage before the crude oil is exported. Typical electrostatic coalescers are large...
416. ...ay choose to prescribe a compounded medication for reasons such as In hospitals, pharmacists and pharmacy technicians often make compounded sterile preparations (CSPs) using manual methods. The error **rate** for manually compounded sterile IV products is high. The Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP) has expressed concern with manual methods, particularly the error-prone nature of the syringe p...
417. ...le polymer) that would expand as it absorbed water, which then pushed the drug layer (which incorporates a viscous polymer for suspension of poorly soluble drugs) out of the exit hole at a controlled **rate**. Osmotic agents such as sodium chloride, potassium chloride, or xylitol are added to both the drug and push layers to increase the osmotic pressure. The initial design developed in 1982 by ALZA resea...
418. ...ed States Department of Health and Human Services began mailing rebate checks in 2010. Starting in 2011 until 2020, the coinsurance paid for prescriptions while in the coverage gap will decrease at a **rate** of 7% annually until beneficiaries will pay no more than 25% of the drug cost for their generic and brand name prescription purchases. For instance, a 50% mark down off brand-name medications finance...
419. ...acturer and a 7% markdown off generic drugs by the government was introduced in 2011 for patients in the doughnut hole. These reductions on generic drug costs will continue to incrementally rise at a **rate** of 7% until 2019. The following year in 2020, an extra cost reduction will be imposed at 12%, equating to a total of 75% of the generic drug cost covered. Similarly, for brand name drugs, the governm...
420. ...year in 2020, an extra cost reduction will be imposed at 12%, equating to a total of 75% of the generic drug cost covered. Similarly, for brand name drugs, the government will provide a subsidy at a **rate** of 2.5% beginning in 2013 and escalating to 25% in 2020. Thus, by 2020, Medicare Part D patients will only be responsible for paying 25% of the cost of covered generic and brand name prescription med...
421. ...also the primary contributor to the smooth and creamy mouth feel of most ODTs. Lyophilized ODT formulations may use proprietary technologies but can produce a tablet that has a faster disintegration **rate**, for example the Zydis ODT typically dissolves in the mouth in less than 5 seconds without water and Lyophilized Freeze drying tablets - ODT typically dissolves in the mouth in few seconds depending...
422. ...administration. Like capsules, tablets, and pills etc. Oral drugs are normally taken as tablets or capsules. The drug (active substance) itself needs to be soluble in aqueous solution at a controlled **rate**. Such factors as particle size and crystal form can significantly affect dissolution. Fast dissolution is not always ideal. For example, slow dissolution rates can prolong the duration of action or a...
423. ...et. The generators, colloquially known as moly cows, are devices designed to provide radiation shielding for transport and to minimize the extraction work done at the medical facility. A typical dose **rate** at 1 metre from the Tc generator is 20-50 μSv/h during transport. These generators' output declines with time and must be replaced weekly, since the half-life of Mo is still only 66 hours. Molybdenum...
424. ...Bristol-Myers Squibb) are used. Following this, myocardial stress is induced, either by exercise or pharmacologically with adenosine, dobutamine or dipyridamole(Persantine), which increase the heart **rate** or by regadenoson(Lexiscan), a vasodilator. (Aminophylline can be used to reverse the effects of dipyridamole and regadenoson). Scanning may then be performed with a conventional gamma camera, or wit...
425. ...ferentiate the different causal pathologies of dementia. When used with the 3-D SPECT technique, they compete with brain FDG-PET scans and fMRI brain scans as techniques to map the regional metabolic **rate** of brain tissue. The radioactive properties of Tc can be used to identify the predominant lymph nodes draining a cancer, such as breast cancer or malignant melanoma. This is usually performed at the...
426. ...nce, the 10 highest-grossing drugs in the US may help only 4-25% of people. Often, the activity of a drug depends on the genotype of a patient. For example, Erbitux (cetuximab) increases the survival **rate** of colorectal cancer patients if they carry a particular mutation in the EGFR gene. Some drugs are specifically approved for certain genotypes. Vemurafenib is such a case which is used for melanoma p...
427. ...ed-release [ER, XR, XL] dosage) or to a specific target in the body (targeted-release dosage). Sustained-release dosage forms are dosage forms designed to release (liberate) a drug at a predetermined **rate** in order to maintain a constant drug concentration for a specific period of time with minimum side effects. This can be achieved through a variety of formulations, including liposomes and drug-polyme...
428. ..." rather than "sustained". Extended-release dosage consists of either sustained-release (SR) or controlled-release (CR) dosage. SR maintains drug release over a sustained period but not at a constant **rate**. CR maintains drug release over a sustained period at a nearly constant rate. Sometimes these and other terms are treated as synonyms, but the United States Food and Drug Administration has in fact d...
429. ...ed-release (SR) or controlled-release (CR) dosage. SR maintains drug release over a sustained period but not at a constant rate. CR maintains drug release over a sustained period at a nearly constant **rate**. Sometimes these and other terms are treated as synonyms, but the United States Food and Drug Administration has in fact defined most of these as different concepts. Sometimes the term "depot tablet"...
430. ...with multiple formulations, putting the meaning in parentheses is advisable. A few other abbreviations are similar to these (in that they may serve as suffixes) but refer to dose rather than release **rate**. They include "ES" and "XS" (Extra Strength). Today, most time-release drugs are formulated so that the active ingredient is embedded in a matrix of insoluble substance(s) (various: some acrylics, ev...
431. ...that is made to be released over time, the objective is to stay within the therapeutic range as long as needed. There are many different methods used to obtain a sustained release. Diffusion systems' **rate** release is dependent on the rate at which the drug dissolves through a barrier which is usually a type of polymer. Diffusion systems can be broken into two subcategories, reservoir devices and matrix...
432. ...time, the objective is to stay within the therapeutic range as long as needed. There are many different methods used to obtain a sustained release. Diffusion systems' rate release is dependent on the **rate** at which the drug dissolves through a barrier which is usually a type of polymer. Diffusion systems can be broken into two subcategories, reservoir devices and matrix devices. Dissolution systems mus...
433. ...olving coat, it will eventually release the drug. Instead of diffusion, the drug release depends on the solubility and thickness of the coating. Because of this mechanism, the dissolution will be the **rate** limiting factor for drug release. Dissolution systems can be broken down to subcategories called reservoir devices and matrix devices. Osmotic controlled-release oral delivery systems (OROS) have the...
434. ...g is attached to the resin and is released when an appropriate interaction of ions and ion exchange groups occur. The area and length of the drug release and number of cross-link polymers dictate the **rate** at which the drug is released, determining the SR effect. A floating system is a system where it floats on gastric fluids due to low density. The density of the gastric fluids is about 1 g/mL; thus,...
435. ...ty of the gastric fluids is about 1 g/mL; thus, the drug/tablet administered must have a smaller density. The buoyancy will allow the system to float to the top of the stomach and release at a slower **rate** without worry of excreting it. This system requires that there are enough gastric fluids present as well as food. Many types of forms of drugs use this method such as powders, capsules, and tablets....
436. ...tribution of drugs, that can be breached with greater or lesser ease depending on the drug's characteristics. If these relative conditions for the different tissue types are considered along with the **rate** of elimination, the organism can be considered to be acting like two compartments: one that we can call the "central compartment" that has a more rapid distribution, comprising organs and systems wit...
437. ...in detail in their respective titled articles, can be mathematically quantified and integrated to obtain an overall mathematical equation: where Q is the drug's purity. where formula_11 is the drug's **rate** of administration and formula_12 is the rate at which the absorbed drug reaches the circulatory system. Finally, using the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation, and knowing the drug's formula_13 (pH at whi...
438. ..., can be mathematically quantified and integrated to obtain an overall mathematical equation: where Q is the drug's purity. where formula_11 is the drug's rate of administration and formula_12 is the **rate** at which the absorbed drug reaches the circulatory system. Finally, using the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation, and knowing the drug's formula_13 (pH at which there is an equilibrium between its ionize...
439. ...wed to creditors and investors of the Ottawa Senators franchise. Bryden agreed to pay creditors a total of $600,000 on the debt, which was induced by high player salaries and an unfavourable exchange **rate** against the US dollar. In 2005, Bryden was appointed as the new chairman of cancer drug developer PharmaGap, Inc. Until 2014, he was President and CEO of Plasco Energy Group, an Ottawa firm developin...
440. ...ve been reported to increase the risk of autoimmune disease in mice. Squalene has caused rheumatoid arthritis in rats already prone to arthritis. In cats, vaccine-associated sarcoma (VAS) occurs at a **rate** of 1–10 per 10,000 injections. In 1993, a causal relationship between VAS and administration of aluminium adjuvated rabies and FeLV vaccines was established through epidemiologic methods, and in 1996...
441. ...biotechnology companies as a basis for drug development. By setting its budget, its research priorities and making decisions about which researchers to fund, there can be a significant impact on the **rate** of new drug development and on the disease areas in which new drugs are developed. For example, a major investment by the NIH into research on HIV in the 1980s certainly could be viewed as an importa...
442. ...cause we did make a mistake: we misread a deadline on a computer printout and we missed one deadline by three days." The PDUFA goal for the 1995 group called for a 70% on-time record. The 95% on-time **rate** more than doubled the pre-PDUFA on-time level of about 40%. Kessler said the FDA achieved similar positive results with other PDUFA goals, including in its review time for efficacy supplements (reque...
443. ...eum is only about 20 μm, the actual diffusional path of most molecules crossing the skin is on the order of 400 μm. The 20-fold increase in the actual path of permeating molecules greatly reduces the **rate** of drug penetration. Recent research has established that the intercellular route can be dramatically enhanced by attending to the physical chemistry of the system solubilizing the active pharmaceuti...
444. ..., etc. found at the time. In 2010, Excerpta Medica, excluding EMBASE, was sold by Elsevier to the Omnicom Group. In addition to the 28 million reports, Embase's database steadily rises each year at a **rate** of over 900,000 records. This wide expanse of information is used in both professional and educational environments for retrieving any published biomedical or drug related information. Currently, Emb...
445. ...sition of these mutations can be explained by other mutations in the DNA recombination, recognition and repair machinery. Mutations in these genes allow the bacteria to have a higher overall mutation **rate** and to accumulate mutations that cause drug resistance more quickly. MDR-TB can become resistant to the major second-line TB drug groups: fluoroquinolones (moxifloxacin, ofloxacin) and injectable ami...
446. ...re more expensive than first-line drugs and have more adverse effects. The treatment and prognosis of MDR-TB are much more akin to those for cancer than to those for infection. MDR-TB has a mortality **rate** of about 15% with treatment, which further depends on a number of factors, including: The majority of patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis do not receive treatment, as they are found in und...
447. ...at a significant scaling-up of all interventions is needed in the next 10 years if the millennium development goal and related goals for tuberculosis control are to be achieved. If the case detection **rate** can be improved, this will guarantee that people who gain access to treatment facilities are covered and that coverage is widely distributed to people who do not now have access. In general, treatmen...
448. ...nt course completion or eradication of disease; 15% of those died while in treatment; 15% were lost to follow-up; 8% had treatment failure and there was no data on the remaining 6%. Treatment success **rate** was highest in the World Health Organization Mediterranean region at 65%. Treatment success rates were lower than 50% in Ukraine, Mozambique, Indonesia and India. Areas with poor TB surveillance infr...
449. ...gical tools and techniques of the mid-20th century. As of 2016, surgery is typically performed after 6–8 months of unsuccessful anti-TB treatment by other means. Surgical treatment has a high success **rate**, upwards of 80%, but a similarly high failure rate of upwards of 10% including the risk of death. Surgery is first focused on stabilizing cavities, or "destroyed lung", caused by the disease, followe...
450. ...As of 2016, surgery is typically performed after 6–8 months of unsuccessful anti-TB treatment by other means. Surgical treatment has a high success rate, upwards of 80%, but a similarly high failure **rate** of upwards of 10% including the risk of death. Surgery is first focused on stabilizing cavities, or "destroyed lung", caused by the disease, followed by the removal of tuberculomas, and then the remo...
451. ...for almost half of all Russian prison deaths, and as Bobrik et al. point out in their public health study, the 90% reduction in TB incidence contributed to a consequential fall in the prisoner death **rate** in the years following 1997. Baussano et al. articulate that concerning statistics like these are especially worrisome because spikes in TB incidence in prisons are linked to corresponding outbreaks...
452. ...rol. Surfactant deficiency is a common cause of respiratory disease. Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is a particularly well-known instance of surfactant deficiency because it has a high mortality **rate** among preterm babies, a variety of other conditions are related to surfactant levels and composition. Surfactant is composed of primarily lipids (90% by weight), and proteins make up only the remaini...
453. ...tment or after a removal of medicine from blood (e.g. through dialysis). Diabetics and health care professionals use bolus to refer to a dosage of fast-acting insulin with a meal (as opposed to basal **rate**, which is a dose of slow-acting insulin or the continuous pumping of a small quantity of fast-acting insulin to cover the glucose output of the liver). In veterinary medicine a "bolus" is a large tim...
454. ..., DMT1 and ferroportin in response to iron deficiency anemia. Iron absorption from diet is enhanced in the presence of vitamin C and diminished by excess calcium, zinc, or manganese. The human body's **rate** of iron absorption appears to respond to a variety of interdependent factors, including total iron stores, the extent to which the bone marrow is producing new red blood cells, the concentration of h...
455. ...ine can be injected directly into the blood or given as tablets. When given as tablets, it is given in doses of 10 mg three times daily. And when given intravenously, patients are given the drug at a **rate** of 5 mg/minute until 20–40 mg of drug has been injected. Benzoctamine can be analyzed as the H acetyl derivative and "N"-methyl metabolite it gets broken down into using radioactive analysis. Benzoct...
456. ...ving their home apart from going to work, buying essential supplies, or exercise, in an effort to reduce the spread of disease. During the fourth wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, with a low vaccination **rate** compared to the rest of Western Europe (79%), the Austrian government made vaccination mandatory. Medical ethicist Arthur Caplan argues that children have a right to the best available medical care,...
457. ...The lawsuit risks, particularly the 1992 Tokyo High Court's ruling on the MMR vaccine class action, impacted on law amendment. Vaccination is no longer mandatory as of 1994. As a result, vaccination **rate** declined in Japan. The rate of flu vaccination, for example, was 67.9% among schoolchildren in 1979 but dropped down to approximately 20% in 1998–1999. With the rapidly aging society issue, the decli...
458. ...arly the 1992 Tokyo High Court's ruling on the MMR vaccine class action, impacted on law amendment. Vaccination is no longer mandatory as of 1994. As a result, vaccination rate declined in Japan. The **rate** of flu vaccination, for example, was 67.9% among schoolchildren in 1979 but dropped down to approximately 20% in 1998–1999. With the rapidly aging society issue, the decline among schoolchildren hit...
459. ...ch as the one for human papillomavirus, coverage is below 50%. Mandatory vaccination against measles was introduced in 1968 and since 1978, all children receive two doses of vaccine with a compliance **rate** of more than 95%. For TBE, the vaccination rate in 2007 was estimated to be 12.4% of the general population in 2007. For comparison, in neighboring Austria, 87% of the population is vaccinated agains...
460. ...is below 50%. Mandatory vaccination against measles was introduced in 1968 and since 1978, all children receive two doses of vaccine with a compliance rate of more than 95%. For TBE, the vaccination **rate** in 2007 was estimated to be 12.4% of the general population in 2007. For comparison, in neighboring Austria, 87% of the population is vaccinated against TBE. In South Africa vaccination is voluntary....
461. ...ished articles There is no evidence that Cold-fx is effective in those infected with the common cold. The effect of preventative use is not clear. When used preventively it makes no difference on the **rate** of infections. It also appears to have no effect on how bad the infections are. There is tentative evidence that it may lessen the length of sickness when used preventively. Blumenthal from American...
462. ...ted of cations in comparison to the solution bulk, thereby leading to reduced screening, electric fields extending several nanometers, and currents decreasing quasi exponentially with the distance at **rate** ~1 nm. This region is termed "Gouy-Chapman conduit" and is strongly regulated by phosphorylation, which adds one negative charge to the protein surface that disrupts cationic depletion and prevents l...
463. ...hematical basics of electron charge transfer absent chemical bonds leading to pseudocapacitance was developed by Rudolph A. Marcus. Marcus Theory explains the rates of electron transfer reactions—the **rate** at which an electron can move from one chemical species to another. It was originally formulated to address outer sphere electron transfer reactions, in which two chemical species change only in thei...
464. ...sto-optic modulators. This modulation scheme is employed by the heterodyne light scattering method, too. Phase-analysis light scattering (PALS) is a method for evaluating zeta potential, in which the **rate** of phase change of the interference between light scattered by the sample and the modulated reference beam is analyzed. This rate is compared with a mathematically generated sine wave predetermined b...
465. ...tering (PALS) is a method for evaluating zeta potential, in which the rate of phase change of the interference between light scattered by the sample and the modulated reference beam is analyzed. This **rate** is compared with a mathematically generated sine wave predetermined by the modulator frequency. The application of large fields, which can lead to sample heating and breakdown of the colloids is no l...
466. ...surface potential. Capacitance is usually defined as the stored charge between two conducting surfaces separated by a dielectric divided by the voltage between the surfaces. Another definition is the **rate** of change of the stored charge or surface charge (σ) divided by the rate of change of the voltage between the surfaces or the electric surface potential (ψ). The latter is called the "differential ca...
467. ...tween two conducting surfaces separated by a dielectric divided by the voltage between the surfaces. Another definition is the rate of change of the stored charge or surface charge (σ) divided by the **rate** of change of the voltage between the surfaces or the electric surface potential (ψ). The latter is called the "differential capacitance," but usually the stored charge is directly proportional to the...
468. ....." Another form of differential capacitance refers to single isolated conducting bodies. It is usually discussed in books under the topic of "electrostatics." This capacitance is best defined as the **rate** of change of charge stored in the body divided by the rate of change of the potential of the body. The definition of the absolute potential of the body depends on what is selected as a reference. Thi...
469. ...le isolated conducting bodies. It is usually discussed in books under the topic of "electrostatics." This capacitance is best defined as the rate of change of charge stored in the body divided by the **rate** of change of the potential of the body. The definition of the absolute potential of the body depends on what is selected as a reference. This is sometimes referred to as the "self-capacitance" of a b...
470. ...or the attenuation of sound in a Newtonian fluid, such as water or air, due to the fluid's viscosity. It states that the amplitude of a plane wave decreases exponentially with distance traveled, at a **rate** given by formula_1 where is the dynamic viscosity coefficient of the fluid, is the sound's angular frequency, is the fluid density, and is the speed of sound in the medium. The law and its derivation...
471. ...roducing the tensors (matrices) formula_12, formula_13 and formula_14 (where "e" is a scalar called dilation, and formula_15 is the identity tensor), which describes crude shear flow (i.e. the strain **rate** tensor), pure shear flow (i.e. the deviatoric part of the strain rate tensor, i.e. the shear rate tensor) and compression flow (i.e. the isotropic dilation tensor), respectively, the classic Navier-S...
472. ...(where "e" is a scalar called dilation, and formula_15 is the identity tensor), which describes crude shear flow (i.e. the strain rate tensor), pure shear flow (i.e. the deviatoric part of the strain **rate** tensor, i.e. the shear rate tensor) and compression flow (i.e. the isotropic dilation tensor), respectively, the classic Navier-Stokes equation gets a lucid form. Note that the term in the momentum e...
473. ...d dilation, and formula_15 is the identity tensor), which describes crude shear flow (i.e. the strain rate tensor), pure shear flow (i.e. the deviatoric part of the strain rate tensor, i.e. the shear **rate** tensor) and compression flow (i.e. the isotropic dilation tensor), respectively, the classic Navier-Stokes equation gets a lucid form. Note that the term in the momentum equation that contains the vo...
474. ...e of the flow, and so also no flow dilation "e" to which is proportional: So the incompressible Navier-Stokes equation can be simply written: In fact, note that for the incompressible flow the strain **rate** is purely deviatoric since there is no dilation ("e"=0). In other words, for an incompressible flow the isotropic stress component is simply the pressure: and the deviatoric (shear) stress is simply...
475. ...other words, for an incompressible flow the isotropic stress component is simply the pressure: and the deviatoric (shear) stress is simply twice the product between the shear viscosity and the strain **rate** (Newton's constitutive law): Therefore, in the incompressible flow the volume viscosity plays no role in the fluid dynamics. However, in a compressible flow there are cases where formula_24, which ar...
476. ...ich are explained below. In general, moreover, formula_4 is not just a property of the fluid in the classic thermodynamic sense, but also depends on the process, for example the compression/expansion **rate**. The same goes for shear viscosity. For a Newtonian fluid the shear viscosity is a pure fluid property, but for a non-Newtonian fluid it is not a pure fluid property due to its dependence on the velo...
477. ...roperty due to its dependence on the velocity gradient. Neither shear nor volume viscosity are equilibrium parameters or properties, but transport properties. The velocity gradient and/or compression **rate** are therefore independent variables together with pressure, temperature, and other state variables. According to Landau,  He later adds:  After an example, he concludes (with formula_4 used to repres...
478. ...n constant of the positively charged ion, formula_64, and the diffusion constant of the negatively charged ion, formula_65, and formula_66 is the salt concentration. formula_67 is the gradient, i.e., **rate** of change with position, of the logarithm of the salt concentration, which is equivalent to the rate of change of the salt concentration, divided by the salt concentration – it is effectively one ove...
479. ...arged ion, formula_65, and formula_66 is the salt concentration. formula_67 is the gradient, i.e., rate of change with position, of the logarithm of the salt concentration, which is equivalent to the **rate** of change of the salt concentration, divided by the salt concentration – it is effectively one over the distance over which the concentration decreases by a factor of e. The above equation is approxi...
480. ...es like fatty meals or alcohol that increase drug delivery. The substances may act on the drug's capsule to speed up drug release, or they may stimulate the body's absorptive surfaces to increase the **rate** of drug uptake. Dose dumping is a disadvantage found in extended release dosage form. In general, drug companies try to avoid drugs with significant dose dumping effects. Such drugs are prone to prob...
481. ...tion Thus, the two substrates of this enzyme are 5,6-dihydrouracil and NADP, whereas its 3 products are uracil, NADPH, and H. In humans the enzyme is encoded by the "DPYD" gene. It is the initial and **rate**-limiting step in pyrimidine catabolism. It catalyzes the reduction of uracil and thymine. It is also involved in the degradation of the chemotherapeutic drugs 5-fluorouracil and tegafur. It also part...
482. ...n common use include: As of late 2007, 5 structures have been solved for this class of enzymes, with PDB accession codes , , , , and . The protein is a pyrimidine catabolic enzyme and the initial and **rate**-limiting factor in the pathway of uracil and thymidine catabolism. Genetic deficiency of this enzyme results in an error in pyrimidine metabolism associated with thymine-uraciluria and an increased r...
483. ...ring with elevated blood cholesterol levels. The primary goal was to inhibit the cholesterol biosynthesis in the body. Hence HMG-CoA reductase (HMGR) became a natural target. HMGR was found to be the **rate**-limiting enzyme in the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway. There is no build-up of potentially toxic precursors when HMGR is inhibited, because hydroxymethylglutarate is water-soluble and there are alt...
484. ...lettering in their computerized order entry, automated dispensing machines, medication admission records, prescription labels, and drug product labels. Wrong-drug errors have been found to occur at a **rate** of about one per thousand orders filled or dispensed. Evidence regarding the effect of Tall Man lettering on error rates is mixed. A 2004 eye-tracking study found that Tall Man lettering resulted in...
485. ...order of a micron. Using dynamic light scattering, Sitnikova "et al." showed that the droplets of oil in the emulsion grow by Ostwald ripening, and that droplets do not coalesce. The Ostwald ripening **rate** is observed to diminish with increasing ethanol concentrations until the droplets stabilize in size with an average diameter of . Based on thermodynamic considerations of the multi-component mixture,...
486. ...ntraperitoneal injections prior to 1970. One of the earliest recorded uses of IP injections involved the insemination of a guinea-pig in 1957. The study however did not find an increase in conception **rate** when compared to mating. In that same year, a study injected egg whites intraperitoneally into rats to study changes in "droplet" fractions in kidney cells. The study showed that the number of small...
487. ...hymal stem cells for colitis. This study compared intraperitoneal injections, intravenous injections, and anal injections. It was concluded that the intraperitoneal injection had the highest survival **rate** of 87.5%. This study shows how intraperitoneal injections can be more effective and beneficial than other traditional routes of administration. One article reviews the injection of sodium pentobarbit...
488. ...ntil 2024, while the IMI 1 is still running. Overall budget is €3.276 billion, taken for half from the European Horizon 2020 program. Goals of that second calls are to improve clinical trials success **rate**, deliver clinical proof of concept, biomarkers and new medicines. In September 2014 IMI-TRAIN, an IMI/ENSO-funded education and training collaboration to support biomedical scientists and professiona...
489. ...dex at the boundary of the separated compounds is detected using schlieren optics at both ends of the solution in the cell. Maintenance dose In pharmacokinetics, a maintenance dose is the maintenance **rate** [mg/h] of drug administration equal to the rate of elimination at steady state. This is not to be confused with dose regimen, which is a type of drug therapy in which the dose [mg] of a drug is given...
490. ...s detected using schlieren optics at both ends of the solution in the cell. Maintenance dose In pharmacokinetics, a maintenance dose is the maintenance rate [mg/h] of drug administration equal to the **rate** of elimination at steady state. This is not to be confused with dose regimen, which is a type of drug therapy in which the dose [mg] of a drug is given at a regular dosing interval on a repetitive ba...
491. ...terminal illness; conversely, a curable illness can still result in the patient's death. The proportion of people with a disease that are cured by a given treatment, called the cure fraction or cure **rate**, is determined by comparing disease-free survival of treated people against a matched control group that never had the disease. Another way of determining the cure fraction and/or "cure time" is by m...
492. ...ing disease-free survival of treated people against a matched control group that never had the disease. Another way of determining the cure fraction and/or "cure time" is by measuring when the hazard **rate** in a diseased group of individuals returns to the hazard rate measured in the general population. Inherent in the idea of a cure is the permanent end to the specific instance of the disease. When a p...
493. ...control group that never had the disease. Another way of determining the cure fraction and/or "cure time" is by measuring when the hazard rate in a diseased group of individuals returns to the hazard **rate** measured in the general population. Inherent in the idea of a cure is the permanent end to the specific instance of the disease. When a person has the common cold, and then recovers from it, the pers...
494. ...lthy control groups. This logically rigorous approach essentially equates indefinite remission with cure. The comparison is usually made through the Kaplan-Meier estimator approach. The simplest cure **rate** model was published by Joseph Berkson and Robert P. Gage in 1952. In this model, the survival at any given time is equal to those that are cured plus those that are not cured, but who have not yet di...
495. ...f people surviving at any given point in time, formula_3 is the proportion that are permanently cured, and formula_4 is an exponential curve that represents the survival of the non-cured people. Cure **rate** curves can be determined through an analysis of the data. The analysis allows the statistician to determine the proportion of people that are permanently cured by a given treatment, and also how long...
496. ...e proportion of people that are permanently cured by a given treatment, and also how long after treatment it is necessary to wait before declaring an asymptomatic individual to be cured. Several cure **rate** models exist, such as the expectation-maximization algorithm and Markov chain Monte Carlo model. It is possible to use cure rate models to compare the efficacy of different treatments. Generally, the...
497. ...before declaring an asymptomatic individual to be cured. Several cure rate models exist, such as the expectation-maximization algorithm and Markov chain Monte Carlo model. It is possible to use cure **rate** models to compare the efficacy of different treatments. Generally, the survival curves are adjusted for the effects of normal aging on mortality, especially when diseases of older people are being st...
498. ...f an emulsion is a relatively simple process to reverse. A creamed emulsion increases the likelihood of coalescence due to the close proximity of the globules in the cream. Factors that influence the **rate** of creaming are similar to those involved in the sedimentation rate of suspension particles. Stokes Law is inadequate to predict creaming but can be used to identify these factors. Creaming of an emu...
499. ...mulsion increases the likelihood of coalescence due to the close proximity of the globules in the cream. Factors that influence the rate of creaming are similar to those involved in the sedimentation **rate** of suspension particles. Stokes Law is inadequate to predict creaming but can be used to identify these factors. Creaming of an emulsion also increases the tendency of an emulsion to inversion. This...
500. ...syndrome (AWS) is a set of symptoms that can occur following a reduction in alcohol use after a period of excessive use. Symptoms typically include anxiety, shakiness, sweating, vomiting, fast heart **rate**, and a mild fever. More severe symptoms may include seizures, and delirium tremens (DTs); which can be fatal in untreated patients. Symptoms start at around 6 hours after last drink. Peak incidence o...
501. ...ation, nausea and vomiting or headache. Insomnia is a common protracted withdrawal symptom that persists after the acute withdrawal phase of alcohol. Insomnia has also been found to influence relapse **rate**. Studies have found that magnesium or trazodone can help treat the persisting withdrawal symptom of insomnia in recovering alcoholics. Insomnia can be difficult to treat in these individuals because...
502. ...the greasy feeling of the scalp after a day or two of not shampooing. Using shampoo every day removes sebum, the oil produced by the scalp. This causes the sebaceous glands to produce oil at a higher **rate**, to compensate for what is lost during shampooing. According to Michelle Hanjani, a dermatologist at Columbia University, a gradual reduction in shampoo use will cause the sebum glands to produce at...
503. ...ensate for what is lost during shampooing. According to Michelle Hanjani, a dermatologist at Columbia University, a gradual reduction in shampoo use will cause the sebum glands to produce at a slower **rate**, resulting in less grease in the scalp. Although this approach might seem unappealing to some individuals, many people try alternate shampooing techniques like baking soda and vinegar in order to avo...
504. ...cal systems in general. The journal "Biorheology", which he co-founded, published an obituary. His contribution to medical science was recognised in his obituary in the journal "Thrombosis Research". **Rate** of infusion In pharmacokinetics, the rate of infusion (or dosing rate) refers not just to the rate at which a drug is administered, but the desired rate at which a drug "should" be administered to ac...
505. ...eology", which he co-founded, published an obituary. His contribution to medical science was recognised in his obituary in the journal "Thrombosis Research". Rate of infusion In pharmacokinetics, the **rate** of infusion (or dosing rate) refers not just to the rate at which a drug is administered, but the desired rate at which a drug "should" be administered to achieve a steady state of a fixed dose which...
506. ..., published an obituary. His contribution to medical science was recognised in his obituary in the journal "Thrombosis Research". Rate of infusion In pharmacokinetics, the rate of infusion (or dosing **rate**) refers not just to the rate at which a drug is administered, but the desired rate at which a drug "should" be administered to achieve a steady state of a fixed dose which has been demonstrated to be...
507. ...contribution to medical science was recognised in his obituary in the journal "Thrombosis Research". Rate of infusion In pharmacokinetics, the rate of infusion (or dosing rate) refers not just to the **rate** at which a drug is administered, but the desired rate at which a drug "should" be administered to achieve a steady state of a fixed dose which has been demonstrated to be therapeutically effective. A...
508. ...obituary in the journal "Thrombosis Research". Rate of infusion In pharmacokinetics, the rate of infusion (or dosing rate) refers not just to the rate at which a drug is administered, but the desired **rate** at which a drug "should" be administered to achieve a steady state of a fixed dose which has been demonstrated to be therapeutically effective. Abbreviations include K, K, or R. It can be calculated...
509. ...nce or does dependence cause the condition? The underlying mental illness needs to be identified and treated in conjunction with treating the polysubstance dependence in order to increase the success **rate** of treatment and decrease the probability of relapse. One specific study focused on alcohol and depression, because they are so commonly inter-related. Researchers have discovered that depression con...
510. ...007, increased by 48% as compared with last year. The import volume reached 336 million dollars, which increased by 51% as compared with 2006, and the export volume was 41 million dollars. The growth **rate** of export volume in 2007 had declined from the level of 58% in 2006 to 26% in 2007. Although the export of China's biopharmaceutical industry constantly kept a high growth rate, the volume is very sm...
511. ...on dollars. The growth rate of export volume in 2007 had declined from the level of 58% in 2006 to 26% in 2007. Although the export of China's biopharmaceutical industry constantly kept a high growth **rate**, the volume is very small compared with the import volume. The export volume was only 41 million dollars in 2007 whereas the import volume added up to US$336 million. This sharp contrast indicated th...
512. ...he glycoprotein adhesive found on the capture spiral silk, as well as the protein structure of the fiber itself, has mild antibacterial properties. The silk, acting as a local antiseptic, reduced the **rate** of sepsis and chronic illness. The silk's viscoelastic properties and high tensile strength and toughness aided wound healing in a way similar to surgical tape. Despite its superiority to current met...
513. ...ate of half-lives is variable between the coxibs. Celecoxib was the first specific inhibitor of COX-2 approved to treat patients with rheumatism and osteoarthritis. A study showed that the absorption **rate**, when given orally, is moderate, and peak plasma concentration occurs after about 2–4 hours. However, the extent of absorption is not well known. Celecoxib has the affinity to bind extensively to pla...
514. ...high the concentration of Ang II is. The angiotensin receptor blockers can inhibit the receptor in a competitive surmountable, competitive insurmountable or noncompetitive fashion, depending upon the **rate** at which they dissociate from the receptor. For a simple overview of the development of ARBs, see figure 3. Because of saralasin, the first Ang II antagonist, and the development of the first ACE inh...
515. ...as higher affinity for the receptor, which is probably a result of the bulky substituents of the structure. The amine is protonated at physiological pH condition, triggering better uptake. The uptake **rate** of the agonist is different depending on whether the amine in R is primary, secondary or tertiary but the latter seem to give the best results. For the R substituent an electron rich sulfonamide grou...
516. ...ation on "cis"-4,5-methano cyanopyrrolidines and came across with a new adamantyl derivative, which showed extraordinary "ex vivo" DPP-4 inhibition in rat plasma. Also noted, high microsomal turnover **rate** which indicated that the derivative was quickly converted to an active metabolite. After hydroxylation on the adamantyl group they had a product with better microsomal stability and improved chemical...
517. ...cium and magnesium promote their flocculation. The behaviour of clay aggregates influences the soil structure and affects the permeability of the soil on which directly depends the water infiltration **rate**. It is important to accurately know the nature and the concentrations of cations at which the flocculation occurs: critical flocculation concentration (CFC). The SAR parameter is also used to determi...
518. ...drugs constitute US$4.25 billion of the total US$14–17billion of domestic drug market. Around 25% of India's drugs are fake, counterfeit or substandard. If the fake drugs market grows at the current **rate** of 25%, it will cross the US$10billion mark by 2017. Trade in fake drugs is driven caused by lack of adequate regulations, shortage of drug inspectors and a lack of lab facilities to check the purity...
519. ...degree of interparticle attraction. For attractions strong relative to the thermal energy (given by kT), Brownian motion produces irreversibly flocculated structures with growth rates limited by the **rate** of particle diffusion. This leads to a description using such parameters as the degree of branching, ramification or fractal dimensionality. A reversible growth model has been constructed by modifyin...
520. ...l) and time (temporal). Defects have been reported to flash by in the blink of an eye in thin films of colloidal crystals under oil using a simple optical microscope. But quantitatively measuring the **rate** of its propagation provides an entirely different challenge, which has been measured at somewhere near the speed of sound. Crystalline thin-films from non-spherical colloids were produced using conve...
521. ...ties between the adhesive and the substrate increase, so does the degree of mucoadhesion. The bond strength increases with the degree of penetration, increasing the adhesion strength. The penetration **rate** is determined by the diffusion coefficient, the degree of flexibility of the adsorbate chains, mobility and contact time. The diffusion mechanism itself is affected by the length of the molecular cha...
522. ...ted by many factors unique to each route of application. In general, mucoadhesives work to increase the contact time at these sites, prolonging the residence time and maintaining an effective release **rate**. These polymeric coatings may be applied to a wide variety of liquid and solid dosages, each specially suited for the route of administration. Tablets are small, solid dosages suitable for the use of...
523. ...al groups. Random graphs can be used to derive analytical expressions for simple polymerisation mechanisms, such as step-growth polymerisation, or alternatively, they can be combined with a system of **rate** equations that are integrated numerically. B&amp;O Supprettes B&O Supprettes is the brand name for a prescription medication containing powdered opium and belladonna alkaloids in a suppository form....
524. ...-lasting changes to the GABA receptors with resultant long-lasting disturbances to behaviour, endocrine function and immune function. Use of prescribed benzodiazepines is associated with an increased **rate** of suicide or attempted suicide. The prosuicidal effects of benzodiazepines are suspected to be due to a psychiatric disturbance caused by side effects or withdrawal symptoms. Because benzodiazepines...
525. ...bowel, breast, and bladder, and other neoplasms. It has been hypothesised that benzodiazepines depress immune function and increase viral infections and could be the cause or trigger of the increased **rate** of cancer. While initially U.S. Food and Drug Administration reviewers expressed concerns about approving the nonbenzodiazepine Z drugs due to concerns of cancer, ultimately they changed their minds...

=== TEST (274 occurrences) ===
1. ...trate plaque. Sometimes a significant amount of alcohol (up to 27% vol) is added, as a carrier for the flavor, to provide "bite". Because of the alcohol content, it is possible to fail a breathalyzer **test** after rinsing, although breath alcohol levels return to normal after 10 minutes. In addition, alcohol is a drying agent, which encourages bacterial activity in the mouth, releasing more malodorous vo...
2. ...wide and a major cause of morbidity and mortality. In areas with decreasing malaria incidence, many febrile patients are inappropriately treated for malaria, and in the absence of a simple diagnostic **test** to identify alternative causes of fever, clinicians presume that a non-malarial febrile illness is most likely a bacterial infection, leading to inappropriate use of antibiotics. Multiple studies hav...
3. ...tic energy of the surrounding fluid particle,  In 1906 Smoluchowski published a one-dimensional model to describe a particle undergoing Brownian motion. The model assumes collisions with where is the **test** particle's mass and the mass of one of the individual particles composing the fluid. It is assumed that the particle collisions are confined to one dimension and that it is equally probable for the t...
4. ...t particle's mass and the mass of one of the individual particles composing the fluid. It is assumed that the particle collisions are confined to one dimension and that it is equally probable for the **test** particle to be hit from the left as from the right. It is also assumed that every collision always imparts the same magnitude of . If is the number of collisions from the right and the number of coll...
5. ...colloids, the term ""eigencolloid"" is used to designate pure phases, i.e., pure Tc(OH), U(OH), or Am(OH). Colloids have been suspected for the long-range transport of plutonium on the Nevada Nuclear **Test** Site. They have been the subject of detailed studies for many years. However, the mobility of inorganic colloids is very low in compacted bentonites and in deep clay formations because of the process...
6. ...ting. "They are looking for leadership. Sacrifice = Victory." In May 2004, Rumsfeld considered whether to redefine the war on terrorism as a fight against "worldwide insurgency". He advised aides "to **test** what the results could be" if the war on terrorism were renamed. Rumsfeld also ordered specific public Pentagon attacks on and responses to U.S. newspaper columns that reported the negative aspects o...
7. ...ges and disadvantages. The kinetic process of destabilization can be rather long – up to several months, or even years for some products. Often the formulator must accelerate this process in order to **test** products in a reasonable time during product design. Thermal methods are the most commonly used – these consist of increasing the emulsion temperature to accelerate destabilization (if below critical...
8. ...ed requirement. The FDA does not approve applied coatings used in the food processing industry. There is no review process to approve the composition of nonstick coatings; nor does the FDA inspect or **test** these materials. Through their governing of processes, however, the FDA does have a set of regulations that cover the formulation, manufacturing, and use of nonstick coatings. Hence, materials like P...
9. ...g myocardium. However, the cost-effectiveness of PET for this role versus SPECT is unclear. FDG PET imaging of atherosclerosis to detect patients at risk of stroke is also feasible. Also, it can help **test** the efficacy of novel anti-atherosclerosis therapies. Imaging infections with molecular imaging technologies can improve diagnosis and treatment follow-up. Clinically, PET has been widely used to ima...
10. ...d site of action can be inferred indirectly by competition studies between unlabeled drug and radiolabeled compounds to bind with specificity to the site. A single radioligand can be used this way to **test** many potential drug candidates for the same target. A related technique involves scanning with radioligands that compete with an endogenous (naturally occurring) substance at a given receptor to demo...
11. ...g role as a method to assess the response to therapy, in particular, cancer therapy, where the risk to the patient from lack of knowledge about disease progress is much greater than the risk from the **test** radiation. Since the tracers are radioactive, the elderly and pregnant are unable to use it due to risks posed by radiation. Limitations to the widespread use of PET arise from the high costs of cycl...
12. ...produce large elevations in serotonin levels. Some experts prefer the terms serotonin toxicity or serotonin toxidrome, to more accurately reflect that it is a form of poisoning. There is no specific **test** for SS. Diagnosis is by symptom observation and investigation of the person's history. Several criteria have been proposed. The first evaluated criteria were introduced in 1991 by Harvey Sternbach. R...
13. ...explosives, and other charges. On 6 May 2010, the same trial court sentenced him to death on four counts and to a life sentence on five counts. The Central Bureau of Investigation also conducted this **test** on Krishna, a key witness and suspect in the high-profile 2008 Aarushi-Hemraj Murder Case to seek more information from Krishna and also determine his credibility as a witness with key information, y...
14. ...three cubs, was found dead as a result of being hit by a vehicle. A Special Task Force requested the narcoanalysis testing of four persons, one of whom refused to consent on grounds of potential post-**test** complications. In 2004, "Novaya Gazeta", with reference to KGB General Oleg Kalugin, published an article that said that since the end of the 1980s the First and Second Directorates of the KGB had us...
15. ...position is really occupied by the same amino acid in all components. For example, in the B2 sublibrary position 2 is occupied by the "yellow" amino acid in all the nine components. If in a screening **test** this sublibrary gives positive answer it means that position 2 in the active peptide is also occupied by the "yellow" amino acid. The amino acid sequence can be determined by testing all the nine (or...
16. ...is missing from all peptides of the mixture. The figure shows the full library and the three omission libraries. At the top the omitted amino acids are shown. If the omission library gives a negative **test** the omitted amino acid is present in the active component. If the peptides are not cleaved from the solid support we deal with a mixture of beads, each bead containing a single peptide. Smith and his...
17. ...ardson-Merrell had applied for its approval in September 1960. The official in charge of the FDA review, Frances Oldham Kelsey, did not rely on information from the company, which did not include any **test** results. Richardson-Merrell was called on to perform tests and report the results. The company demanded approval six times, and was refused each time. The distribution for "testing" resulted in 17 ch...
18. ...nge 3.12–3.19 for frequencies between about 1 MHz and the far infrared region. The relative static permittivity, "ε", can be measured for static electric fields as follows: first the capacitance of a **test** capacitor, "C", is measured with vacuum between its plates. Then, using the same capacitor and distance between its plates, the capacitance "C" with a dielectric between the plates is measured. The r...
19. ...of psychosis in antipsychotic withdrawal, may appear when the drugs are discontinued, or discontinued too rapidly. While clinical trials of psychiatric medications, like other medications, typically **test** medicines separately, there is a practice in psychiatry (more so than in somatic medicine) to use polypharmacy in combinations of medicines that have never been tested together in clinical trials (th...
20. ...s many aerosol sizes do, the width of the distribution implies negative particles sizes, which is not physically realistic. However, the normal distribution can be suitable for some aerosols, such as **test** aerosols, certain pollen grains and spores. A more widely chosen log-normal distribution gives the number frequency as: where: The log-normal distribution has no negative values, can cover a wide ran...
21. ...ent, and CD protocol. For oral use, the doses recommended on the labeling can cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and potentially life-threatening dehydration. No clinical trials have been performed to **test** the health claims made for chlorine dioxide, which originate from former Scientologist Jim Humble in his 2006 self-published book, "The Miracle Mineral Solution of the 21st Century" and from anecdota...
22. ...otal urinary arsenic may easily be exceeded by a healthy person eating a seafood meal. Tests are available to diagnose poisoning by measuring arsenic in blood, urine, hair, and fingernails. The urine **test** is the most reliable test for arsenic exposure within the last few days. Urine testing needs to be done within 24–48 hours for an accurate analysis of an acute exposure. Tests on hair and fingernails...
23. ...asily be exceeded by a healthy person eating a seafood meal. Tests are available to diagnose poisoning by measuring arsenic in blood, urine, hair, and fingernails. The urine test is the most reliable **test** for arsenic exposure within the last few days. Urine testing needs to be done within 24–48 hours for an accurate analysis of an acute exposure. Tests on hair and fingernails can measure exposure to h...
24. ...tegory. Note: The undefined values are expected to be roughly equivalent to the category 5 values for oral and dermal administration. Skin corrosion and irritation are determined through a skin patch **test** analysis, similar to an allergic inflammation patch test. This examines the severity of the damage done; when it is incurred and how long it remains; whether it is reversible and how many test subjec...
25. ...ghly equivalent to the category 5 values for oral and dermal administration. Skin corrosion and irritation are determined through a skin patch test analysis, similar to an allergic inflammation patch **test**. This examines the severity of the damage done; when it is incurred and how long it remains; whether it is reversible and how many test subjects were affected. Skin corrosion from a substance must pe...
26. ...patch test analysis, similar to an allergic inflammation patch test. This examines the severity of the damage done; when it is incurred and how long it remains; whether it is reversible and how many **test** subjects were affected. Skin corrosion from a substance must penetrate through the epidermis into the dermis within four hours of application and must not reverse the damage within 14 days. Skin irri...
27. ...vere than corrosion if: the damage occurs within 72 hours of application; or for three consecutive days after application within a 14-day period; or causes inflammation which lasts for 14 days in two **test** subjects. Mild skin irritation is minor damage (less severe than irritation) within 72 hours of application or for three consecutive days after application. Serious eye damage involves tissue damage...
28. ...itions, by workers that earn a fair wage, using methods that do not damage the environment. In regard to materials, traceability refers to the capability to associate a finished part with destructive **test** results performed on material from the same ingot with the same heat treatment, or to associate a finished part with results of a test performed on a sample from the same melt identified by the uniqu...
29. ...to the capability to associate a finished part with destructive test results performed on material from the same ingot with the same heat treatment, or to associate a finished part with results of a **test** performed on a sample from the same melt identified by the unique lot number of the material. Destructive tests typically include chemical composition and mechanical strength tests. A heat number is...
30. ...ment, the term traceability (or requirements traceability) refers to the ability to link product requirements back to stakeholders' rationales and forward to corresponding design artifacts, code, and **test** cases. Traceability supports numerous software engineering activities such as change impact analysis, compliance verification or traceback of code, regression test selection, and requirements validat...
31. ...ponding design artifacts, code, and test cases. Traceability supports numerous software engineering activities such as change impact analysis, compliance verification or traceback of code, regression **test** selection, and requirements validation. It is usually accomplished in the form of a matrix created for the verification and validation of the project. Unfortunately, the practice of constructing and...
32. ...psychosis. Research indicates that cannabis, particularly CBD, may have anxiolytic (anxiety-reducing) effects. A study found that CBD significantly reduced anxiety during a simulated public speaking **test** for individuals with social anxiety disorder. However, the relationship between cannabis use and anxiety symptoms is complex, and while some users report relief, the overall evidence from observation...
33. ...on of more than 100 mL per 12 hours, except under a medical exemption. The United States Anti-Doping Agency notes that, as well as the dangers inherent in IV therapy, "IVs can be used to change blood **test** results (such as hematocrit where EPO or blood doping is being used), mask urine test results (by dilution) or by administering prohibited substances in a way that will more quickly be cleared from t...
34. ...es Anti-Doping Agency notes that, as well as the dangers inherent in IV therapy, "IVs can be used to change blood test results (such as hematocrit where EPO or blood doping is being used), mask urine **test** results (by dilution) or by administering prohibited substances in a way that will more quickly be cleared from the body in order to beat an anti-doping test". Players suspended after attending "bout...
35. ...r blood doping is being used), mask urine test results (by dilution) or by administering prohibited substances in a way that will more quickly be cleared from the body in order to beat an anti-doping **test**". Players suspended after attending "boutique IV clinics" which offer this sort of treatment include footballer Samir Nasri in 2017 and swimmer Ryan Lochte in 2018. In the 1960s, John Myers developed...
36. ...a price is excessive or not. In these circumstances, drug manufacturers must submit a proposed price to the appropriate regulatory agency. Furthermore, "the International Therapeutic Class Comparison **Test** is responsible for comparing the National Average Transaction Price of the patented drug product under review" different countries that the prices are being compared to are the following: France, Ger...
37. ...ears), which include at least one year of practical experience. Graduates receive a Doctorate of Pharmacy (PharmD) upon graduation. Most schools require students to take a Pharmacy College Admissions **Test** PCAT and complete 90 credit hours of university coursework in the sciences, mathematics, composition, and humanities before entry into the PharmD program. Due to the large admittance requirements and...
38. ...ted and beryllium hypersensitivity demonstrated with specific testing. Some studies suggest that up to 6% of all cases of sarcoidosis are actually berylliosis.  The beryllium lymphocyte proliferation **test** (BeLPT) is the standard way of determining sensitivity to beryllium. The test is performed by acquiring either peripheral blood or fluid from a bronchial alveolar lavage, and lymphocytes are cultured...
39. ...udies suggest that up to 6% of all cases of sarcoidosis are actually berylliosis.  The beryllium lymphocyte proliferation test (BeLPT) is the standard way of determining sensitivity to beryllium. The **test** is performed by acquiring either peripheral blood or fluid from a bronchial alveolar lavage, and lymphocytes are cultured with beryllium sulfate. Cells are then counted and those with elevated number...
40. .... The physicist W. W. Hansen who was instrumental in the development of the klystron also died of the disease in 1949. Beryllium sensitivity testing was first performed as a cutaneous beryllium patch **test** in the early 1950s, but was discontinued due to the test stimulating sensitization or aggravating existing chronic beryllium disease. In the 1990s, the DOE began screening employees using the BeLPT t...
41. ...development of the klystron also died of the disease in 1949. Beryllium sensitivity testing was first performed as a cutaneous beryllium patch test in the early 1950s, but was discontinued due to the **test** stimulating sensitization or aggravating existing chronic beryllium disease. In the 1990s, the DOE began screening employees using the BeLPT test in facilities where beryllium was used, to take preve...
42. ...t in the early 1950s, but was discontinued due to the test stimulating sensitization or aggravating existing chronic beryllium disease. In the 1990s, the DOE began screening employees using the BeLPT **test** in facilities where beryllium was used, to take preventive measures against beryllium exposure. Somewhat alarmingly, clerical staff who were never involved in handling the material had developed asym...
43. ...a panel of expert clinical investigators, including what alternative or existing treatments to compare to the new drug and what type(s) of patients might benefit. If the sponsor cannot obtain enough **test** subjects at one location investigators at other locations are recruited to join the study. During the trial, investigators recruit subjects with the predetermined characteristics, administer the trea...
44. ...o then analyzes the pooled data using statistical tests. Examples of clinical trial goals include assessing the safety and relative effectiveness of a medication or device: While most clinical trials **test** one alternative to the novel intervention, some expand to three or four and may include a placebo. Except for small, single-location trials, the design and objectives are specified in a document call...
45. ...ocol is the trial's "operating manual" and ensures all researchers perform the trial in the same way on similar subjects and that the data is comparable across all subjects. As a trial is designed to **test** hypotheses and rigorously monitor and assess outcomes, it can be seen as an application of the scientific method, specifically the experimental step. The most common clinical trials evaluate new phar...
46. ...ment of disease. The first randomised curative trial was carried out at the MRC Tuberculosis Research Unit by Sir Geoffrey Marshall (1887–1982). The trial, carried out between 1946 and 1947, aimed to **test** the efficacy of the chemical streptomycin for curing pulmonary tuberculosis. The trial was both double-blind and placebo-controlled. The methodology of clinical trials was further developed by Sir Au...
47. ...ed as randomized, double-blind, and placebo-controlled. Clinical studies having small numbers of subjects may be "sponsored" by single researchers or a small group of researchers, and are designed to **test** simple questions or feasibility to expand the research for a more comprehensive randomized controlled trial. Clinical studies can be "sponsored" (financed and organized) by academic institutions, pha...
48. ...quality typically refers to the absence of errors which can impact decision making, both during the conduct of the trial and in use of the trial results. An Interactional Justice Model may be used to **test** the effects of willingness to talk with a doctor about clinical trial enrollment. Results found that potential clinical trial candidates were less likely to enroll in clinical trials if the patient i...
49. ...is the cloudiness or haziness of a fluid caused by large numbers of individual particles that are generally invisible to the naked eye, similar to smoke in air. The measurement of turbidity is a key **test** of both water clarity and water quality. Fluids can contain suspended solid matter consisting of particles of many different sizes. While some suspended material will be large enough and heavy enough...
50. ...astern coast of Australia, in particular Moreton Bay, turbidity levels as high as 600 Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU) are needed for proper ecosystem health. The measurement of turbidity is a key **test** of both water clarity and water quality. There are two standard units for reporting turbidity: Formazin Nephelometric Units (FNU) from ISO 7027 and Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU) from USEPA Meth...
51. ...to develop water quality standards for water bodies. (States may also publish their own criteria.) Some states have promulgated water quality standards for turbidity, including: Published analytical **test** methods for turbidity include: Turbidity is commonly treated using a settling or filtration process, or both settling and filtration. Depending on the application, flocculants may be dosed into the w...
52. ...roved "reference-listed drug" and proving that it can manufacture the drug safely and consistently. For an ANDA to be approved, the FDA requires that the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean **test**/reference ratios for the total drug exposure (represented by the area under the curve or AUC) and the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) should fall within limits of 80–125%. (This range is part of...
53. ...in a population, when the level of exposure is not sufficient to cause premature mortality due to short-term toxic effects. The maximum dose is used, rather than a lower dose, to reduce the number of **test** subjects (and, among other things, the cost of testing), to detect an effect that might occur only rarely. This type of analysis is also used in establishing chemical residue tolerances in foods. Max...
54. ...afety and efficacy. However, some statistical burdens are lessened to maintain development momentum. For example, orphan drug regulations generally acknowledge the fact that it may not be possible to **test** 1,000 patients in a phase III clinical trial if fewer than that number are affected by the disease. Government intervention on behalf of orphan drug development takes several forms: A 2015 study of "...
55. ...on is called a 'herbal formula'. There are, generally speaking, three types of herbal formulas used in TCM: 1. Classic Formulas - these are formulas which TCM practitioners believe have withstood the **test** of time over the centuries, and are mentioned in classical texts, such as the Shanghan Lun. 2. Patent Formulas - these are either classic formulas, or newer commonly-used formulas created in recent d...
56. ...number of tests, such as Tc in autoradiography and nuclear medicine, including single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET) and scintigraphy. The urea breath **test** for helicobacter pylori commonly used a dose of C labeled urea to detect h. pylori infection. If the labeled urea was metabolized by h. pylori in the stomach, the patient's breath would contain label...
57. ...dic soil of low organic matter, to 60 pounds per acre for a soil with high organic matter, high cation exchange capacity and high pH. Application rates should be limited to a few pounds per acre in a **test** plot to determine if boron is needed generally. Otherwise, testing for boron levels in plant material is required to determine remedies. Excess boron can be removed by irrigation and assisted by appl...
58. ...ent of biopharmaceutical agents. The scope of activities of Lab Solutions included laboratory chemicals and other materials for research, science and industry, products and services for sampling, and **test** kits for the pharmaceutical, foods and diagnostics industries, along with products, consumables and services surrounding highly purified laboratory water for science and industry. Process Solutions f...
59. ...heir development was arrested). The authors argue that the worms were using ethanol as an alternative energy source in the absence of other nutrition, or had initiated a stress response. They did not **test** the effect of ethanol on worms fed a normal diet. In 2010, a paper in the journal "Environmental Toxicology & Chemistry" showed that low doses of methylmercury, a potent neurotoxic pollutant, improve...
60. ...BPLEX was renamed to the NAPLEX. California recognized the NAPLEX in 2004. Until 1997, the examination was in a paper and pencil format utilized since 1976 which was replaced with a computer-adaptive **test** administered at contracted testing centers. The NAPLEX is exclusively a computer-administered exam. After receiving an authorization to test from NABP, applicants must register with an official testi...
61. ...zed since 1976 which was replaced with a computer-adaptive test administered at contracted testing centers. The NAPLEX is exclusively a computer-administered exam. After receiving an authorization to **test** from NABP, applicants must register with an official testing facility, such as Pearson VUE, at least two business days in advance to schedule a testing appointment. The NABP's announcement of updates...
62. ...00 are used to tabulate the applicant's score. The remaining questions are "trial balloon" questions under consideration for inclusion on future NAPLEX tests. There is no way to distinguish a regular **test** question from a trial balloon question. As of March 2024, the NAPLEX exam fee increased from $475 to $520.  Prior to the changes in November 2016, the NAPLEX exam was presented as a computer adaptive...
63. ...eased from $475 to $520.  Prior to the changes in November 2016, the NAPLEX exam was presented as a computer adaptive exam in which the delivery of questions was modified based on the response of the **test** taker and questions on a specific subject may have increased or decreased in difficulty as the test progressed. The new exam is a pre-assembled linear format (standardized delivery for all test-taker...
64. ...computer adaptive exam in which the delivery of questions was modified based on the response of the test taker and questions on a specific subject may have increased or decreased in difficulty as the **test** progressed. The new exam is a pre-assembled linear format (standardized delivery for all test-takers) and will no longer adjust the exam based on user responses. There are several question types on t...
65. ...f the test taker and questions on a specific subject may have increased or decreased in difficulty as the test progressed. The new exam is a pre-assembled linear format (standardized delivery for all **test**-takers) and will no longer adjust the exam based on user responses. There are several question types on the NAPLEX: multiple choice, select all that apply, point and click (to select a place on a pic...
66. ...ion of rainbowfish ("Melanotaenia" spp.) schools. These fish demonstrate an individual eye preference when examining their reflection in a mirror. Fish which show a right-eye preference in the mirror **test** prefer to be on the left side of the school. Conversely, fish that show a left-eye preference in the mirror test or were non-lateralised, prefer to be slightly to the right side of the school. The be...
67. ...ing their reflection in a mirror. Fish which show a right-eye preference in the mirror test prefer to be on the left side of the school. Conversely, fish that show a left-eye preference in the mirror **test** or were non-lateralised, prefer to be slightly to the right side of the school. The behaviour depends on the species and sex of the school. Three species of toads, the common toad ("Bufo bufo"), gree...
68. ...s for Pharm.D is 12-years of schooling or HSSC (Higher Secondary School Certificate) in pre-medical subjects (Biology, Chemistry and Physics etc.) or A-levels in similar subjects. Passing an aptitude **test** is mandatory for getting admission into Pharm.D program. As compared to B.Pharm., Pharm.D is a more clinical and research oriented program. Some pharmacy institutes have collaboration with hospitals...
69. ...erated track) professional doctorate. Acceptance to a Pharm.D. program is competitive. Along with excellent natural science grades, most schools require students to take a pharmacy college admissions **test** (PCAT) and complete 90 credit hours of university coursework in the sciences, mathematics, composition, and humanities before entry into the Pharm.D. program. Due to the extensive admission requireme...
70. ...rom. Medicare normally accepts the doctor's assertion that the condition exists as sufficient. For a written Authority however, evidence of diagnosis and patient eligibility criteria such a pathology **test** results are usually required. Some drugs may have Authority Required (Streamlined) status which does not require an explicit approval from Medicare, instead the doctor can use the Authority code foun...
71. ...tion were removed from the PBS, including Panadol Osteo, aspirin, iron/folic supplements, electrolytes, and laxatives. Other medications include medication for reflux, skin allergies, antacids, urine **test** strips, and Vitamin B12 injections. The change is expected to save approximately $87 million a year. Medical practitioners, dentists, optometrists, midwives and nurse practitioners who are registered...
72. ...xample, "leave one-out" cross-validation generally leads to an overestimation of predictive capacity. Even with external validation, it is difficult to determine whether the selection of training and **test** sets was manipulated to maximize the predictive capacity of the model being published. Different aspects of validation of QSAR models that need attention include methods of selection of training set...
73. ...deal gas constant, and formula_2 is the (number) average molecular weight between two adjacent cross-linking points. formula_2 can be calculated from the swell ratio, "Q", which is relatively easy to **test** and measure. For the swollen state, a perfect gel network can be modeled as: formula_4 In a simple uniaxial extension or compression test, the true stress, formula_5, and engineering stress, formula_...
74. ...ulated from the swell ratio, "Q", which is relatively easy to test and measure. For the swollen state, a perfect gel network can be modeled as: formula_4 In a simple uniaxial extension or compression **test**, the true stress, formula_5, and engineering stress, formula_6, can be calculated as: formula_7 formula_8 where formula_9 is the stretch. For hydrogels, their elasticity comes from the solid polymer...
75. ...have either 96, 192, 384, 1536, 3456 or 6144 wells. These are all multiples of 96, reflecting the original 96-well microplate with spaced wells of 8 x 12 with 9 mm spacing. Most of the wells contain **test** items, depending on the nature of the experiment. These could be different chemical compounds dissolved e.g. in an aqueous solution of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). The wells could also contain cells or...
76. ...g, incubation, and finally readout or detection. An HTS system can usually prepare, incubate, and analyze many plates simultaneously, further speeding the data-collection process. HTS robots that can **test** up to 100,000 compounds per day currently exist. Automatic colony pickers pick thousands of microbial colonies for high throughput genetic screening. The term uHTS or "ultra-high-throughput screening...
77. ...als (90% CI) of the ratios for AUC and "C" between the two preparations lie in the range 80–125%. The FDA considers two products bioequivalent if the 90% CI of the relative mean C, AUC and AUC of the **test** (e.g. generic formulation) to reference (e.g. innovator brand formulation) should be within 80% to 125% in the fasting state. Although there are a few exceptions, generally a bioequivalent comparison...
78. ...g. generic formulation) to reference (e.g. innovator brand formulation) should be within 80% to 125% in the fasting state. Although there are a few exceptions, generally a bioequivalent comparison of **Test** to Reference formulations also requires administration after an appropriate meal at a specified time before taking the drug, a so-called "fed" or "food-effect" study. A food-effect study requires the...
79. .... Since 2019, National Centralized Volume-Based Procurement uses "passes generic-consistency evalulation" as one of the bidding criteria. The Chinese definition of "bioequivalence" entails having the **test** drug's geometric mean C, AUC, and AUC fall into 80%–125% of the reference drug in both fasting and fed states. The reference drug should be preferably the original brand-name drug, then (if not avail...
80. ...ts of different brands of bupropion. The People's Pharmacy received multiple reports of increased side effects and decreased efficacy of generic bupropion, which prompted it to ask ConsumerLab.com to **test** the products in question. The tests showed that some generic versions of Wellbutrin XL 300 mg didn't perform the same as the brand-name pill in laboratory tests. The FDA investigated these complaints...
81. ...al years of denying patient reports, in 2012 the FDA reversed this opinion, announcing that "Budeprion XL 300 mg fails to demonstrate therapeutic equivalence to Wellbutrin XL 300 mg." The FDA did not **test** the bioequivalence of any of the other generic versions of Wellbutrin XL 300 mg, but requested that the four manufacturers submit data on this question to the FDA by March 2013. As of October 2013, t...
82. ...nical Pharmacology and Therapeutics) with simultaneous posting to cpicpgx.org, where they are regularly updated." The CPIC guidelines are "designed to help clinicians understand HOW available genetic **test** results should be used to optimize drug therapy, rather than WHETHER tests should be ordered. A key assumption underlying the CPIC guidelines is that clinical high-throughput and pre-emptive (pre-pre...
83. ...ghput and pre-emptive (pre-prescription) genotyping will become more widespread, and that clinicians will be faced with having patients’ genotypes available even if they have not explicitly ordered a **test** with a specific drug in mind. CPIC's guidelines, processes and projects have been endorsed by several professional societies." In February 2020 the FDA published the Table of Pharmacogenetic Associat...
84. ...clinically actionable gene-drug associations and genotype-phenotype relationships." There are many commercial laboratories around the world who offer pharmacogenomic testing as a laboratory developed **test** (LDTs). The tests offered can vary significantly from one lab to another, including genes and alleles tested for, phenotype assignment, and any clinical annotations provided. With the exception of a...
85. ...all pharmacogenetic testing requires an order from an authorized healthcare professional. In order for the results to be used in a clinical setting in the United States, the laboratory performing the **test** much be CLIA-certified. Other regulations may vary by country and state. Direct-to-consumer (DTC) pharmacogenetic tests allow consumers to obtain pharmacogenetic testing without an order from a presc...
86. ...C) pharmacogenetic tests allow consumers to obtain pharmacogenetic testing without an order from a prescriber. DTC pharmacogenetic tests are generally reviewed by the FDA to determine the validity of **test** claims. The FDA maintains a list of DTC genetic tests that have been approved. There are multiple ways to represent a pharmacogenomic genotype. A commonly used nomenclature system is to report haplot...
87. ...nce SNP cluster ID (rsID) or based on the location of the base pair or amino acid impacted. In 2017 CPIC published results of an expert survey to standardize terms related to clinical pharmacogenetic **test** results. Consensus for terms to describe allele functional status, phenotype for drug metabolizing enzymes, phenotype for drug transporters, and phenotype for high-risk genotype status was reached. T...
88. ...care givers to better manage medication selection and side effect amelioration. Pharmacogenomics is also known as companion diagnostics, meaning tests being bundled with drugs. Examples include KRAS **test** with cetuximab and EGFR test with gefitinib. Beside efficacy, germline pharmacogenetics can help to identify patients likely to undergo severe toxicities when given cytotoxics showing impaired detoxi...
89. ...medication selection and side effect amelioration. Pharmacogenomics is also known as companion diagnostics, meaning tests being bundled with drugs. Examples include KRAS test with cetuximab and EGFR **test** with gefitinib. Beside efficacy, germline pharmacogenetics can help to identify patients likely to undergo severe toxicities when given cytotoxics showing impaired detoxification in relation with gen...
90. ...Europe and the Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) in the United States. In a 2017 survey of European clinicians, in the prior year two-thirds had not ordered a pharmacogenetic **test**. In 2010, Vanderbilt University Medical Center launched Pharmacogenomic Resource for Enhanced Decisions in Care and Treatment (PREDICT); in 2015 survey, two-thirds of the clinicians had ordered a pha...
91. ...nderbilt University Medical Center launched Pharmacogenomic Resource for Enhanced Decisions in Care and Treatment (PREDICT); in 2015 survey, two-thirds of the clinicians had ordered a pharmacogenetic **test**. In 2019, the largest private health insurer, UnitedHealthcare, announced that it would pay for genetic testing to predict response to psychiatric drugs. In 2020, Canada's 4th largest health and dent...
92. ...course of 8 months, patient A gradually experienced more weight gain and sedation, and developed difficulty with their gait, stiffness, cogwheeling and dyskinetic ocular movements. A pharmacogenomics **test** later proved the patient had a CYP2D6 *1/*41, which has a predicted phenotype of IM and CYP2C19 *1/*2 with a predicted phenotype of IM as well. "Case B – Pain Management" Patient B is a woman who gav...
93. ...recommended that she discontinue codeine use. Within a few days, both the patient's and her infant's symptoms were no longer present. It is assumed that if the patient had undergone a pharmacogenomic **test**, it would have revealed she may have had a duplication of the gene CYP2D6, placing her in the Ultra-rapid metabolizer (UM) category, explaining her reactions to codeine use. "Case C – FDA Warning on...
94. ..., several challenges exist that slow the uptake, implementation, and standardization of pharmacogenomics. Some of the concerns raised by physicians include: Issues surrounding the availability of the **test** include: Although other factors contribute to the slow progression of pharmacogenomics (such as developing guidelines for clinical use), the above factors appear to be the most prevalent. Increasingl...
95. ...tical twins sharing remarkable similarities in drug response compared to fraternal twins. The term pharmacogenomics first began appearing around the 1990s. The first FDA approval of a pharmacogenetic **test** was in 2005 (for alleles in "CYP2D6" and "CYP2C19") Computational advances have enabled cheaper and faster sequencing. Research has focused on combinatorial chemistry, genomic mining, omic technologi...
96. ...ational advances have enabled cheaper and faster sequencing. Research has focused on combinatorial chemistry, genomic mining, omic technologies, and high throughput screening. As the cost per genetic **test** decreases, the development of personalized drug therapies will increase. Technology now allows for genetic analysis of hundreds of target genes involved in medication metabolism and response in less...
97. ...elor to discuss the results. Pharmacogenetics has become a controversial issue in the area of bioethics. Privacy and confidentiality are major concerns. The evidence of benefit or risk from a genetic **test** may only be suggestive, which could cause dilemmas for providers. Drug development may be affected, with rare genetic variants possibly receiving less research. Access and patient autonomy are also o...
98. ...able nozzle and the patient's skin. After each injection the cap would be discarded and replaced with a sterile one. These devices were known as protector cap needle-free injectors or PCNFI. A safety **test** by Kelly and colleagues (2008) found a PCNFI device failed to prevent contamination. After administering injections to hepatitis B patients, researchers found hepatitis B had penetrated the protectiv...
99. ...rs and inhibitors of CYP2D6. Where classes of agents are listed, there may be exceptions within the class. Inhibitors of CYP2D6 can be classified by their potency, such as: Pharmacy College Admission **Test** The Pharmacy College Admission Test (PCAT) was a computer-based standardized test administered to prospective pharmacy school students by Pearson Education, Inc as a service for the American Associat...
100. ...lasses of agents are listed, there may be exceptions within the class. Inhibitors of CYP2D6 can be classified by their potency, such as: Pharmacy College Admission Test The Pharmacy College Admission **Test** (PCAT) was a computer-based standardized test administered to prospective pharmacy school students by Pearson Education, Inc as a service for the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy (AACP);...
101. ...ptions within the class. Inhibitors of CYP2D6 can be classified by their potency, such as: Pharmacy College Admission Test The Pharmacy College Admission Test (PCAT) was a computer-based standardized **test** administered to prospective pharmacy school students by Pearson Education, Inc as a service for the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy (AACP); it is offered in January, July, and September....
102. ...nistered to prospective pharmacy school students by Pearson Education, Inc as a service for the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy (AACP); it is offered in January, July, and September. The **test** is divided into five sections to be taken in approximately three and a half hours. The test includes Writing, Biology, Chemistry, Critical reading, and Quantitative Reasoning sections. The composite...
103. ...the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy (AACP); it is offered in January, July, and September. The test is divided into five sections to be taken in approximately three and a half hours. The **test** includes Writing, Biology, Chemistry, Critical reading, and Quantitative Reasoning sections. The composite score is based on the multiple-choice sections, and can range from 200 – 600. There is no pa...
104. ...00. There is no passing score; pharmacy schools set their own standards for acceptable scores. Calculators are not allowed during the testing period and no penalty is given for incorrect answers. The **test** was retired effective January 10, 2024. In silico In biology and other experimental sciences, an in silico experiment is one performed on a computer or via computer simulation software. The phrase is...
105. ..."in silico". Fifty percent of the molecules were later shown to be active inhibitors "in vitro". This approach differs from use of expensive high-throughput screening (HTS) robotic labs to physically **test** thousands of diverse compounds a day, often with an expected hit rate on the order of 1% or less, with still fewer expected to be real leads following further testing (see drug discovery). As an exam...
106. ...it is well accepted in pharmacology that it is impossible to accurately predict the side effects or clinical effects of a combination of drugs without studying that particular combination of drugs in **test** subjects. Knowledge of the pharmacologic profiles of the individual drugs in question does not assure accurate prediction of the side effects of combinations of those drugs; and effects also vary amo...
107. ...stus Owsley Stanley III, usually known simply as Owsley or Bear. The former chemistry student set up a private LSD lab in the mid-60s in San Francisco and supplied the LSD consumed at the famous Acid **Test** parties held by Ken Kesey and his Merry Pranksters, as well as the Human Be-In in San Francisco in January 1967 and the Monterey International Pop Festival in June 1967. He also had close social conn...
108. ...rescent paint, strobes and other "psychedelic" effects, and, of course, LSD. These parties were noted in some of Allen Ginsberg's poems and are also described in the books "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid **Test**" by Tom Wolfe, "" by Hunter S. Thompson, and "Freewheelin Frank, Secretary of the Hell's Angels" by Frank Reynolds. Ken Kesey was also said to have experimented with LSD with Ringo Starr in 1965 and...
109. ...esey participated in drug trials and liked what they saw. Tom Wolfe wrote a widely read account of the early days of LSD's entrance into the non-academic world in his book "The Electric Kool Aid Acid **Test**", which documented the cross-country, acid-fueled voyage of Kesey and the Merry Pranksters on the psychedelic bus "Furthur" and the Pranksters' later 'Acid Test' LSD parties. In 1965, Sandoz laborato...
110. ...n his book "The Electric Kool Aid Acid Test", which documented the cross-country, acid-fueled voyage of Kesey and the Merry Pranksters on the psychedelic bus "Furthur" and the Pranksters' later 'Acid **Test**' LSD parties. In 1965, Sandoz laboratories stopped its still legal shipments of LSD to the United States for research and psychiatric use, after a request from the U.S. government concerned about its...
111. ...at Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters' Acid Tests. These free-form parties introduced many people on the West Coast to LSD for the first time, as documented in Tom Wolfe's "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid **Test**" and Phil Lesh's "Searching for the Sound". Acid historian Jesse Jarnow describes how Grateful Dead concerts served as the United States' primary distribution network for LSD in the second half of th...
112. ...e, such as fibers or granular media, are mounted as a porous plug to provide a pore network, which serves as capillaries for the streaming potential measurement. Upon the application of pressure on a **test** solution, liquid starts to flow and to generate an electric potential. This streaming potential is related to the pressure gradient between the ends of either a single flow channel (for samples with...
113. ...stem, consisting of: In the United States, similar measures in use were once:  The cited book states, "In almost all cases the modern teacups, tablespoons, dessertspoons, and teaspoons, after careful **test** by the author, were found to average 25 percent greater capacity than the theoretical quantities given above, and thus the use of accurately graduated medicine glasses, which may be had now at a trif...
114. ...rmacovigilance agreements, as well as other sources such as the medical literature, plays a critical role in providing the data necessary for pharmacovigilance to take place. In order to market or to **test** a pharmaceutical product in most countries, adverse event data received by the license holder (usually a pharmaceutical company) must be submitted to the local drug regulatory authority. "(See Advers...
115. ...event is found during a clinical study or large databases are used. Both methods have difficulties and can be fraught with error. Even in clinical studies, some ADRs may be missed as large numbers of **test** individuals are required to find a specific adverse drug reaction, especially for rare ADRs. Psychiatric ADRs are often missed as they are grouped together in the questionnaires used to assess the po...
116. ...k physician Galen (129 – c. AD 216) and not on experimentation. In around the 17th century physicians started to apply use methods to study traditional remedies, although they still lacked methods to **test** the hypotheses they had about how drugs worked. By the late 18th century and early 19th century, methods of experimental physiology and pharmacology began to be developed by scientists such as Franço...
117. ...the complete history of the candidate drug. Among facts needed for the application are: Exceptions to this process include voter driven initiatives for medical marijuana in certain states. To legally **test** the drug on human subjects in the United States, the maker must first obtain an Investigational New Drug (IND) designation from FDA. This application is based on nonclinical data, typically from a co...
118. ...w Drug (IND) designation from FDA. This application is based on nonclinical data, typically from a combination of in vivo and in vitro laboratory safety studies, that shows the drug is safe enough to **test** in humans. Often the "new" drugs that are submitted for approval include new molecular entities or old medications that have been chemically modified to elicit differential pharmacological effects or...
119. ...by the experimentalist. There are two fundamental differences between the methods. One is that molecular cloning involves replication of the DNA within a living cell, while PCR replicates DNA in the **test** tube, free of living cells. The other difference is that cloning involves cutting and pasting DNA sequences, while PCR amplifies by copying an existing sequence. Formation of recombinant DNA requires...
120. ...e, behavior and metabolism are usually unchanged, and the only way to demonstrate the presence of recombinant sequences is to examine the DNA itself, typically using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) **test**. Significant exceptions exist, and are discussed below. If the rDNA sequences encode a gene that is expressed, then the presence of RNA and/or protein products of the recombinant gene can be detected...
121. ...apy options against certain cancer types, infections and autoimmune diseases. Each of the three widely used methods for diagnosing HIV infection has been developed using recombinant DNA. The antibody **test** (ELISA or western blot) uses a recombinant HIV protein to test for the presence of antibodies that the body has produced in response to an HIV infection. The DNA test looks for the presence of HIV ge...
122. ...mune diseases. Each of the three widely used methods for diagnosing HIV infection has been developed using recombinant DNA. The antibody test (ELISA or western blot) uses a recombinant HIV protein to **test** for the presence of antibodies that the body has produced in response to an HIV infection. The DNA test looks for the presence of HIV genetic material using reverse transcription polymerase chain rea...
123. ...ng recombinant DNA. The antibody test (ELISA or western blot) uses a recombinant HIV protein to test for the presence of antibodies that the body has produced in response to an HIV infection. The DNA **test** looks for the presence of HIV genetic material using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Development of the RT-PCR test was made possible by the molecular cloning and sequence a...
124. ...ody has produced in response to an HIV infection. The DNA test looks for the presence of HIV genetic material using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Development of the RT-PCR **test** was made possible by the molecular cloning and sequence analysis of HIV genomes. HIV testing page from US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Golden rice is a recombinant variety of rice that has been...
125. ...rivers. The reduction reaction is analogous to the iodine reduction reaction. In pH testing of bleach substances, sodium thiosulfate neutralizes the color-removing effects of bleach and allows one to **test** the pH of bleach solutions with liquid indicators. The relevant reaction is akin to the iodine reaction: thiosulfate reduces the hypochlorite (the active ingredient in bleach) and in so doing becomes...
126. ...as a titrant in iodometry. is also a component of iodine clock experiments. This particular use can be set up to measure the oxygen content of water through a long series of reactions in the Winkler **test** for dissolved oxygen. It is also used in estimating volumetrically the concentrations of certain compounds in solution (hydrogen peroxide, for instance) and in estimating the chlorine content in comm...
127. ...antly THC-COOH, while hair, oral fluid and sweat contain primarily THC. Blood may contain both substances, with the relative amounts dependent on the recency and extent of usage. The Duquenois–Levine **test** is commonly used as a screening test in the field, but it cannot definitively confirm the presence of cannabis, as a large range of substances have been shown to give false positives. Researchers at...
128. ...d and sweat contain primarily THC. Blood may contain both substances, with the relative amounts dependent on the recency and extent of usage. The Duquenois–Levine test is commonly used as a screening **test** in the field, but it cannot definitively confirm the presence of cannabis, as a large range of substances have been shown to give false positives. Researchers at John Jay College of Criminal Justice...
129. ...ly given in terms of molar concentration (mol/L, or M), thus requiring IC in units of M. The IC terminology is also used for some behavioral measures in vivo, such as the two bottle fluid consumption **test**. When animals decrease consumption from the drug-laced water bottle, the concentration of the drug that results in a 50% decrease in consumption is considered the IC for fluid consumption of that dru...
130. ...NCI and guided development of new drugs. In the two decades that followed the establishment of the NCCSC, a large network of cooperative clinical trial groups evolved under the auspices of the NCI to **test** anticancer agents. Zubrod had a particular interest in natural products, and established a broad programme for collecting and testing plant and marine sources, a controversial programme that led to t...
131. ...sks of serious harm, or if the treatment was unethical for a healthy participant (for example, chemotherapy drugs or a new method of appendectomy - surgical removal of the appendix). Most drug trials **test** both the control and the treatment on both healthy and "diseased" participants. Or, if the treatment's purpose is to prevent a condition that is fairly common (an anticoagulant to prevent heart attac...
132. ..."British Pharmacopoeia" comprises six volumes, which contain nearly 3,000 monographs for drug substances, excipients, and formulated preparation, together with supporting general notices, appendices (**test** methods, reagents etc.), and reference spectra, used in the practice of medicine, all comprehensively indexed and cross-referenced for easy reference. Items used exclusively in veterinary medicine in...
133. ...their innovations. He is also a member of the Xconomists, an ad hoc team of editorial advisors for the tech news and media company, Xconomy. Drug reaction testing Drug reaction testing uses a genetic **test** to predict how a particular person will respond to various prescription and non-prescription medications. It checks for genes that code for specific liver enzymes which activate, deactivate, or are i...
134. ...C9, 2C19, and 1A2. This testing has been done for some time by drug companies working on new drugs, but is relatively newly available to the general public. Strattera is the first drug to mention the **test** in the official documentation, although it doesn't specifically recommend that patients get the test before taking the medication. There are four possible categories for each marker: poor metabolizer...
135. ...ut is relatively newly available to the general public. Strattera is the first drug to mention the test in the official documentation, although it doesn't specifically recommend that patients get the **test** before taking the medication. There are four possible categories for each marker: poor metabolizer, intermediate metabolizer, extensive metabolizer, or ultra-extensive metabolizer. Different testing...
136. ...a difference greater than zero between interventions (superiority trials) and trials intended to show non-inferiority. Non-inferiority trials attempt to rule out some margin of inferiority between a **test** and control intervention i.e. rule out that the test intervention is no worse than the control intervention by a chosen amount. If a trial intended to demonstrate efficacy by showing superiority of a...
137. ...(superiority trials) and trials intended to show non-inferiority. Non-inferiority trials attempt to rule out some margin of inferiority between a test and control intervention i.e. rule out that the **test** intervention is no worse than the control intervention by a chosen amount. If a trial intended to demonstrate efficacy by showing superiority of a test intervention to control lacks assay sensitivity...
138. ...and control intervention i.e. rule out that the test intervention is no worse than the control intervention by a chosen amount. If a trial intended to demonstrate efficacy by showing superiority of a **test** intervention to control lacks assay sensitivity, it will fail to show that the test intervention is superior and will fail to lead to a conclusion of efficacy. In contrast, if a trial intended to dem...
139. ...he control intervention by a chosen amount. If a trial intended to demonstrate efficacy by showing superiority of a test intervention to control lacks assay sensitivity, it will fail to show that the **test** intervention is superior and will fail to lead to a conclusion of efficacy. In contrast, if a trial intended to demonstrate efficacy by showing a test intervention is non-inferior to an active contro...
140. ...assay sensitivity, it will fail to show that the test intervention is superior and will fail to lead to a conclusion of efficacy. In contrast, if a trial intended to demonstrate efficacy by showing a **test** intervention is non-inferior to an active control lacks assay sensitivity, the trial may find an ineffective intervention to be non-inferior and could lead to an erroneous conclusion of efficacy.  Wh...
141. ...ucible evidence from previous superiority trials of an effect size of 10% for a control intervention compared to placebo, an appropriately designed non-inferiority trial designed to rule out that the **test** intervention may be as much as 5% less effective than the control would have assay sensitivity. On the other hand, with this same data, a noninferiority trial designed to rule out that the test inter...
142. ...t the test intervention may be as much as 5% less effective than the control would have assay sensitivity. On the other hand, with this same data, a noninferiority trial designed to rule out that the **test** intervention may be as much as 15% less effective than the control may not have assay sensitivity, since this trial would not ensure that the test intervention is any more effective than a placebo gi...
143. ...a noninferiority trial designed to rule out that the test intervention may be as much as 15% less effective than the control may not have assay sensitivity, since this trial would not ensure that the **test** intervention is any more effective than a placebo given that the effect ruled out is larger than the effect of the control compared to placebo. The choice of the margin is sometimes problematic in no...
144. ...e used off-label (for non-approved indications), it still is required to be approved for a specific disease or medical condition. Drug companies seeking to sell a drug in the United States must first **test** it. The company then sends the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) evidence from these tests to prove the drug is safe and effective for its intended use. A...
145. ...ny's data and proposed labeling. If this independent and unbiased review establishes that a drug's health benefits outweigh its known risks, the drug is approved for sale. The center doesn't actually **test** drugs itself, although it does conduct limited research in the areas of drug quality, safety, and effectiveness standards. As of the end of 2013, the FDA and its predecessors had approved 1,452 drugs...
146. ...sible docked conformations for ligands that do not bind. This gives a large number of false positive hits, i.e., ligands predicted to bind to the protein that actually don't when placed together in a **test** tube. One way to reduce the number of false positives is to recalculate the energy of the top scoring poses using (potentially) more accurate but computationally more intensive techniques such as Gen...
147. ...nology owned by the company Advanced Materials Manufacturing. A plate less than one inch thick has enough resistance to turn a .30-06 Springfield standard-issue M2 armour-piercing bullet to dust. The **test** plate outperformed a solid metal plate of similar thickness, while weighing far less. Other potential applications include nuclear waste (shielding X-rays, gamma rays and neutron radiation) transfer...
148. ...bide ceramic and aluminium 7075 or Kevlar back panels to fabricate a new composite armour system. This composite armour was tested against NIJ-Type III and Type IV threats using NIJ 0101.06 ballistic **test** standard. The highly functional layer-based design allowed the composite metal foam to absorb the ballistic kinetic energy effectively, where the CMF layer accounted for 60–70% of the total energy ab...
149. ...such novel armour can improve the fuel efficiency of military vehicles without sacrificing the protection of the personnel or the equipment inside. Composite metal foam has been tested in a puncture **test**. Puncture tests were conducted on S-S CMF-CSP with different thicknesses of stainless steel face sheets and CMF core. The bonding of the S-S CMF core and face sheets was done via adhesive bonding and...
150. ...ilities, indicating that CMF can be used to simultaneously increase protections and decrease weight. A 12" x 12" x 0.6" thick 316L steel CMF panel with a weight of 3.545 kg was tested in a torch-fire **test**. In this test, the panel was exposed to over 1204 °C temperatures for 30 minutes. Upon reaching the 30 minutes' time of exposure, the maximum temperature on the unexposed surface of the steel was 400...
151. ...ating that CMF can be used to simultaneously increase protections and decrease weight. A 12" x 12" x 0.6" thick 316L steel CMF panel with a weight of 3.545 kg was tested in a torch-fire test. In this **test**, the panel was exposed to over 1204 °C temperatures for 30 minutes. Upon reaching the 30 minutes' time of exposure, the maximum temperature on the unexposed surface of the steel was 400 °C (752 °F) a...
152. ...was 400 °C (752 °F) at the center of the plate directly above the jet burner. This temperature was well below the required temperature rise limit of 427 °C; therefore, this sample met the torch fire **test** requirements. For reference, a solid piece of equal volume steel used for calibration failed this test in about 4 minutes. It is worth mentioning that the same CMF panel prior to the above-mentioned...
153. ...l below the required temperature rise limit of 427 °C; therefore, this sample met the torch fire test requirements. For reference, a solid piece of equal volume steel used for calibration failed this **test** in about 4 minutes. It is worth mentioning that the same CMF panel prior to the above-mentioned jet fire testing was subjected to a pool-fire test. In this test, the panel was exposed to 827 °C tempe...
154. ...equal volume steel used for calibration failed this test in about 4 minutes. It is worth mentioning that the same CMF panel prior to the above-mentioned jet fire testing was subjected to a pool-fire **test**. In this test, the panel was exposed to 827 °C temperatures for 100 minutes. The panel withstood the extreme temperature for 100 minutes with ease, reaching a maximum backface temperature of 379 °C,...
155. ...steel used for calibration failed this test in about 4 minutes. It is worth mentioning that the same CMF panel prior to the above-mentioned jet fire testing was subjected to a pool-fire test. In this **test**, the panel was exposed to 827 °C temperatures for 100 minutes. The panel withstood the extreme temperature for 100 minutes with ease, reaching a maximum backface temperature of 379 °C, far below the...
156. ...for 100 minutes. The panel withstood the extreme temperature for 100 minutes with ease, reaching a maximum backface temperature of 379 °C, far below the 427 °C failure temperature. For reference, the **test** was calibrated using an equal-sized piece of solid steel that failed the test in approximately 13 minutes. These studies indicate the extraordinary performance of CMF against fire and extreme heat. C...
157. ...ith ease, reaching a maximum backface temperature of 379 °C, far below the 427 °C failure temperature. For reference, the test was calibrated using an equal-sized piece of solid steel that failed the **test** in approximately 13 minutes. These studies indicate the extraordinary performance of CMF against fire and extreme heat. Composite metal foam has a very low rate of heat transfer and has proven to iso...
158. ...andards Committee, and the Therapeutic Substances Standards Committee to advise the Minister for Health on drug regulations. The National Biological Standards Laboratory (NBSL) was created in 1958 to **test** the quality of imported drugs and drugs to be supplied under the PBS. One notable absence from the 1953 legislation was the lack of any penalty for possessing or dealing with a sub-standard therapeut...
159. ...es significantly to water in such substances. Dry seeds germinate in part by imbibition. Imbibition can also control circadian rhythms in "Arabidopsis thaliana" and (probably) other plants. The Amott **test** employs imbibition. Proteins have high imbibition capacities, so proteinaceous pea seeds swell more than starchy wheat seeds. Imbibition of water increases imbibant volume, which results in imbibitio...
160. ...conditions in animals and have been observed to slightly reduce the minimum tanning dose in humans. Some examples of photosensitizing medications (both investigatory and approved for human use) are: **Test** data exclusivity Test data exclusivity refers to protection of clinical trial data required to be submitted to a regulatory agency to prove safety and efficacy of a new drug, and prevention of generi...
161. ...and have been observed to slightly reduce the minimum tanning dose in humans. Some examples of photosensitizing medications (both investigatory and approved for human use) are: Test data exclusivity **Test** data exclusivity refers to protection of clinical trial data required to be submitted to a regulatory agency to prove safety and efficacy of a new drug, and prevention of generic drug manufacturers f...
162. ...eric drug manufacturers from relying on this data in their own applications. It provides a form of market exclusivity outside that provided by patent rights. Pharmaceutical companies argue that since **test** data is so expensive to produce, it is an unfair advantage to let other companies rely on that data without cost. Critics charge that it can act as a restriction to producing a generic copy; that alt...
163. ...arch ethics. Specifically, it is considered unethical under the Declaration of Helsinki to undertake duplicative clinical trials on human subjects. Similar concerns have been raised in the context of **test** data protection for certain agricultural or cosmetic products, leading in some countries to proposals for cost sharing rather than exclusive rights as the form of test data protection. Medicare Part...
164. ...e been raised in the context of test data protection for certain agricultural or cosmetic products, leading in some countries to proposals for cost sharing rather than exclusive rights as the form of **test** data protection. Medicare Part D Medicare Part D, also called the Medicare prescription drug benefit, is an optional United States federal-government program to help Medicare beneficiaries pay for se...
165. ...iscourage enrollment by certain Medicare beneficiaries. Part D plans that follow the formulary classes and categories established by the United States Pharmacopoeia will pass the first discrimination **test**. Plans can change the drugs on their formulary during the course of the year with 60 days' notice to affected parties. The primary differences between the formularies of different Part D plans relate...
166. ...n the past three years 2015–2017, there were 35 FDA warning letters to Chinese pharmaceutical companies citing serious Data Integrity issues, including data deletion or manipulation or fabrication of **test** results, see "An Analysis of 2017 FDA Warning Letters on Data Integrity" By Barbara Unger, Unger Consulting Inc. An Analysis Of 2017 FDA Warning Letters On Data Integrity See the long list of Chinese...
167. ...magnetic resonance imaging" (fMRI), and "in vitro" studies using selective binding agents on live tissue cultures. These allow neural activity to be monitored and measured in response to a variety of **test** conditions. Other important observational tools include radiological imaging such as "positron emission tomography" (PET) and "single-photon emission computed tomography" (SPECT). These imaging techn...
168. ...cause a patient to hallucinate. However, the fact that many classical psychedelics do in fact have significant affinity for 5HT receptors throws this claim into question. The head twitch response, a **test** used for assessing classical psychedelic activity in rodents, is produced by serotonin itself only in the presence of beta-Arrestins, but is triggered by classical psychedelics independent of beta-Ar...
169. ...samples. The particular choice of experimental conditions and measurements is called an assay. Large screens are expensive in time and resources. Therefore, prior to starting a large screen, smaller **test** (or pilot) screens are used to assess the quality of an assay, in an attempt to predict if it would be useful in a high-throughput setting. The Z-factor is an attempt to quantify the suitability of a...
170. ...hniques do not have adequate resolution. Numerous standard methods are described in ISO, ASTM, BS, DIN etc.—these are quite often industry-specific. Instrument manufacturers are often able to provide **test** methods developed to fully exploit the specific design which they are selling. The search for the most appropriate instrument is a zealous task which is in itself part of the measurement. The conditi...
171. ...at a disease might, theoretically, include from 5,000 to 10,000 chemical compounds. On average about 250 of these show sufficient promise for further evaluation using laboratory tests, mice and other **test** animals. Typically, about ten of these qualify for tests on humans. A study conducted by the Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development covering the 1980s and 1990s found that only 21.5 percent o...
172. ...rer joined the faculty of Harvard Business School in 2012 and has taught courses in strategy and general management to MBA and executive education students.  Sharer co-wrote with Adam Bryant "The CEO **Test**", which was published by Harvard. With his wife, Sharer started the Sharer Foundation, which provides financial and programmatic support to community college students who transfer to a four-year univ...
173. ...ain a type of lipase (enzyme that breaks up lipid molecules); when these species are added to a mixture of polysorbate 80 and phenol red, they cause the solution to change color, so this is used as a **test** to identify the phenotype of a strain or isolate. On RODAC agar plates used in microbiological control, polysorbate 80 counteracts disinfectants often found on sampled surfaces, thereby allowing the...
174. ...hin limits) individual content is outside the limits of 85 to 115% of the average content and none is outside the limits of 75 to 125% of the average content. The preparation fails to comply with the **test** if more than 3 individual contents are outside the limits of 85 to 115% of the average content or if one or more individual contents are outside the limits of 75% to 125% of the average content. Anti...
175. ...ow up functional adult tissues indefinitely in culture through Directed differentiation creates new opportunities for drug research. Researchers are able to grow up differentiated cell lines and then **test** new drugs on each cell type to examine possible interactions "in vitro" before performing "in vivo" studies. This is critical in the development of drugs for use in veterinary research because of the...
176. ...of the commercial. Anacin sponsored the first made-for-television sitcom, "Mary Kay and Johnny". Unsure of how many viewers would be watching when they sponsored the show in 1947, Anacin ran a simple **test**, offering a free mirror to the first 200 viewers to write for one. The offer drew over 9,000 responses, overwhelming the sponsor but proving television was a viable advertising medium. Anacin was als...
177. ...egation rates or cluster properties from such experiments, they can be most valuable for practical applications. Among these techniques settling tests are most relevant. When one inspects a series of **test** tubes with suspensions prepared at different concentration of the flocculant, stable suspensions often remain dispersed, while the unstable ones settle. Automated instruments based on light scatterin...
178. ...to serious complications. A reasonable approach to prescribing medication to any psychiatric patient, regardless of race or culture, is to "start low and go slow". Someday there may be a simple blood **test** to predict how an individual will respond to a specific class of drugs; research in these fields fall in the domain of pharmacogenomics and pharmacometabolomics. Fluorine-18 Fluorine-18 (F, also call...
179. ...quired to pick and use two birth control methods (abstinence included), and must take doctor-administered pregnancy tests in two consecutive months. After the second (confirmatory) negative pregnancy **test**, the patient must also take an online comprehension test to ensure they understand the requirements of the Program. Once those two items are complete, the patient is authorized to receive drug at an...
180. ...nce included), and must take doctor-administered pregnancy tests in two consecutive months. After the second (confirmatory) negative pregnancy test, the patient must also take an online comprehension **test** to ensure they understand the requirements of the Program. Once those two items are complete, the patient is authorized to receive drug at an authorized pharmacy. From the date of the second (confirm...
181. ...the requirements of the Program. Once those two items are complete, the patient is authorized to receive drug at an authorized pharmacy. From the date of the second (confirmatory) negative pregnancy **test**, a patient who can get pregnant has seven days to pick up their prescription. They must see their doctor and take a pregnancy test in each subsequent month in order to get another prescription for th...
182. ...rmacy. From the date of the second (confirmatory) negative pregnancy test, a patient who can get pregnant has seven days to pick up their prescription. They must see their doctor and take a pregnancy **test** in each subsequent month in order to get another prescription for the next 30 days. Patients who cannot get pregnant must see their doctor every month, but don't have to take the pregnancy or compreh...
183. ...otretinoin or violated the standards in other ways, such as failing to inform them of the need to use two forms of birth control or allowing them to substitute a single, less-accurate urine pregnancy **test** conducted in the doctor's office for the two laboratory-conducted blood pregnancy tests mandated by SMART. The FDA also concluded that, considering the voluntary nature of the reporting program and l...
184. ...ain the drug, for that 30-day cycle. Additionally, if a patient who can become pregnant misses their 7-day prescription pick-up window, the patient must return to the prescriber for another pregnancy **test** before being able to get the drug again. This return visit to the doctor, of course, can be inconvenient and costly. To minimize the number of necessary visits to the doctor, a patient would want to...
185. ...in 1989 by a group led by pharmacologist David Bailey. Their first published clinical report on grapefruit drug interactions was in 1991. The effect was first discovered accidentally in 1989, when a **test** of drug interactions with alcohol used grapefruit juice to hide the taste of the ethanol. A 2005 medical review advised patients to avoid all citrus juices until further research clarifies the risks....
186. ...ing citrus while taking their medications. Grapefruit is not the only citrus fruit that can interact with medications. One medical review advised patients to avoid all citrus. There are three ways to **test** if a fruit interacts with drugs: The first approach involves risk to trial volunteers. The first and second approaches have another problem: the same fruit cultivar could be tested twice with differe...
187. ...a bioactive compound (typically a drug) by changing its chemical structure. Medicinal chemists use the techniques of chemical synthesis to insert new chemical groups into the biomedical compound and **test** the modifications for their biological effects. This method was refined to build mathematical relationships between the chemical structure and the biological activity, known as quantitative structure...
188. ...1947.) However, Paul de Kruif's 1926 "Microbe Hunters" notes that Pasteur believed that this was contamination by other bacteria rather than by mould. In 1887, Swiss physician Carl Garré developed a **test** method using glass plate to see bacterial inhibition and found similar results. Using his gelatin-based culture plate, he grew two different species of bacteria and found that their growths were inhi...
189. ...lantic City, New Jersey, on 5 May 1941. Their paper was reported on by William L. Laurence in "The New York Times" and generated great public interest. At Oxford, Charles Fletcher volunteered to find **test** cases for human trials. Elva Akers, an Oxford woman dying from incurable cancer, agreed to be a test subject for the toxicity of penicillin. On 17 January 1941, he intravenously injected her with 100...
190. ...w York Times" and generated great public interest. At Oxford, Charles Fletcher volunteered to find test cases for human trials. Elva Akers, an Oxford woman dying from incurable cancer, agreed to be a **test** subject for the toxicity of penicillin. On 17 January 1941, he intravenously injected her with 100 mg of penicillin. Her temperature briefly rose, but otherwise she had no ill-effects. Florey reckone...
191. ...this final area of distribution and the potential for a drug substances quality to be impacted by extreme temperature exposure. 4.6. Accuracy: Accuracy of an analytical procedure is the closeness of **test** results obtained by that procedure to the true value. The accuracy of an analytical procedure shall be established across its range. 4.7. Precision: The precision of an analytical procedure expresses...
192. ...series of measurements obtained from multiple sampling of the same homogeneous sample under the prescribed conditions. 4.8. Method precision (Repeatability): Method precision carried out on different **test** preparation of a homogenous sample within short interval of time under same experimental conditions. 4.9. Intermediate precision (Ruggedness): Intermediate precision (Ruggedness) expresses within-lab...
193. ...be moulded in plastic, can have other closure systems, such as 'hinge caps' which snap shut when pressed. These are sometimes called flip-tops or snap caps. The bottom of a vial is often flat, unlike **test** tubes, which have usually a rounded bottom, but this is often not the case for small hinge-cap or snap-top vials. The small bottle-shaped vials typically used in laboratories are also known as bijou...
194. ...enotypic assays that lead immediately from screening to target identification. In reverse chemogenomics, small compounds that perturb the function of an enzyme in the context of an in vitro enzymatic **test** will be identified. Once the modulators have been identified, the phenotype induced by the molecule is analyzed in a test on cells or on whole organisms. This method will identify or confirm the role...
195. ...hat perturb the function of an enzyme in the context of an in vitro enzymatic test will be identified. Once the modulators have been identified, the phenotype induced by the molecule is analyzed in a **test** on cells or on whole organisms. This method will identify or confirm the role of the enzyme in the biological response. Reverse chemogenomics used to be virtually identical to the target-based approa...
196. ...People who get a coronary stent usually have more check-ups every three to six months for the first year, but this can vary. They usually do not need to have another coronary angiography, which is a **test** that uses a special dye and X-rays to see the arteries of the heart. If the doctors suspect that the heart disease is getting worse, they can prescribe a stress test, which is a test that measures ho...
197. ...coronary angiography, which is a test that uses a special dye and X-rays to see the arteries of the heart. If the doctors suspect that the heart disease is getting worse, they can prescribe a stress **test**, which is a test that measures how the heart works during physical activity. People who have symptoms or show signs of reduced blood flow to the heart in a stress test may need to have a diagnostic c...
198. ...aphy, which is a test that uses a special dye and X-rays to see the arteries of the heart. If the doctors suspect that the heart disease is getting worse, they can prescribe a stress test, which is a **test** that measures how the heart works during physical activity. People who have symptoms or show signs of reduced blood flow to the heart in a stress test may need to have a diagnostic cardiac re-cathete...
199. ...se, they can prescribe a stress test, which is a test that measures how the heart works during physical activity. People who have symptoms or show signs of reduced blood flow to the heart in a stress **test** may need to have a diagnostic cardiac re-catheterization. After PCI-stenting procedures, physical examinations are important. People who have a high risk of complications or more complex coronary pro...
200. ...hibitor/enzyme complex to show how the molecule is binding to the active site, allowing changes to be made to the inhibitor to optimise binding in a process known as structure-based drug design. This **test** and improve cycle is repeated until a sufficiently potent inhibitor is produced. Context-sensitive half-life Context-sensitive half-life or context sensitive half-time is defined as the time taken fo...
201. ..., and even the study personnel at the company or organization sponsoring the trial. Blinding is breached and true assignments disclosed only after the trial database is finalized. Clinical trials may **test** an unknown procedure or may continue for years, and there is justifiable concern about enrolling participants and exposing them to an unproven treatment without ongoing oversight of the preliminary r...
202. ...of tea, there are possible inconsistencies among epidemiological studies implying beneficial health effects of phenolic antioxidants of green tea blends. The Oxygen Radical Absorbance Capacity (ORAC) **test** is a laboratory indicator of antioxidant potential in foods and dietary supplements. However, ORAC results cannot be confirmed to be physiologically applicable and have been designated as unreliable....
203. ...d PCM combinations are eligible. In some states, it is mandatory to give an additional pharmacy entrance examination to be eligible for the course, the entrance tests can be the state common entrance **test** or, the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (Undergraduate)(NEET). It's also one of the most competitive exams in the world. D.Pharm. (Diploma of Pharmacy) holders are eligible for admission into...
204. ..., it is mandatory to give an additional pharmacy entrance examination to be eligible for the course, the entrance tests can be the state common entrance test or, the National Eligibility cum Entrance **Test** (Undergraduate)(NEET). It's also one of the most competitive exams in the world. D.Pharm. (Diploma of Pharmacy) holders are eligible for admission into B.Pharm. second year directly via a lateral ent...
205. ...one binding mode. Models prioritize compounds for lead discovery. Machine learning algorithms have been widely used in virtual screening approaches. Supervised learning techniques use a training and **test** datasets composed of known active and known inactive compounds. Different ML algorithms have been applied with success in virtual screening strategies, such as recursive partitioning, support vector...
206. ...Ketoprofen anti-inflammatory pharmaceutical, single isomer chiral synthons for use in new anti-viral drugs, a single-isomer levobupivacaine for local anaesthesia, the pre-eminent rapid bioluminescent **test** for bacterial contamination, numerous enzymes and proteins for use in clinical diagnostic tests, as well as stem cell therapies, immunotherapeutics, oncology drugs and respiratory devices. Evans was...
207. ...omosozumab, which was later acquired by Celltech. In 1992, Evans was the founder of Celsis, which was based in Cambridge, UK. It specialised in contamination detectors, which included a revolutionary **test** to detect E.coli in water. Chiroscience became one of the UK's first biotech companies to go public in 1994, when it filed for its initial public offering. Evans remained at the business for another...
208. ...articipating in a clinical trial are held and/or documented in the CRF, including adverse events. The sponsor of the clinical trial develops the CRF to collect the specific data they need in order to **test** their hypotheses or answer their research questions. The size of a CRF can range from a handwritten one-time 'snapshot' of a patient's physical condition to hundreds of pages of electronically captur...
209. ...ams. Candidates interested in MBA (Pharmaceutical Management) and the doctoral programs are further screened by personal interview. The candidates are required to have qualified the Graduate Aptitude **Test** in Engineering (GATE) or now Graduate Pharmacy Aptitude Test (GPAT) in a suitable subject area, although exceptions are allowed for some applicants/programs. Now GATE in Pharmacy discipline has been...
210. ...and the doctoral programs are further screened by personal interview. The candidates are required to have qualified the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) or now Graduate Pharmacy Aptitude **Test** (GPAT) in a suitable subject area, although exceptions are allowed for some applicants/programs. Now GATE in Pharmacy discipline has been replaced by GPAT and pharmacy graduate has to qualify the GPA...
211. ...ctoral program is subject and/or department specific. For doctoral studies, normally the PI has sufficient funding to support the student, but in its absence a fellowship via the National Eligibility **Test** conducted by the University Grants Commission or such student support schemes makes the applicant's case strong. Most masters courses include one-year project work which is in the second year. In thi...
212. ...his explained why Ritalin SR was inferior to twice-daily Ritalin IR, and led to the hypothesis that an ascending pattern of drug delivery was necessary to maintain clinical effect. Trials designed to **test** this hypothesis were successful, and ALZA subsequently developed a modified PPOP design that utilized an overcoat of methylphenidate designed to release immediately and rapidly raise serum levels, fo...
213. ...DA guidance issued in Dec 2008 is that ODT drugs should disintegrate in less than 30 seconds. This practice is under review by the FDA as the fast disintegration time of ODTs makes the disintegration **test** too rigorous for some of the ODT formulations that are commercially available. The processes used to manufacture orally disintegrating tablets include loose compression tabletting, a process which is...
214. ...on. If the drug proves unstable, it will invalidate the results from clinical trials since it would be impossible to know what the administered dose actually was. Stability studies are carried out to **test** whether temperature, humidity, oxidation, or photolysis (ultraviolet light or visible light) have any effect, and the preparation is analysed to see if any degradation products have been formed. Form...
215. ...er SPECT or SPECT/CT machines. The nuclear medicine technique commonly called the bone scan usually uses Tc. It is not to be confused with the "bone density scan", DEXA, which is a low-exposure X-ray **test** measuring bone density to look for osteoporosis and other diseases where bones lose mass without rebuilding activity. The nuclear medicine technique is sensitive to areas of unusual bone rebuilding a...
216. ...of ischemic heart disease. The underlying principle is, under conditions of stress, diseased myocardium receives less blood flow than normal myocardium. MPI is one of several types of cardiac stress **test**. As a nuclear stress test, the average radiation exposure is 9.4 mSv, which when compared with a typical 2 view chest X-ray (.1 mSv) is equivalent to 94 Chest X-rays. Several radiopharmaceuticals and...
217. .... The underlying principle is, under conditions of stress, diseased myocardium receives less blood flow than normal myocardium. MPI is one of several types of cardiac stress test. As a nuclear stress **test**, the average radiation exposure is 9.4 mSv, which when compared with a typical 2 view chest X-ray (.1 mSv) is equivalent to 94 Chest X-rays. Several radiopharmaceuticals and radionuclides may be used...
218. ...art is imaged to evaluate the flow through it, to evaluate coronary artery disease, valvular heart disease, congenital heart diseases, cardiomyopathy, and other cardiac disorders. As a nuclear stress **test**, the average radiation exposure is 9.4 mSv, which when compared with a typical 2 view chest X-ray (.1 mSv) is equivalent to 94 Chest X-Rays. It exposes patients to less radiation than comparable ches...
219. ...l (e.g. positive/negative) or quantitative (e.g. growth). The goal is to relate the response to the dose, usually by interpolation techniques, and in many cases to express the potency/activity of the **test** preparation(s) relative to a standard of known potency/activity. Dilution assays can be direct or indirect. In a direct dilution assay the amount of dose needed to produce a specific (fixed) response...
220. ...assay the dose levels are administered at fixed dose levels, so that the response is a stochastic variable. In some assays, there may be strong reasons for believing that all the constituents of the **test** preparation except one, are without any effect on the studied response of the subjects. An assay of the preparation against a standard preparation of the effective constituent, is then equivalent to...
221. ...ch formula_7 is an error term with expectation 0. formula_4 is usually assumed to be continuous and monotone. In situations where a standard preparation is included it is furthermore assumed that the **test** preparation formula_9 behaves like a dilution (or concentration) of the standard formula_10 where formula_13 is the relative potency of formula_9. This is the fundamental assumption of similarity of...
222. ...y applied model is the probit model where formula_4 is the cumulative normal distribution function, formula_19 and formula_7 follows a binomial distribution. An antibiotic standard (shown in red) and **test** preparation (shown in blue) are applied at three dose levels to sensitive microorganisms on a layer of agar in petri dishes. The stronger the dose the larger the zone of inhibition of growth of the m...
223. ...method of least squares is used to fit two parallel lines to the data. The horizontal distance formula_40 between the two lines (shown in green) serves as an estimate of the potency formula_28 of the **test** preparation relative to the standard. The major statistical software packages do not cover dilution assays although a statistician should not have difficulties to write suitable scripts or macros to...
224. ...larger chemical libraries could be made of several groups of smaller libraries stored in the same location. In the drug discovery process for instance, a wide range of organic chemicals are needed to **test** against models of disease in high-throughput screening. Therefore, most of the chemical synthesis needed to generate chemical libraries in drug discovery is based on organic chemistry. A company that...
225. ...mone produced by the prostate and used as a marker by healthcare providers to evaluate the presence of prostate cancer. Taking saw palmetto can artificially reduce the levels of PSA, interfering with **test** results. Saw palmetto extract has interactions with other medications.  When used in combination with an anticoagulant or anti-platelet drug, saw palmetto extract can increase the risk of bleeding by...
226. ...tics is a subdiscipline of statistics. It is the science of summarizing, collecting, presenting and interpreting data in medical practice, and using them to estimate the magnitude of associations and **test** hypotheses. It has a central role in medical investigations. It not only provides a way of organizing information on a wider and more formal basis than relying on the exchange of anecdotes and person...
227. ...n a class means resistance to all drugs within that class, but a notable exception is rifabutin: Rifampicin-resistance does not always mean rifabutin-resistance, and the laboratory should be asked to **test** for it. It is possible to use only one drug within each drug class. If it is difficult finding five drugs to treat then the clinician can request that high-level INH-resistance be looked for. If the...
228. ...elocity in an air stream (as opposed to water, or some other liquid). "Disadvantages": a bulk sample (about ten grams) must be obtained. It is a fairly time-consuming analytical technique. The actual **test** method has been withdrawn by ASME due to obsolescence. Instrument calibration materials are therefore no longer available. Materials can now be analysed through photoanalysis procedures. Unlike sieve...
229. ...te particle samples from a particle laden gas stream. The mass of each size fraction is determined gravimetrically. The California Air Resources Board Method 501 is currently the most widely accepted **test** method for particle size distribution emissions measurements. The Weibull distribution, now named for Waloddi Weibull was first identified by and first applied by to describe particle size distributi...
230. ...manufacturing, dissolution outcomes are very often one of the criteria used to make product release decisions. The main objective of developing and evaluating an IVIVC is to establish the dissolution **test** as a surrogate for human studies, as stated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Analytical data from drug dissolution testing are sufficient in many cases to establish safety and efficacy of a...
231. ...of anxiolytic drugs, other uses for the drug have been discovered. Due to benzoctamine's ability to tranquilize without causing respiratory depression, scientists are moving forward with studies that **test** its sedative effects in patients with respiratory failure. In one study that used benzoctamine in a clinical setting, researchers showed that the use of benzoctamine for sedation did not result in ch...
232. ...d vaccines are provided for free by the NHS. In the UK, no laws require vaccination of schoolchildren. Children aged 16 and 17 can consent to immunizations without parental consent. Under the Gillick **test**, children under 16 can consent to vaccination over parental objections if they demonstrate a mature understanding of the ramifications of the procedure. In the United States, the Advisory Committee o...
233. ...ested attributes in validation tasks may include, but are not limited to For example, in an HPLC purity analysis of a drug substance, a standard material of the highest purity would be run before the **test** samples. The parameters analyzed might be (for example) % RSD of area counts for triplicate injections or chromatographic parameters checked such as retention time. The HPLC run would be considered v...
234. ...ed might be (for example) % RSD of area counts for triplicate injections or chromatographic parameters checked such as retention time. The HPLC run would be considered valid if the system suitability **test** passes and ensures the subsequent data collected for the unknown analytes are valid. For a longer HPLC run of over 20 samples, an additional system suitability standard (called a "check standard") mi...
235. ...ensures all samples yield acceptable data throughout the run, and not just at the beginning. All system suitability standards must be passed to accept the run.  In a broad way, it usually includes a **test** of ruggedness among inter-collaborators, or a test of robustness within an organization However, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has specifically defined it for its administration, as "Sy...
236. ...ut the run, and not just at the beginning. All system suitability standards must be passed to accept the run.  In a broad way, it usually includes a test of ruggedness among inter-collaborators, or a **test** of robustness within an organization However, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has specifically defined it for its administration, as "System suitability testing is an integral part of man...
237. ...s. The tests are based on the concept that the equipment, electronics, analytical operations and samples to be analyzed constitute an integral system that can be evaluated as such. System suitability **test** parameters to be established for a particular procedure depend on the type of procedure being validated". In some cases of analytical chemistry, a system suitability test could be rather a method spe...
238. ...as such. System suitability test parameters to be established for a particular procedure depend on the type of procedure being validated". In some cases of analytical chemistry, a system suitability **test** could be rather a method specific than universal. Such examples are chromatographic analysis, which is usually media (column, paper or mobile solvent) sensitive However to the date of this writing, t...
239. ...ms is needed. It is wise (and sometimes mandatory) to have formal verification of the performance of the insulated shipping container. Laboratory package testing might include ASTM D3103-07, Standard **Test** Method for Thermal Insulation Performance of Packages, ISTA Guide 5B: Focused Simulation Guide for Thermal Performance Testing of Temperature Controlled Transport Packaging, and others. In addition,...
240. ...echnology contain software for conducting such calculations.  Surface conductivity may refer to the electrical conduction across a solid surface measured by surface probes. Experiments may be done to **test** this material property as in the n-type surface conductivity of p-type. Additionally, surface conductivity is measured in coupled phenomena such as photoconductivity, for example, for the metal oxide...
241. ...rwegian Pharmacy Association is a trade association for Pharmacies located in Norway. It was established in 1881. Notable people include Leif Brendel, secretary-general from 1940 to 1968. Provocation **test** A provocation test, also called a provocation trial or provocation study, is a form of medical clinical trial whereby participants are exposed to either a substance or "thing" that is claimed to prov...
242. ...sociation is a trade association for Pharmacies located in Norway. It was established in 1881. Notable people include Leif Brendel, secretary-general from 1940 to 1968. Provocation test A provocation **test**, also called a provocation trial or provocation study, is a form of medical clinical trial whereby participants are exposed to either a substance or "thing" that is claimed to provoke a response, or...
243. ...eby participants are exposed to either a substance or "thing" that is claimed to provoke a response, or to a sham substance or device that should provoke no response, or a severe exercise as in Erb's **test** for low serum calcium . An example of a provocation test, performed on an individual, is a skin allergy test. Diffusiophoresis and diffusioosmosis Diffusiophoresis is the spontaneous motion of colloi...
244. ...ing" that is claimed to provoke a response, or to a sham substance or device that should provoke no response, or a severe exercise as in Erb's test for low serum calcium . An example of a provocation **test**, performed on an individual, is a skin allergy test. Diffusiophoresis and diffusioosmosis Diffusiophoresis is the spontaneous motion of colloidal particles or molecules in a fluid, induced by a conce...
245. ...sham substance or device that should provoke no response, or a severe exercise as in Erb's test for low serum calcium . An example of a provocation test, performed on an individual, is a skin allergy **test**. Diffusiophoresis and diffusioosmosis Diffusiophoresis is the spontaneous motion of colloidal particles or molecules in a fluid, induced by a concentration gradient of a different substance. In other...
246. ...te function might bind to the catalytically functional zinc ion present at the active site. Later however this was found to be the case. Over 2000 compounds were tested randomly in a guinea pig ileum **test** and succinyl-L-proline was found to have the properties of a specific ACE inhibitor. It showed inhibitory effect of angiotensin I and bradykinin without having any effects on angiotensin II. Then res...
247. ...large interconnecting chamber. Multiple cell types are first individually seeded in the inner wells and, when required, are flooded with an overlying medium to facilitate well-to-well communication. **Test** material can be added to the overlying medium and both media and cells can be analyzed individually. Plating of hepatocytes with other organ-specific cells allows evaluation of drug metabolism and or...
248. ...s of medical science, health delivery, and healthcare finance. In early 2016, Soon-Shiong launched the National Immunotherapy Coalition to encourage rival pharmaceutical companies to work together to **test** combinations of cancer-fighting drugs. He has also met with Joe Biden to discuss approaches to fighting cancer, including conducting genomic sequencing of 100,000 patients to create a large database...
249. ...armacology studies have to be designed for defining the dose-response relationship of the adverse effect observed. Justification should be provided for the selection of the particular animal model or **test** system. The time course (e.g., onset and duration of response) of the adverse effect is investigated through selected time points for the measurements based on pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic con...
250. ...nts based on pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic considerations. Generally, the doses eliciting the adverse effect have to be compared to the doses eliciting the primary pharmacodynamic effect in the **test** species or the proposed therapeutic effect in humans. The primary reference document for safety pharmacology is ICH S7A, followed by many key regulatory documents which either focus on or mention saf...
251. ...lood vessel. LigandScout LigandScout is computer software that allows creating three-dimensional (3D) pharmacophore models from structural data of macromolecule–ligand complexes, or from training and **test** sets of organic molecules. It incorporates a complete definition of 3D chemical features (such as hydrogen bond donors, acceptors, lipophilic areas, positively and negatively ionizable chemical group...
252. ...availability of an imperfect substitution erodes prices to a lesser degree than would a perfect substitute. Some countries grant additional protections from competition for a limited period, such as **test** data exclusivity or supplementary protection certificates. Additional incentives are available in some jurisdictions for manufacturers of orphan drugs for rare diseases, including extended monopoly p...
253. ...n caused by antimicrobial, anti-fungal or antimalarial drugs. Diagnosis is often carried out by patch testing. This testing should be performed within one month after resolution of the rash and patch **test** results are interpreted at different time points: 48 hours, 72hours and even later at 96 hours and 120 hours in order to improve the sensitivity. Shampoo Shampoo () is a hair care product, typically...
254. ...arning ability is one area of interest to researchers. A study involving 63 polysubstance dependent women and 46 controls (participants who were not using substances) used the Benton Visual Retention **Test** (BVRT) and the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) to look at visual memory and verbal ability. This study showed that in polysubstance dependent women, verbal learning ability was significantly d...
255. ...rchers. A study involving 63 polysubstance dependent women and 46 controls (participants who were not using substances) used the Benton Visual Retention Test (BVRT) and the California Verbal Learning **Test** (CVLT) to look at visual memory and verbal ability. This study showed that in polysubstance dependent women, verbal learning ability was significantly decreased, though visual memory was not affected...
256. ...hol and cocaine use led to more severe issues with verbal learning, recall, and recognition. Sometimes studies about specific groups in the general population can be informative. One study decided to **test** the cognitive abilities of participants in rave parties who used multiple substances. To do this, they compared 25 rave party attenders with 27 control participants who were not using substances. The...
257. ...tive functioning even more? One study decided to try to determine if people with polysubstance use who also recreationally use alcohol would display poorer performance on a verbal learning and memory **test** in comparison to those who consumed excessive amounts of alcohol specifically. The California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) was used due to its ability to "quantify small changes in verbal learning and...
258. ...ionally use alcohol would display poorer performance on a verbal learning and memory test in comparison to those who consumed excessive amounts of alcohol specifically. The California Verbal Learning **Test** (CVLT) was used due to its ability to "quantify small changes in verbal learning and memory" by evaluating errors made during the test and the strategies used to make those errors. The results of thi...
259. ...amounts of alcohol specifically. The California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) was used due to its ability to "quantify small changes in verbal learning and memory" by evaluating errors made during the **test** and the strategies used to make those errors. The results of this study showed that the group of people with polysubstance and alcohol use performed poorly on the CVLT recall and recognition tests co...
260. ...eas of cognitive functioning, which included visual memory, verbal memory, knowledge of words, abstract reasoning, inhibition (interference), and attention. The study used the Benton Visual Retention **Test** (BVRT) for testing visual memory, the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) for verbal memory, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale vocabulary portion for knowledge of words, the Booklet Category T...
261. ...ory, knowledge of words, abstract reasoning, inhibition (interference), and attention. The study used the Benton Visual Retention Test (BVRT) for testing visual memory, the California Verbal Learning **Test** (CVLT) for verbal memory, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale vocabulary portion for knowledge of words, the Booklet Category Test for abstract reasoning, the Stroop Neuropsychological Screening ta...
262. ...t (BVRT) for testing visual memory, the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) for verbal memory, the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale vocabulary portion for knowledge of words, the Booklet Category **Test** for abstract reasoning, the Stroop Neuropsychological Screening task for inhibition, and the Trail Making Test for attention. The results showed that neuropsychological ability did not improve with i...
263. ...Adult Intelligence Scale vocabulary portion for knowledge of words, the Booklet Category Test for abstract reasoning, the Stroop Neuropsychological Screening task for inhibition, and the Trail Making **Test** for attention. The results showed that neuropsychological ability did not improve with increases in the length of time abstinent. This suggests that polysubstance dependence leads to serious impairme...
264. ...rs Two questionnaires were devised by Cloninger to measure the temperaments and characters of individuals. RD can be measured using both the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ) personality **test** and by the newer and refined version of the personality test called Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) and its revised version (TCI-R). Owing to the limitations encountered in the TPQ, in that...
265. ...e temperaments and characters of individuals. RD can be measured using both the Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire (TPQ) personality test and by the newer and refined version of the personality **test** called Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) and its revised version (TCI-R). Owing to the limitations encountered in the TPQ, in that the three dimensions' clinical utility was not readily appar...
266. ...stimuli are also implicated in the response to complex social rewards stimuli. The RD sub-scale from the TCI inventory measures how sensitive individuals are to social rewards. High RD scores on the **test** correlate to increased attachment and an increased need for social relationships. Low RD scores show a movement towards social detachment and insensitivity. At the 2010 Annual meeting of the American...
267. ...ctors that may generate entrapped air: Foam, entrained and dissolved air that are present in coolants and processing liquids, may cause various kinds of problems, including: There are several ways to **test** defoamers. The easiest is looking at the surface foam. All that is needed is a system for generating foam. This might be done with a round pumping system with a nozzle and a cylinder or an air inject...
268. ...on those results, scientists started focusing on selective COX-2 inhibitors. Enormous effort was spent on the development of NSAIDs between the 1960s and 1980 so there were numerous pharmacophores to **test** when COX-2 was discovered. Early efforts focused on modification on two lead compounds, DuP-697 and NS-398. These compounds differ greatly from NSAIDs that are arylalkonic acid analogs. Encouraged by...
269. ...of the penis. This injection site is often used to administer medications to check for or treat erectile dysfunction in adult men (in, for example, a combined intracavernous injection and stimulation **test**). The more common medications administered in this manner include Caverject, Trimix (prostaglandin, papaverine, and phentolamine), Bimix (papaverine and phentolamine), and Quadmix (prostaglandin, pap...
270. ...eals (only one sample was analyzed), soy, wines and apples. A study of public water bodies ending in March 2022 showed that the sum of PFOS and PFOA concentrations exceeded 50 ng/L in 81 out of 1,133 **test** sites and in some cases are present at elevated levels in blood. This has led to pressure to increase regulations. Highly contaminated drinking water has been detected at several locations in Sweden....
271. ...dy in Finland studying eight firefighters over three training sessions observed select PFASs (PFHxS and PFNA) increase in blood samples following each training event. Due to this small sample size, a **test** of significance was not conducted. A 2015 cross-sectional study conducted in Australia found that PFOS and PFHxS accumulation was positively associated with years of occupational AFFF exposure throug...
272. ...ist urine wash out effects and provide a sustained drug delivery. Drug reference standard A drug reference standard or pharmaceutical reference standard is a highly characterized material suitable to **test** the identity, strength, quality and purity of substances for pharmaceutical use and medicinal products. Pharmacopoeial reference standards are a subset of pharmaceutical reference standards. They are...
273. ...a public health concern, since elevated radioactivity in the environment is mutagenic and can lead to cancer. Eigencolloids have been implicated in the long-range transport of plutonium on the Nevada **Test** Site. Colloid-facilitated transport Colloid-facilitated transport designates a transport process by which colloidal particles serve as transport vector of diverse contaminants in the surface water (s...
274. ...colloids, the term ""Eigencolloid"" is used to designate pure phases, e.g., Tc(OH), Th(OH), U(OH), Am(OH). Colloids have been suspected for the long range transport of plutonium on the Nevada Nuclear **Test** Site. They have been the subject of detailed studies for many years. However, the mobility of inorganic colloids is very low in compacted bentonites and in deep clay formations because of the process...

=== ELIMINATION (55 occurrences) ===
1. ...s can possibly be manufactured to treat specific infections. Phages can be bioengineered to target multidrug-resistant bacterial infections, and their use involves the added benefit of preventing the **elimination** of beneficial bacteria in the human body. Phages destroy bacterial cell walls and membrane through the use of lytic proteins which kill bacteria by making many holes from the inside out. Bacteriophag...
2. ...eriaceae. In pre-clinical trials, a new drug can be radiolabeled and injected into animals. Such scans are referred to as biodistribution studies. The information regarding drug uptake, retention and **elimination** over time can be obtained quickly and cost-effectively compare to the older technique of killing and dissecting the animals. Commonly, drug occupancy at a purported site of action can be inferred ind...
3. ...macology and epidemiology. Pharmacoenvironmentology or environmental pharmacology is the study of the effects of used pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) on the environment after their **elimination** from the body. Human health and ecology are intimately related so environmental pharmacology studies the environmental effect of drugs and pharmaceuticals and personal care products in the environmen...
4. ...n the body, it is usually described as 'what the body does to the drug' the physico-chemical properties of a drug will affect the rate and extent of absorption, extent of distribution, metabolism and **elimination**. The drug needs to have the appropriate molecular weight, polarity etc. in order to be absorbed, the fraction of a drug the reaches the systemic circulation is termed bioavailability, this is simply...
5. ...st cases of SS resolve within 24 hours, although in some cases delirium may persist for a number of days. Symptoms typically persist for a longer time frame in patients taking drugs which have a long **elimination** half-life, active metabolites, or a protracted duration of action. Cases have reported persisting chronic symptoms, and antidepressant discontinuation may contribute to ongoing features. Following ap...
6. ...use of mefloquine in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy and use in the first trimester does not mandate termination of pregnancy. Mefloquine is metabolized primarily through the liver. Its **elimination** in persons with impaired liver function may be prolonged, resulting in higher plasma levels and an increased risk of adverse reactions. The mean elimination plasma half-life of mefloquine is between...
7. ...tabolized primarily through the liver. Its elimination in persons with impaired liver function may be prolonged, resulting in higher plasma levels and an increased risk of adverse reactions. The mean **elimination** plasma half-life of mefloquine is between two and four weeks. Total clearance is through the liver, and the primary means of excretion is through the bile and feces, as opposed to only 4% to 9% excre...
8. ...sorrow. In Ancient Greek "Pharmakon" was the word for medicine and "Nepenthes" meant no ("ne)" sorrow ("penthes)." Since the 18th century it is believed to be made from opium.  Excretion Excretion is **elimination** of metabolic waste, which is an essential process in all organisms. In vertebrates, this is primarily carried out by the lungs, kidneys, and skin. This is in contrast with secretion, where the substa...
9. ...e active substance takes from application location to the location where it has its target effect is usually rather a matter of pharmacokinetics (concerning the processes of uptake, distribution, and **elimination** of drugs). Exceptions include the transdermal or transmucosal routes, which are still commonly referred to as "routes of administration". The location of the target effect of active substances is usu...
10. ...tion on drug response, by correlating DNA mutations (including point mutations, copy number variations, and structural variations) with pharmacokinetic (drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, and **elimination**), pharmacodynamic (effects mediated through a drug's biological targets), and/or immunogenic endpoints. Pharmacogenomics aims to develop rational means to optimize drug therapy, with regard to the pa...
11. ...). Pharmacogenomics refers to polygenic drug response phenotypes and encompasses transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics. Pharmacokinetics involves the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and **elimination** of pharmaceutics. These processes are often facilitated by enzymes such as drug transporters or drug metabolizing enzymes (discussed in-depth below). Variation in DNA loci responsible for producing t...
12. ...cytochrome P450 mixed-function oxidase system, is one of the most important enzymes involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics in the body. In particular, CYP2D6 is responsible for the metabolism and **elimination** of approximately 25% of clinically used drugs, via the addition or removal of certain functional groups – specifically, hydroxylation, demethylation, and dealkylation. CYP2D6 also activates some prod...
13. ...e expression that will lead to decreased or increased CYP2D6 activity respectively. If such a drug is taken at the same time as a second drug that is a CYP2D6 substrate, the first drug may affect the **elimination** rate of the second through what is known as a drug-drug interaction. The gene is located on chromosome 22q13.1. near two cytochrome P450 pseudogenes (CYP2D7P and CYP2D8P). Among them, CYP2D7P origina...
14. ...tion of CD20 is unknown, it may play a role in Ca influx across plasma membranes, maintaining intracellular Ca concentration and allowing activation of B cells. Rituximab is relatively ineffective in **elimination** of cells with low CD20 cell-surface levels. It tends to stick to one side of B cells, where CD20 is, forming a cap and drawing proteins over to that side. The presence of the cap changes the effectiv...
15. ...at killing the cell. In contrast, when the B cell lacked this asymmetric protein cluster, it was killed only 40% of the time. The following effects have been found: The combined effect results in the **elimination** of B cells (including the cancerous ones) from the body, allowing a new population of healthy B cells to develop from lymphoid stem cells. Rituximab binds to amino acids 170–173 and 182–185 on CD20,...
16. ...ecopharmacology" with further concurrent and later terms for the same concept (ecopharmacovigilance, environmental pharmacology, ecopharmacostewardship). The first of these routes to the environment, **elimination** through living organisms subsequent to pharmacotherapy, is suggested as the principal source of environmental contamination (apart from cases where norms for treatment of manufacturing and other wast...
17. ...droxylation of "N","N"-didesmethyltamoxifen. Tamoxifen and its metabolites undergo conjugation, including glucuronidation and sulfation. Tamoxifen may inhibit its own metabolism. Tamoxifen has a long **elimination** half-life of typically 5 to 7 days, with a range of 4 to 11 days. Similarly, the half-life of afimoxifene is 14 days. Conversely, the half-life of endoxifen is 50 to 70 hours (2–3 days). The long hal...
18. ...nge programmes as they can be used efficiently either by injection or ophthalmic (if the drug is potent in small doses) route of administer which is compared to intravenous use; by demonstration, the **elimination** of latanoprost acid from plasma is rapid (half-life 17 minutes) after either ophthalmic or intravenous administration. Steroid and antibiotic eye drops may cause stinging for one or two minutes when...
19. ...nd medium are frequency-dependent, varying the energizing signal and measuring the way in which the force changes can be used to determine the electrical properties of particles; this also allows the **elimination** of electrophoretic motion of particles due to inherent particle charge. Phenomena associated with dielectrophoresis are electrorotation and traveling wave dielectrophoresis (TWDEP). These require com...
20. ...extracts of St John's wort ("Hypericum perforatum"), a phytotherapic used for treating mild depression are known to cause an increase in the cytochrome P450 enzymes responsible for the metabolism and **elimination** of many drugs, so patients taking it are likely to experience a reduction in blood levels of drugs they are taking for other purposes, such as cancer chemotherapeutic drugs, protease inhibitors for H...
21. ..., PBPK modeling can be used, "inter alia", to evaluate the involvement of carrier-mediated transport, clearance saturation, enterohepatic recirculation of the parent compound, extra-hepatic/extra-gut **elimination**; higher "in vivo" solubility than predicted "in vitro"; drug-induced gastric emptying delays; gut loss and regional variation in gut absorption. Each type of modeling technique has its strengths and...
22. ...nisation through the development of technical guidelines and requirements for pharmaceutical product registration. Harmonisation leads to a more rational use of human, animal and other resources, the **elimination** of unnecessary delay in the global development, and availability of new medicines while maintaining safeguards on quality, safety, efficacy, and regulatory obligations to protect public health. Junod...
23. ...droxyl now allows it to be metabolized normally in the same way as ordinary glucose, producing non-radioactive end-products. Although in theory all [F]FDG is metabolized as above with a radioactivity **elimination** half-life of 110 minutes (the same as that of fluorine-18), clinical studies have shown that the radioactivity of [F]FDG partitions into two major fractions. About 75% of the fluorine-18 activity rem...
24. ...und. Soap mixed with water (polar, hydrophilic) is useful for cleaning oils and fats (non-polar, lipiphillic) from kitchenware, dishes, skin, clothing, etc. Biological half-life Biological half-life (**elimination** half-life, pharmacological half-life) is the time taken for concentration of a biological substance (such as a medication) to decrease from its maximum concentration (C) to half of C in the blood pla...
25. ...urs. In likely relation to this fact, endogenous oxytocin concentrations in the brain have been found to be as much as 1000-fold higher than peripheral levels. Half-times apply to processes where the **elimination** rate is exponential. If formula_2 is the concentration of a substance at time formula_3, its time dependence is given by where "k" is the reaction rate constant. Such a decay rate arises from a first...
26. ...is the concentration of a substance at time formula_3, its time dependence is given by where "k" is the reaction rate constant. Such a decay rate arises from a first-order reaction where the rate of **elimination** is proportional to the amount of the substance: The half-life for this process is Alternatively, half-life is given by where "λ" is the slope of the terminal phase of the time–concentration curve for...
27. ...digoxin has a half-life (or t) of 24–36 h; this means that a change in the dose will take the best part of a week to take full effect. For this reason, drugs with a long half-life (e.g., amiodarone, **elimination** t of about 58 days) are usually started with a loading dose to achieve their desired clinical effect more quickly. Many drugs follow a biphasic elimination curve — first a steep slope then a shallow...
28. ...gs with a long half-life (e.g., amiodarone, elimination t of about 58 days) are usually started with a loading dose to achieve their desired clinical effect more quickly. Many drugs follow a biphasic **elimination** curve — first a steep slope then a shallow slope: The longer half-life is called the "terminal half-life" and the half-life of the largest component is called the "dominant half-life." For a more det...
29. ...herapy. The effect of age causes deterioration of organ function, like liver function and kidney function. Pharmacokinetics is the study of drugs' effects on absorption, distribution, metabolism, and **elimination**. Pharmacodynamics is the study of drugs' effects on our body and their mechanisms. Pharmacogenetics is defined as the study of inherited genes causing different drug metabolisms that vary from each o...
30. ...restenosis associated with BMS prompted the development of DES, which resulted in a reduction of ISR incidence to around 5-10%. Continued development of newer generation DES have resulted in the near-**elimination** of BMS from clinical practice. A key benefit of DES usage compared to BMS is a lower incidence of repeat revascularization procedures (re-stenting, invasive bypass surgeries etc.). Revascularization...
31. ..."V" to decrease (maximum velocity decreases as a result of removing activated complex) and "K" to decrease (due to better binding efficiency as a result of Le Chatelier's principle and the effective **elimination** of the ES complex thus decreasing the "K" which indicates a higher binding affinity). Uncompetitive inhibition is rare. In non-competitive inhibition the binding of the inhibitor to the enzyme reduce...
32. ...ickness). Ornithine decarboxylase can catalyse the decarboxylation of DFMO instead of ornithine (see the "DFMO inhibitor mechanism" diagram). However, this decarboxylation reaction is followed by the **elimination** of a fluorine atom, which converts this catalytic intermediate into a conjugated imine, a highly electrophilic species. This reactive form of DFMO then reacts with either a cysteine or lysine residue...
33. ...rmacological effect. If an infusion has reached steady state then the context-sensitive half-life is equal to the terminal plasma half-life of the drug. Otherwise it will be shorter than the terminal **elimination** half-life. Remifentanil is relatively context insensitive whilst fentanyl and thiopentone are examples of drugs which have significant context-sensitive changes in their half-life. The Context-Sensit...
34. ...ceutical ingredients into any two piece gelatin capsule. There are certain considerations for the formation of sustained-release formulation: The biological half-life of the drug refers to the drug's **elimination** from the bloodstream which can be caused by metabolism, urine, and other forms of excretion. If the active compound has a long half-life (over 6 hours), it is sustained on its own. If the active comp...
35. ...disposition phase. Other authors include the drug's toxicological aspect in what is known as "ADME-Tox" or "ADMET". The two phases of metabolism and excretion can be grouped together under the title **elimination**. The study of these distinct phases involves the use and manipulation of basic concepts in order to understand the process dynamics. For this reason, in order to fully comprehend the "kinetics" of a...
36. ...y be expressed in units of an equivalent dimension by scaling. In pharmacokinetics, "steady state" refers to the situation where the overall intake of a drug is fairly in dynamic equilibrium with its **elimination**. In practice, it is generally considered that once regular dosing of a drug is started, steady state is reached after 3 to 5 times its half-life. In steady state and in linear pharmacokinetics, AUC=A...
37. ...reflect the actual shape of the concentration-time curve. The number of time points available in order to perform a successful NCA analysis should be enough to cover the absorption, distribution and **elimination** phase to accurately characterize the drug. Beyond AUC exposure measures, parameters such as Cmax (maximum concentration), Tmax (time to maximum concentration), CL and Vd can also be reported using NC...
38. ...ssues. For example, the concentration in other areas may be approximately related by known, constant factors to the blood plasma concentration. In this one-compartment model, the most common model of **elimination** is first order kinetics, where the elimination of the drug is directly proportional to the drug's concentration in the organism. This is often called "linear pharmacokinetics", as the change in conce...
39. ...areas may be approximately related by known, constant factors to the blood plasma concentration. In this one-compartment model, the most common model of elimination is first order kinetics, where the **elimination** of the drug is directly proportional to the drug's concentration in the organism. This is often called "linear pharmacokinetics", as the change in concentration over time can be expressed as a linear...
40. ...n of drugs, that can be breached with greater or lesser ease depending on the drug's characteristics. If these relative conditions for the different tissue types are considered along with the rate of **elimination**, the organism can be considered to be acting like two compartments: one that we can call the "central compartment" that has a more rapid distribution, comprising organs and systems with a well-develo...
41. ...the brain, can occupy a variable position depending on a drug's ability to cross the barrier that separates the organ from the blood supply. Two-compartment models vary depending on which compartment **elimination** occurs in. The most common situation is that elimination occurs in the central compartment as the liver and kidneys are organs with a good blood supply. However, in some situations it may be that eli...
42. ...drug's ability to cross the barrier that separates the organ from the blood supply. Two-compartment models vary depending on which compartment elimination occurs in. The most common situation is that **elimination** occurs in the central compartment as the liver and kidneys are organs with a good blood supply. However, in some situations it may be that elimination occurs in the peripheral compartment or even in...
43. ...ion occurs in. The most common situation is that elimination occurs in the central compartment as the liver and kidneys are organs with a good blood supply. However, in some situations it may be that **elimination** occurs in the peripheral compartment or even in both. This can mean that there are three possible variations in the two compartment model, which still do not cover all possibilities. In the real worl...
44. ...one of them will be strictly linear. The two-compartment model may not be applicable in situations where some of the enzymes responsible for metabolizing the drug become saturated, or where an active **elimination** mechanism is present that is independent of the drug's plasma concentration. If we label the drug's volume of distribution within the organism Vd and its volume of distribution in a tissue Vd the for...
45. ...non-linearity include the following: It can therefore be seen that non-linearity can occur because of reasons that affect the entire pharmacokinetic sequence: absorption, distribution, metabolism and **elimination**. At a practical level, a drug's bioavailability can be defined as the proportion of the drug that reaches the systemic circulation. From this perspective the intravenous administration of a drug prov...
46. ...erstanding of the underlying biological and physiological processes governing drug behavior. These models offer insights into the mechanisms influencing drug absorption, distribution, metabolism, and **elimination**, aiding in predicting drug responses in diverse scenarios. Trial models describe variations from the nominal trial protocol due to things such as patient dropout and lack of adherence to the dosing r...
47. ...tein or vesicle, which is then described as PEGylated. PEGylation affects the resulting derivatives or aggregates interactions, which typically slows down their coalescence and degradation as well as **elimination** in vivo. PEGylation is routinely achieved by the incubation of a reactive derivative of PEG with the target molecule. The covalent attachment of PEG to a drug or therapeutic protein can "mask" the ag...
48. ...ase of epidemics. In 1921, vaccination became mandatory for smallpox, and in 1944 the Bases Health Act mandated compulsory vaccination for diphtheria and smallpox, but was suspended in 1979 after the **elimination** of the threat of an epidemic. The first systematic immunization schedule for the provinces of Spain was established in 1975 and has continuously been updated by each autonomous community in regard to...
49. ...ed using schlieren optics at both ends of the solution in the cell. Maintenance dose In pharmacokinetics, a maintenance dose is the maintenance rate [mg/h] of drug administration equal to the rate of **elimination** at steady state. This is not to be confused with dose regimen, which is a type of drug therapy in which the dose [mg] of a drug is given at a regular dosing interval on a repetitive basis. Continuing...
50. ...ocumentation. It is estimated that 20% of paper-based prescription orders go unfilled by the patient, partly due to the hassle of dropping off a paper prescription and waiting for it to be filled. By **elimination** or reducing this waiting period, e-prescribing may help reduce the number of unfilled prescriptions and hence, increasing medication adherence. Allowing the renewal of medications through this electr...
51. ...oxylic acid and also by non-CYP-dependent glucuronidation to glucuronide metabolites. The metabolites are excreted in urine and feces, with a small proportion of unchanged drug (2%) in the urine. Its **elimination** half-life is about 11 hours (6–12 hours) in healthy individuals, but racial differences in drug disposition and pharmacokinetic changes in the elderly have been reported. People with chronic kidney d...
52. ...in (about 90%), and has an apparent volume of distribution (V) of 120 L in humans. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) increases in proportion to increased dosage (5–120 mg). The **elimination** half-life is about 20 hours in healthy individuals, and such long half-life enables the choice to have once-daily dosage. Etoricoxib, like the other coxibs, is excreted in urine and feces and also me...
53. ...sure lowering effects than EXP 3174 and losartan. Telmisartan, which was discovered and developed in 1991 by Boehringer Ingelheim, has carboxylic acid as the biphenyl acidic group. It has the longest **elimination** half-life of the ARBs or about 24 hours. Olmesartan medoxomil was developed by Sankyo in 1995 and is the newest ARB on the market, marketed in 2002. It is an ester prodrug like candesartan cilexetil....
54. ...pophilicity are pharmacokinetic properties that have been associated with rapid onset of action. It has been speculated that good ability to cross the blood brain barrier and relatively long terminal **elimination** half-life may result in a lower incidence of headache recurrence. Sumatriptan and rizatriptan undergo first pass hepatic metabolism and result in lower bioavailability. Most triptans were developed a...
55. ...ns of PFOS and PFOA in 3M plant workers ranging from 0.04 to 10.06 ppm and 0.01 to 12.70 ppm, respectively, well below toxic and carcinogenic levels cited in animal studies. Given, however, the serum **elimination** half-life of four to five years and widespread environmental contamination, molecules have been shown to accumulate in humans sufficiently to cause adverse health outcomes. In 2022, levels of at leas...

=== RELEASE (371 occurrences) ===
1. ...nd soap or alcohol-based hand rub for handwashing. Manufacturers of antimicrobials need to improve the treatment of their wastewater (by using industrial wastewater treatment processes) to reduce the **release** of residues into the environment. It is established that the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry can give rise to AMR resistances in bacteria found in food animals to the antibiotics being adminis...
2. ...out of some building with a vase, and you see it 20 times, and you think, "My goodness, were there that many vases?" On July 24, 2003, at a press conference at the Pentagon, Rumsfeld commented on the **release** of photographs of the deceased sons of Saddam Hussein, Uday Hussein and Qusay Hussein. "It is not a practice that the United States engages in on a normal basis," Rumsfeld said. "I honestly believe t...
3. ...imulate and facilitate a national effort to modernize the sciences through which FDA-regulated products are developed, evaluated, and manufactured. The Initiative was launched in March 2004, with the **release** of a report entitled Innovation/Stagnation: Challenge and Opportunity on the Critical Path to New Medical Products. The Compassionate Investigational New Drug program was created after "Randall v. U....
4. ...for the same target. A related technique involves scanning with radioligands that compete with an endogenous (naturally occurring) substance at a given receptor to demonstrate that a drug causes the **release** of the natural substance. A miniature animal PET has been constructed that is small enough for a fully conscious rat to be scanned. This RatCAP (rat conscious animal PET) allows animals to be scanned...
5. ...els can also be collapsed and separated by external fields such as gravity. Colloidal gels show linear response rheology at low amplitudes. These materials have been explored as candidates for a drug **release** matrix. A hydrogel is a network of polymer chains that are hydrophilic, sometimes found as a colloidal gel in which water is the dispersion medium. A three-dimensional solid results from the hydrophi...
6. ...ng as a precursor to a neurotransmitter; 2) inhibiting neurotransmitter synthesis; 3) preventing storage of neurotransmitters in the presynaptic vesicle; 4) stimulating or inhibiting neurotransmitter **release**; 5) stimulating or blocking post-synaptic receptors; 6) stimulating autoreceptors, inhibiting neurotransmitter release; 7) blocking autoreceptors, increasing neurotransmitter release; 8) inhibiting n...
7. ...itters in the presynaptic vesicle; 4) stimulating or inhibiting neurotransmitter release; 5) stimulating or blocking post-synaptic receptors; 6) stimulating autoreceptors, inhibiting neurotransmitter **release**; 7) blocking autoreceptors, increasing neurotransmitter release; 8) inhibiting neurotransmission breakdown; or 9) blocking neurotransmitter reuptake by the presynaptic neuron. The other central metho...
8. ...neurotransmitter release; 5) stimulating or blocking post-synaptic receptors; 6) stimulating autoreceptors, inhibiting neurotransmitter release; 7) blocking autoreceptors, increasing neurotransmitter **release**; 8) inhibiting neurotransmission breakdown; or 9) blocking neurotransmitter reuptake by the presynaptic neuron. The other central method through which drugs act is by affecting communications between...
9. ...he monoamine neurotransmitters in the presynaptic terminals that are not contained in protective synaptic vesicles. The inhibition of the enzyme increases the amount of neurotransmitter available for **release**. It increases norepinephrine, dopamine, and 5-HT, thus increasing the action of the transmitters at their receptors. MAOIs have been somewhat disfavored because of their reputation for more serious s...
10. ...al neurotransmitter systems, but their clinical effectiveness is most likely due to their ability to antagonize dopamine transmission by competitively blocking the receptors or by inhibiting dopamine **release**. The most serious and troublesome side effects of these classical antipsychotics are movement disorders that resemble the symptoms of Parkinson's disease, because the neuroleptics antagonize dopamine...
11. ...ivation can inhibit cAMP formation, inhibit voltage-sensitive calcium ion channels, and activate potassium ion channels. Many CB receptors are located on axon terminals, where they act to inhibit the **release** of various neurotransmitters. In combination, these chemical actions work to alter various functions of the central nervous system, including the motor system, memory, and various cognitive processes...
12. ...ock pain signals in the spinal cord. The pathways begin in the locus coeruleus (noradrenaline) and the nucleus of raphe (serotonin). Similar to other abused substances, opioid drugs increase dopamine **release** in the nucleus accumbens. Opioids are more likely to produce physical dependence worse than that of other classes of psychoactive drugs, and can lead to painful withdrawal symptoms if discontinued ab...
13. ...of: Aerosols can be found in urban ecosystems in various forms, for example: The presence of aerosols in the Earth's atmosphere can influence its climate, as well as human health. Volcanic eruptions **release** large amounts of sulphuric acid, hydrogen sulfide and hydrochloric acid into the atmosphere. These gases represent aerosols and eventually return to earth as acid rain, having a number of adverse eff...
14. ...equation describing mass flux is: where "I" is the mass flux in the continuum regime. This formula is called the Fuchs-Sutugin interpolation formula. These equations do not take into account the heat **release** effect. Aerosol partitioning theory governs condensation on and evaporation from an aerosol surface, respectively. Condensation of mass causes the mode of the particle-size distributions of the aeros...
15. ...yrovalerone, MDMA (ecstasy), and DOM (STP). Many drugs in this class work primarily by activating trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1); in turn, this causes reuptake inhibition and effluxion, or **release**, of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin. An additional mechanism of some substituted amphetamines is the release of vesicular stores of monoamine neurotransmitters through VMAT2, thereby increasi...
16. ...ted receptor 1 (TAAR1); in turn, this causes reuptake inhibition and effluxion, or release, of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin. An additional mechanism of some substituted amphetamines is the **release** of vesicular stores of monoamine neurotransmitters through VMAT2, thereby increasing the concentration of these neurotransmitters in the cytosol, or intracellular fluid, of the presynaptic neuron. Am...
17. ...eurons in the brain. The H autoreceptors regulate histaminergic activity in the central nervous system (and to a lesser extent, the peripheral nervous system) by inhibiting histamine biosynthesis and **release** upon binding to endogenous histamine. By preventing the binding of endogenous histamine at the H, as well as producing a response opposite to that of endogenous histamine at the receptor (inverse ago...
18. ...ontains the gut microbiota, with some 1,000 different strains of bacteria having diverse roles in the maintenance of immune health and metabolism, and many other microorganisms. Cells of the GI tract **release** hormones to help regulate the digestive process. These digestive hormones, including gastrin, secretin, cholecystokinin, and ghrelin, are mediated through either intracrine or autocrine mechanisms, i...
19. ...year, ImClone was sold to Eli Lilly and Company for $6.5 billion. Waksal became aware of the FDA's rejection on Christmas Day 2001. Unable to get the FDA to reconsider, ImClone began drafting a press **release** announcing the Erbitux rejection. This was due to be released at the close of business on December 28. Until then, under federal securities law, Waksal was barred from selling his ImClone stock or te...
20. ...ased at the close of business on December 28. Until then, under federal securities law, Waksal was barred from selling his ImClone stock or telling anyone about the pending rejection. However, public **release** of the Erbitux rejection would expose Waksal to a number of financial problems beyond the near-certainty of ImClone's stock sliding. For example, Waksal had pledged a warrant to buy ImClone shares as...
21. ...ll. He was later transferred to the Federal Correctional Institution, Milan. On February 9, 2009, Waksal, Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) # 53803-054, was released from BOP custody. In 2009, upon his **release** from prison Waksal began fundraising and launched the company Kadmon Pharmaceuticals in New York City. Waksal was forced to step down from the CEO position in 2014 as the company planned an IPO, beca...
22. ...ents to make the tablets visually attractive or aid in visual identification of an unknown tablet. A polymer coating is often applied to make the tablet smoother and easier to swallow, to control the **release** rate of the active ingredient, to make it more resistant to the environment (extending its shelf life), or to enhance the tablet's appearance.  Medicinal tablets were originally made in the shape of...
23. ...are easier to break accurately if scored, but there are devices called pill-splitters which cut unscored and scored tablets. Tablets with special coatings (for example, enteric coatings or controlled-**release** coatings) should not be broken before use, as this exposes the tablet core to the digestive juices, circumventing the intended delayed-release effect. Enema An enema, also known as a clyster, is an i...
24. ...al coatings (for example, enteric coatings or controlled-release coatings) should not be broken before use, as this exposes the tablet core to the digestive juices, circumventing the intended delayed-**release** effect. Enema An enema, also known as a clyster, is an injection of fluid into the lower bowel by way of the rectum. The word enema can also refer to the liquid injected, as well as to a device for a...
25. ...o form reactive oxygen species by reaction with molecular oxygen. Resulting metabolites are the dimethylarsenic radical and the dimethylarsenic peroxyl radical. Both DMA(III) and DMA(V) were shown to **release** iron from horse spleen as well as from human liver ferritin if ascorbic acid was administered simultaneously. Thus, formation of reactive oxygen species can be promoted. Moreover, arsenic could cause...
26. ...me "fluoride" is also used in compositional IUPAC nomenclature which does not take the nature of bonding involved into account. "Fluoride" is also used non-systematically, to describe compounds which **release** fluoride upon dissolving. Hydrogen fluoride is itself an example of a non-systematic name of this nature. However, it is also a trivial name, and the preferred IUPAC name for "fluorane". Fluorine is...
27. ...eat osteoporosis, sodium fluoride can cause pain in the legs and incomplete stress fractures when the doses are too high; it also irritates the stomach, sometimes so severely as to cause ulcers. Slow-**release** and enteric-coated versions of sodium fluoride do not have gastric side effects in any significant way, and have milder and less frequent complications in the bones. In the lower doses used for water...
28. ...osive. Gloves made of nitrile rubber are worn when handling fluoride compounds. The hazards of solutions of fluoride salts depend on the concentration. In the presence of strong acids, fluoride salts **release** hydrogen fluoride, which is corrosive, especially toward glass. Organic and inorganic anions are produced from fluoride, including: Calcium deficiency (plant disorder) Calcium (Ca) deficiency is a pl...
29. ...s of the United States National Library of Medicine (NLM) that uses maps of the United States to help users visually explore data from the United States Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Toxics **Release** Inventory and Superfund programs. TOXMAP is a resource funded by the US Federal Government. TOXMAP's chemical and environmental health information is taken from NLM's Toxicology Data Network  (TOXNET...
30. ...haemostatic drugs, antifibrinolytics, Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT), bone regulators, beta-receptor agonists, follicle stimulating hormone, luteinising hormone, LHRH, gamolenic acid, gonadotropin **release** inhibitor, progestogen, dopamine agonists, oestrogen, prostaglandins, gonadorelin, clomiphene, tamoxifen, diethylstilbestrol. Emollients, anti-pruritics, antifungals, antiseptics, scabicides, pedicul...
31. ...disorder, soared. Mevacor (lovastatin) is the first and most influential statin in the American market. The 1991 launch of Pravachol (pravastatin), the second available in the United States, and the **release** of Zocor (simvastatin) made Mevacor no longer the only statin on the market. In 1998, Viagra was released as a treatment for erectile dysfunction. Using plants and plant substances to treat all kinds...
32. ...States, ACT UP formed in the 1980s, and eventually formed its Treatment Action Group in part to pressure the US government to put more resources into discovering treatments for AIDS and then to speed **release** of drugs that were under development. The Abigail Alliance was established in November 2001 by Frank Burroughs in memory of his daughter, Abigail. The Alliance seeks broader availability of investiga...
33. ...n of bones, and possibly galactorrhea and amenorrhea. 5-HT Receptor: When serotonin is released on to postsynaptic 5-HT receptors, the dopamine neuron is inhibited, thus acting as a brake on dopamine **release**. This brake is disrupted through action of a 5-HT antagonist, which disinhibits the dopamine neuron, stimulating dopamine release. The result of this is that dopamine competes with antipsychotic D an...
34. ...the dopamine neuron is inhibited, thus acting as a brake on dopamine release. This brake is disrupted through action of a 5-HT antagonist, which disinhibits the dopamine neuron, stimulating dopamine **release**. The result of this is that dopamine competes with antipsychotic D antagonistic action at D receptors, thereby reducing antagonistic binding there and eliminating or lowering D antagonistic effects i...
35. ...ntagonistic effects in several pathways of the dopamine system. In the nigrostratial pathway, it reduces EPS. In the tuberoinfundibular pathway, it reduces or eliminates prolactin elevation. Dopamine **release** in the mesolimbic pathway from 5-HT antagonism does not appear to be as robust as in the other pathways of the dopamine system, thereby accounting for why atypical antipsychotics still retain part of...
36. ...ve symptoms, and cognitive deficits and abnormalities are treated and reduced. Furthermore, 5-HT receptor antagonism blocks the serotonergic excitation of cortical pyramidal cells, reducing glutamate **release**, which in turn lowers hyperactive dopaminergic D receptor activity in the mesolimbic pathway, reducing or eliminating the positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Brexpiprazole, approved by the US FDA in...
37. ...ss of pleasure and motivation effect resulting from dopamine insufficiency or blockade at D receptors in the mesolimbic pathway, which is mediated in some part by antipsychotics (and despite dopamine **release** in the mesocortical pathway from 5-HT antagonism, which is seen in atypical antipsychotics), or the positive mood, mood stabilization, and cognitive improvement effect resulting from atypical antipsy...
38. ...on that is variable between individual experience and the atypical antipsychotic(s) being used. Inhibition. Disinhibition: The opposite process of inhibition, the turning on of a biological function. **Release**: Causes the appropriate neurotransmitters to be discharged in vesicles into the synapse where they attempt to bind to and activate a receptor. Downregulation and Upregulation. "Note: Unless otherwise...
39. ...nd five histidine residues. The uptake of O by hemerythrin is accompanied by two-electron oxidation of the reduced binuclear center to produce bound peroxide (OOH). The mechanism of oxygen uptake and **release** have been worked out in detail. Hemocyanins carry oxygen in the blood of most mollusks, and some arthropods such as the horseshoe crab. They are second only to hemoglobin in biological popularity of...
40. ...s air (e.g. oxygen, natural gas) and adsorption of heavy (polar) hydrocarbons from natural gas. Zeolites are natural or synthetic crystalline aluminosilicates, which have a repeating pore network and **release** water at high temperature. Zeolites are polar in nature. They are manufactured by hydrothermal synthesis of sodium aluminosilicate or another silica source in an autoclave followed by ion exchange wi...
41. ...surfaces through polyelectrolyte adsorption. Adsorption is the first step in the viral life cycle. The next steps are penetration, uncoating, synthesis (transcription if needed, and translation), and **release**. The virus replication cycle, in this respect, is similar for all types of viruses. Factors such as transcription may or may not be needed if the virus is able to integrate its genomic information in...
42. ...er (paraffin wax) and lesser (mineral oil) molecular weights. It is used as a tack reducer additive to printing inks to reduce paper lint "picking" from uncalendered paper stocks. It can be used as a **release** agent for plaster molds and castings. It is used in the leather industry as a waterproofing cream. Petroleum jelly can be mixed with a high proportion of strong inorganic chlorates due to it acting a...
43. ...en from the air and then carry it back in the form of oxyhaemaglobin, to nourish the cells. The red blood cells also carry carbon dioxide () away from the cells in the form of carbaminohemoglobin and **release** it into the alveoli through the alveolar capillaries. When the diaphragm relaxes, a positive pressure is generated in the thorax and air rushes out of the alveoli expelling the carbon dioxide. The re...
44. ...s "The People's Pharmacy" began reporting on consumers' complaints that generic versions of bupropion (Wellbutrin) were yielding unexpected effects. Subsequently, Impax Laboratories's 300 mg extended-**release** tablets, marketed by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, were withdrawn from the US market after the FDA determined in 2012 that they were not bioequivalent. Problems with the quality of generic drugs –...
45. ...cted by the Americans- or that it had been linked to Osama bin Laden, who was a resident of Khartoum in the 1980s." The attack took place a week after the Monica Lewinsky scandal and two months after **release** of the film "Wag the Dog", prompting some commentators to describe the attack as a distraction for the public from the scandal. On 20 August 1998, the factory was destroyed in cruise missile strikes...
46. ...ation of the surfactant is increased, a point is reached at which the unfavorable entropy contribution, from clustering the hydrophobic tails of the molecules, is overcome by a gain in entropy due to **release** of the solvation shells around the surfactant tails. At this point, the lipid tails of a part of the surfactants must be segregated from the water. Hence, they start to form micelles. In broad terms,...
47. ...ain-reducing effect of the opiate. The oral route is generally the most convenient and costs the least. However, some drugs can cause gastrointestinal tract irritation. For drugs that come in delayed **release** or time-release formulations, breaking the tablets or capsules can lead to more rapid delivery of the drug than intended. The oral route is limited to formulations containing small molecules only whi...
48. ...ect of the opiate. The oral route is generally the most convenient and costs the least. However, some drugs can cause gastrointestinal tract irritation. For drugs that come in delayed release or time-**release** formulations, breaking the tablets or capsules can lead to more rapid delivery of the drug than intended. The oral route is limited to formulations containing small molecules only while biopharmaceut...
49. ...former cavities and are swallowed. Neural drug delivery is the next step beyond the basic addition of growth factors to nerve guidance conduits. Drug delivery systems allow the rate of growth factor **release** to be regulated over time, which is critical for creating an environment more closely representative of in vivo development environments. Subcutaneous administration Subcutaneous administration is th...
50. ...takes less time, as the site of injection (a muscle versus a vein) is much larger. Medications administered in the muscle may also be administered as depot injections, which provide slow, continuous **release** of medicine over a longer period of time. Certain substances, including ketamine, may be injected intramuscularly for recreational purposes. Disadvantages of intramuscular administration include skil...
51. ...lear medicine include a patient's medical history as well as post-treatment management. Groups like International Commission on Radiological Protection have published information on how to manage the **release** of patients from a hospital with unsealed radionuclides. Electrophoresis Electrophoresis is the motion of charged dispersed particles or dissolved charged molecules relative to a fluid under the infl...
52. ...ium ions (Ca) contribute to the physiology and biochemistry of organisms' cells. They play an important role in signal transduction pathways, where they act as a second messenger, in neurotransmitter **release** from neurons, in contraction of all muscle cell types, and in fertilization. Many enzymes require calcium ions as a cofactor, including several of the coagulation factors. Extracellular calcium is al...
53. ...yroid gland also affects calcium levels by opposing parathyroid hormone; however, its physiological significance in humans is dubious. Intracellular calcium is stored in organelles which repetitively **release** and then reaccumulate Ca ions in response to specific cellular events: storage sites include mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. Characteristic concentrations of calcium in model organisms ar...
54. ...s energy to pump calcium out of the cell by hydrolysing adenosine triphosphate (ATP). In neurons, voltage-dependent, calcium-selective ion channels are important for synaptic transmission through the **release** of neurotransmitters into the synaptic cleft by vesicle fusion of synaptic vesicles. Calcium's function in muscle contraction was found as early as 1882 by Ringer. Subsequent investigations were to r...
55. ...auditory, and the olfactory system. It may often be bound to calmodulin such as in the olfactory system to either enhance or repress cation channels. Other times the calcium level change can actually **release** guanylyl cyclase from inhibition, like in the photoreception system. Ca ion can also determine the speed of adaptation in a neural system depending on the receptors and proteins that have varied affi...
56. ...lements based on amino acid chelates (such as glycinate, lysinate etc.) are much better-tolerated by the digestive system and do not have the side-effects of the older compounds used, while sustained-**release** dietary supplements prevent the occurrence of diarrhea. Since the kidneys of adult humans excrete excess magnesium efficiently, oral magnesium poisoning in adults with normal renal function is very r...
57. ...pecific binding of Mg to biological membranes is frequently observed, Mg is also used as a signalling molecule, and much of nucleic acid biochemistry requires Mg, including all reactions that require **release** of energy from ATP. In nucleotides, the triple-phosphate moiety of the compound is invariably stabilized by association with Mg in all enzymatic processes. In photosynthetic organisms, Mg has the add...
58. ...the case of Mg, which is highly mobile in both the xylem and phloem, the ions will be transported to the top of the plant and back down again in a continuous cycle of replenishment. Hence, uptake and **release** from vascular cells is probably a key part of whole plant Mg homeostasis. Figure 1 shows how few processes have been connected to their molecular mechanisms (only vacuolar uptake has been associated...
59. ...constituents, recycling them into healthy parts of the plant. In addition, when Mg in the environment is limiting, some species are able to mobilise Mg from older tissues. These processes involve the **release** of Mg from its bound and stored states and its transport back into the vascular tissue, where it can be distributed to the rest of the plant. In times of growth and development, Mg is also remobilise...
60. .... The transport of Mg into mitochondria probably uses ΔΨ as in the mitochondria of yeast, and it is likely that chloroplasts take Mg by a similar system. The mechanism and the molecular basis for the **release** of Mg from vacuoles and from the cell is not known. Likewise, the light-regulated Mg concentration changes in chloroplasts are not fully understood, but do require the transport of H ions across the...
61. ...ine trade has made ginseng the most harvested wild plant in North America for the last two centuries, which eventually led to a listing on CITES Appendix II. Chinese medicinal plant materials (CMPMs) **release** chemicals that attracts the Drugstore beetle, leading to the accumulation of this pest and further infestation and damage to these plants. Chinese herbology is a pseudoscientific practice with potent...
62. ...ch as margarines with a high fat content of more than 75%, it stabilizes emulsions, reduces spattering (splashing and scattering of oil droplets) during frying, improves texture of spreads and flavor **release**. In doughs and baking, it reduces fat and egg requirements, helps even out distribution of ingredients in dough, stabilizes fermentation, increases volume, protects yeast cells in dough when frozen,...
63. ...e functions, and regulate plant responses to different biotic and abiotic stresses. Jasmonates also have the ability to directly act on mitochondrial membranes by inducing membrane depolarization via **release** of metabolites. Jasmonate derivatives (JAD) are also important in wound response and tissue regeneration in plant cells. They have also been identified to have anti-aging effects on human epidermal l...
64. ..." a children's book with Lynne Cherry (1998); and "Medicine Quest: In Search of Nature's Healing Secrets" (2000). Plotkin was interviewed in 1998 by "South American Explorer" magazine, just after the **release** of "Tales of a Shaman's Apprentice" and the IMAX movie Amazonia. In the book, he stated that he saw wisdom in both traditional and Western forms of medicine: No medical system has all the answers—no...
65. ...ic factors and repression of proangiogenic factors. It is thought that a contribution to the unregulated growth observed in cancer could be due to proteolytic cleavage of HER2/neu that results in the **release** of the extracellular domain. One of the most relevant proteins that trastuzumab activates is the tumor suppressor p27 (kip1), also known as CDKN1B. Trastuzumab has been shown to inhibit HER2/neu ecto...
66. ...pid structure. The following year, Bangham, his colleague Malcolm Standish, and Gerald Weissmann, an American physician, established the integrity of this closed, bilayer structure and its ability to **release** its contents following detergent treatment (structure-linked latency). During a Cambridge pub discussion with Bangham, Weissmann first named the structures "liposomes" after something which laborator...
67. ...the destabilization of the liposome within the endosome, triggering pore formation on the endosomal membrane and allowing diffusion of the liposome and its contents into the cytoplasm. Another is the **release** of the encapsulated content within the endosome, eventually diffusing out into the cytoplasm through the endosomal membrane. Lastly, the membrane of the liposome and the endosome fuse together, relea...
68. ...e bloodstream. An advantage of a transdermal drug delivery route over other types of medication delivery (such as oral, topical, intravenous, or intramuscular) is that the patch provides a controlled **release** of the medication into the patient, usually through either a porous membrane covering a reservoir of medication or through body heat melting thin layers of medication embedded in the adhesive. The ma...
69. ...microneedles, which allows a more versatile range of compounds or molecules to be passed through the skin without having to micronize the medication beforehand. MNPs offer the advantage of controlled **release** of medication and simple application without medical professional assistance required. With advanced MNPs technology, drug delivery can be specified for local usage, for example skin whitener MNPs th...
70. ...yer system; the multi-layer system is different, however, in that it adds another layer of drug-in-adhesive, usually separated by a membrane (but not in all cases). One of the layers is for immediate **release** of the drug, and the other layer is for controlled release of the drug from the reservoir. This patch also has a temporary liner-layer and a permanent backing. The drug release from this depends on m...
71. ...n that it adds another layer of drug-in-adhesive, usually separated by a membrane (but not in all cases). One of the layers is for immediate release of the drug, and the other layer is for controlled **release** of the drug from the reservoir. This patch also has a temporary liner-layer and a permanent backing. The drug release from this depends on membrane permeability and diffusion of drug molecules. Unlik...
72. ...ayers is for immediate release of the drug, and the other layer is for controlled release of the drug from the reservoir. This patch also has a temporary liner-layer and a permanent backing. The drug **release** from this depends on membrane permeability and diffusion of drug molecules. Unlike the single-layer and multi-layer drug-in-adhesive systems, the reservoir transdermal system has a separate drug laye...
73. ...ble metallic plastic laminate, with a rate-controlling membrane made of a polymer like vinyl acetate on one surface. This patch is also backed by the backing layer. In this type of system the rate of **release** is zero order. Reservoir patches should not be cut (with the exception of hyoscine hyrdobromide 1.5mg patch according to the British National Formulary for Children). The matrix system has a drug lay...
74. ...r Children). The matrix system has a drug layer of a semisolid matrix containing a drug solution or suspension. The adhesive layer in this patch surrounds the drug layer, partially overlaying it. The **release** rate is determined by the physical properties of the matrix. Also known as a monolithic device. Limited research indicates that it may be possible to cut some matrix patches to provide lower doses, p...
75. ...provide lower doses, provided the cut part not immediately used is stored at cool temperatures. In a vapour patch, the adhesive layer not only serves to adhere the various layers together but also to **release** vapour. Vapour patches release essential oils for up to 6 hours and are mainly used for decongestion. Other vapour patches on the market improve quality of sleep or aid in smoking cessation. The micr...
76. ...he cut part not immediately used is stored at cool temperatures. In a vapour patch, the adhesive layer not only serves to adhere the various layers together but also to release vapour. Vapour patches **release** essential oils for up to 6 hours and are mainly used for decongestion. Other vapour patches on the market improve quality of sleep or aid in smoking cessation. The microneedle patch (MNPs) is a type...
77. .... Some examples of topical solutions are given below: Transdermal patches can be a very precise time released method of delivering a drug. Cutting a patch in half might affect the dose delivered. The **release** of the active component from a transdermal delivery system (patch) may be controlled by diffusion through the adhesive which covers the whole patch, by diffusion through a membrane which may only hav...
78. ...sdermal delivery system (patch) may be controlled by diffusion through the adhesive which covers the whole patch, by diffusion through a membrane which may only have adhesive on the patch rim or drug **release** may be controlled by release from a polymer matrix. Cutting a patch might cause rapid dehydration of the base of the medicine and affect the rate of diffusion. Some medications are applied as an oint...
79. ...h) may be controlled by diffusion through the adhesive which covers the whole patch, by diffusion through a membrane which may only have adhesive on the patch rim or drug release may be controlled by **release** from a polymer matrix. Cutting a patch might cause rapid dehydration of the base of the medicine and affect the rate of diffusion. Some medications are applied as an ointment or gel, and reach the mu...
80. ...nasal topical decongestants and smelling salt. Topical drug classification system (TCS) is proposed by the FDA. It is designed from the Biopharmaceutics Classification System (BCS) for oral immediate **release** solid drug products which is very successful for decades. There are 3 aspects to assess and 4 classes in total. The 3 aspects include qualitative (Q1), quantitative (Q2) and similarity of in vitro re...
81. ...se solid drug products which is very successful for decades. There are 3 aspects to assess and 4 classes in total. The 3 aspects include qualitative (Q1), quantitative (Q2) and similarity of in vitro **release** (IVR) rate (Q3). In the early 1970s, the Alza Corporation, through their founder Alejandro Zaffaroni, filed the first US patents describing transdermal delivery systems for scopolamine, nitroglycerin...
82. ...t simply exhaled. However, they did not find large individual differences in the amounts exhaled. Vaporizers are sometimes used by chefs as a method of applying controlled heat to herbs and spices to **release** flavors that are otherwise difficult to titrate or apply, or that might be spoiled by overheating during cooking. Grant Achatz, chef-proprietor of Alinea in Chicago, "uses the aroma-filled bags as pl...
83. ...ccasionally, other coating materials are used, for example synthetic polymers, shellac, corn protein zein or other polysaccharides. Capsules are coated with gelatin. Enterics control the rate of drug **release** and determine where the drug will be released in the digestive tract. Materials used for enteric coatings include fatty acids, waxes, shellac, plastics, and plant fibers. Colours are added to improve...
84. ...quinine. That is not to say that the patient's psychologically induced response may not include physiological effects. For example, an expectation of pain may induce anxiety, which in turn causes the **release** of cholecystokinin, which facilitates pain transmission. In the narrowest sense, a nocebo response occurs when a drug-trial subject's symptoms are worsened by the administration of an inert, sham, or...
85. ...evere unintended and undesirable side effects. Many herbal extracts historically used in medicine contain glycosides (sugar derivatives) of the active agent, which are hydrolyzed in the intestines to **release** the active and more bioavailable aglycone. For example, salicin is a β-D-glucopyranoside that is cleaved by esterases to release salicylic acid. Aspirin, acetylsalicylic acid, first made by Felix Hof...
86. ...atives) of the active agent, which are hydrolyzed in the intestines to release the active and more bioavailable aglycone. For example, salicin is a β-D-glucopyranoside that is cleaved by esterases to **release** salicylic acid. Aspirin, acetylsalicylic acid, first made by Felix Hoffmann at Bayer in 1897, is a synthetic prodrug of salicylic acid. However, in other cases, such as codeine and morphine, the admi...
87. ...h, is not toxic to bacteria until it has been converted to an active form by the body. Likewise, prontosil, the first sulfa drug (discovered by Gerhard Domagk in 1932), must be cleaved in the body to **release** the active molecule, sulfanilamide. Since that time, many other examples have been identified. Terfenadine, the first non-sedating antihistamine, had to be withdrawn from the market because of the sm...
88. ...cutaneous" injection), or muscle ("intramuscular" injection). The jet stream is usually generated by the pressure of a piston in an enclosed liquid-filled chamber. The piston is usually pushed by the **release** of a compressed metal spring, although devices being studied may use piezoelectric effects and other novel technologies to pressurize the liquid in the chamber. The springs of currently marketed and...
89. ...erodynamic" competitors, if they act on distinct receptor with similar downstream pathways. The interaction my also occur via signal transduction mechanisms. For example, low blood glucose leads to a **release** of catecholamines, triggering symptoms that hint the organism to take action, like consuming sugary foods. If a patient is on insulin, which reduces blood sugar, and also beta-blockers, the body is l...
90. ...rug market. In 2000, Pickard was arrested for manufacturing LSD in Kansas and was serving two life sentences at United States Penitentiary, Tucson. On July 27, 2020, Pickard was granted Compassionate **Release** from federal prison after serving 17 years of his sentence. The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) became interested in LSD when they read reports alleging that American prisoners during the Kore...
91. ...the SWPC resigned in protest over the actions of the parent board, stating that the SWPC was "nothing more than a glorified publicity agency". Thomas W. Moss, regional director, announced in a press **release** that the resignations of the entire Michigan regional division board were included in a resolution sent to Johnson on September 29, 1943. Two days later, on October 1, 1943, Johnson resigned his chai...
92. ...onsensus. The final decisions are based on multiple factors including the Points to Consider documentation, implications on legacy data, and language considerations internationally.  The MSSO and JMO **release** updated MedDRA versions twice a year - in March and September. The English and Japanese translation are released on 1 March and September and all other translations are released on the 15th. The Marc...
93. ...pdated MedDRA versions twice a year - in March and September. The English and Japanese translation are released on 1 March and September and all other translations are released on the 15th. The March **release** is the main annual release and contains changes at the HLT level and above along with LLT and PT changes. The September release contains changes only at the LLT and PT level. , Version 27.1 is the mo...
94. ...e a year - in March and September. The English and Japanese translation are released on 1 March and September and all other translations are released on the 15th. The March release is the main annual **release** and contains changes at the HLT level and above along with LLT and PT changes. The September release contains changes only at the LLT and PT level. , Version 27.1 is the most recent version.  The MSS...
95. ...eptember and all other translations are released on the 15th. The March release is the main annual release and contains changes at the HLT level and above along with LLT and PT changes. The September **release** contains changes only at the LLT and PT level. , Version 27.1 is the most recent version.  The MSSO frequently incorporates feedback from the user community to stay abreast of its unique perspectives...
96. ..., which is essential for their antibacterial activity. These compounds undergo complex enzymatic modifications during biosynthesis. Cyanogenic glycosides are amino acid derivatives in plants that can **release** hydrogen cyanide when tissues are damaged, serving as a defense mechanism. Their biosynthesis involves converting amino acids into cyanohydrins, which are then glycosylated. Glucosinolates are sulfur...
97. ...are water-soluble, they are also investigated for biochemical and medical applications. There is currently much research on using biocompatible polyelectrolytes for implant coatings, controlled drug **release**, and other applications. Thus, recently, the biocompatible and biodegradable macroporous material composed of polyelectrolyte complex was described, where the material exhibited excellent proliferati...
98. ...ring drug concentrations and adverse effects in the environment are lacking. Pharmaceuticals, their metabolites, and related substances may enter the environment after patient excretion, after direct **release** to waste streams during manufacturing or administration, or via terrestrial deposits (e.g., from waste sludges or leachates). A concept combining pharmacovigilance and environmental pharmacology, int...
99. ...potency (54% inhibition of dopamine uptake at 10μM) and lacks any stimulant or depressant effects when administered by itself. However, tamoxifen dose-dependently blocks amphetamine-mediated dopamine **release** and psychostimulant-like effects in animals. This unusual profile of DRI activity has made tamoxifen of potential interest as a starting point for structural modification to develop novel pharmaceuti...
100. ...re often equipped with "quick don" harnesses that allow those in pressurized aircraft to rapidly don the masks in emergencies. Military aviators' oxygen masks are secured to flight helmets with quick-**release** systems. Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare The is a cabinet level ministry of the Japanese government. It is commonly known as in Japan. The ministry provides services on health, labour and welf...
101. ...gs. These devices require significant coordination as a person must discharge the medication at or near the same time that they inhale in order for the medication to be effective. Dry powder inhalers **release** a metered or device-measured dose of powdered medication that is inhaled through a DPI device. This device usually contains a chamber in which the powdered medication is deposited prior to each dosag...
102. ...prior to each dosage. The powder can then be inhaled with a quick breath. This allows for medication to be delivered to the lungs without the need for use of propellant/suspension. Soft mist inhalers **release** a light mist containing medication without the need for a propellant/suspension. Upon pressing a button, the inhaler creates a mist of medication, allowing for inhalation into the lungs. SMIs suspend...
103. ...ecipitates In the triiodo intermediate the addition of the second ammonia ligand is governed by the trans effect. A one-pot synthesis of cisplatin from KPtCl has been developed. It relies on the slow **release** of ammonia from ammonium acetate. Cisplatin has been studied with Auger therapy to increase the therapeutic effects of cisplatin, without increasing normal tissue toxicities. However, due to signific...
104. ...water including lowering chlorine levels for use in aquariums, swimming pools, and spas (e.g., following superchlorination) and within water treatment plants to treat settled backwash water prior to **release** into rivers. The reduction reaction is analogous to the iodine reduction reaction. In pH testing of bleach substances, sodium thiosulfate neutralizes the color-removing effects of bleach and allows o...
105. ...e mixtures of cells are forced through large numbers (>100) of wells in parallel; those experiencing positive DEP are trapped in the device whilst the rest are flushed. Switching off the field allows **release** of the trapped cells into a separate container. The highly parallel nature of the approach means that the chip can sort cells at much higher speeds, comparable to those used by MACS and FACS. This ap...
106. ...dy heat, speed up spring back time and help the mattress feel softer. This technology was originally developed and patented by Peterson Chemical Technology, and gel mattresses became popular with the **release** of Serta's iComfort line and Simmons' Beautyrest line in 2011. Gel-infused memory foam was next developed with what were described as "beads" containing the gel which, as a phase-change material, ach...
107. ...rough its agonist actions on the CB receptors, which inhibit a secondary messenger system (adenylate cyclase) in a dose-dependent manner. Via CB receptor activation, THC indirectly increases dopamine **release** and produces psychotropic effects. CBD also acts as an allosteric modulator of the μ- and δ-opioid receptors. THC also potentiates the effects of the glycine receptors. It is unknown if or how these...
108. ...ches the axon terminal, it will cause an influx of calcium ions into the cell. The calcium ions will then cause vesicles, small packets filled with neurotransmitters, to bind to the cell membrane and **release** its contents into the synapse. This cell is known as the pre-synaptic neuron, and the cell that interacts with the neurotransmitters released is known as the post-synaptic neuron. Once the neurotrans...
109. ...roducing very thin films of metal oxides for various purposes. Sol–gel derived materials have diverse applications in optics, electronics, energy, space, (bio)sensors, medicine (e.g., controlled drug **release**), reactive material, and separation (e.g., chromatography) technology. The interest in sol–gel processing can be traced back in the mid-1800s with the observation that the hydrolysis of tetraethyl or...
110. ...nd fibers. Also, thin films have found their application in the electronic field and can be used as sensitive components of a resistive gas sensors. Sol-gel technology has been applied for controlled **release** of fragrances and drugs. Macroscopic optical elements and active optical components as well as large area hot mirrors, cold mirrors, lenses, and beam splitters can be made by the sol–gel route. In th...
111. ...izer, leather polish, nail polish remover, or videotape head cleaner to evade anti-drug laws. The term "poppers" stems from the "popping" sound of glass vials containing the substance when crushed to **release** vapour for inhalation. Amyl nitrite was originally prescribed in the late 1800s for the medical management of angina. Many analogues exist, such as isoamyl nitrite, isopentyl nitrite, isopropyl nitri...
112. ...), as a treatment for Gaucher's disease, in 2012. The regulation of genetic engineering concerns the approaches taken by governments to assess and manage the risks associated with the development and **release** of genetically modified crops. There are differences in the regulation of GM crops – including those used for pharming – between countries, with some of the most marked differences occurring between...
113. ...bly, LSD does not activate IP signaling through this receptor to any significant extent. (Conversely, LSD, unlike serotonin, has negligible affinity for the 5-HT isoform, is unable to promote calcium **release**, and is, thus, functionally selective at 5-HT.) Oligomers, specifically 5-HT– heteromers, mediate this effect. This may explain why some direct 5-HT receptor agonists have psychedelic effects, wherea...
114. ...centration drops below CMC and no micelles remain at equilibrium. Therefore, the solubilization plays a minor role in detergents. Removal of oily soil occurs by modification of the contact angles and **release** of oil in the form of emulsion. In petroleum industry, CMC is considered prior to injecting surfactant in reservoir regarding enhanced oil recovery (EOR) application. Below the CMC point, interfacial...
115. ...astringent, or as a styptic for superficial shaving wounds. Aluminium sulfate is used as a mordant in dyeing and printing textiles. It is a common vaccine adjuvant and works "by facilitating the slow **release** of antigen from the vaccine depot formed at the site of inoculation." Aluminium sulfate is used in water purification and for chemical phosphorus removal from wastewater. It causes suspended impuriti...
116. ...fic way. Based on drug action on receptors, there are 2 different types of drugs: Once the receptors are activated, they either trigger a particular response directly on the body, or they trigger the **release** of hormones and/or other endogenous drugs in the body to stimulate a particular response. Drugs interact with receptors by bonding at specific binding sites. Most receptors are made up of proteins, a...
117. ...and malaria. Boric acid esters derived from glycols (example, organo-borate formulation, "Biobor JF") are being used for the control of microorganisms in fuel systems containing water. Brass vessels **release** a small amount of copper ions into stored water, thus killing fecal bacterial counts as high as 1 million bacteria per milliliter. Copper sulfate mixed with lime (Bordeaux mixture) is used as a fungi...
118. ...at Harvard Medical School under Judah Folkman. Langer is widely regarded for his contributions to medicine and biotechnology. He is considered a pioneer of many new technologies, including controlled **release** systems and transdermal delivery systems, which allow the administration of drugs or extraction of analytes from the body through the skin without needles or other invasive methods. Langer worked wit...
119. ...a delivery system for them is difficult. Langer's idea was to encapsulate the angiogenesis inhibitor in a noninflammatory synthetic polymer system that could be implanted in the tumor and control the **release** of the inhibitor. He eventually invented polymer systems that would work. This discovery is considered to lay the foundation for much of today's drug delivery technology. Langer also worked with Henr...
120. ...called "incomplete cross-tolerance". Cocaine, amphetamines, methylphenidate and ephedrine block the reuptake of dopamine and norepinephrine. With increasing doses, amphetamines also cause the direct **release** of these neurotransmitters. Serotonergic psychedelics act through modulation of serotonin receptors. Most of these drugs share a high affinity for the 5-HT receptor subtype, known to result in their...
121. ...mes exhibit increased stability and reduced permeability. Furthermore, the use of synthetic polymers enables designers to manipulate the characteristics of the membrane and thus control permeability, **release** rates, stability and other properties of the polymersome. Several different morphologies of the block copolymer used to create the polymersome have been used. The most frequently used are the linear...
122. ...contain active enzymes and that provide a way to selectively transport substrates for conversion by those enzymes have been described as nanoreactors. Polymersomes have been used to create controlled **release** drug delivery systems. Similar to coating liposomes with polyethylene glycol, polymersomes can be made invisible to the immune system if the hydrophilic block consists of polyethylene glycol. Thus, p...
123. ...n the κ-casein molecule is often called the primary phase of the rennet action, while the phase of coagulation and syneresis is referred to as the secondary phase. In cooking, syneresis is the sudden **release** of moisture contained within protein molecules, usually caused by excessive heat, which over-hardens the protective shell. Moisture inside expands upon heating. The hard protein shell pops, expelling...
124. ...onsible for traumatic brain injuries (TBI). CMF was tested against blasts and fragments. The panels were tested against 23 × 152 mm high explosive incendiary rounds (as in anti-aircraft weapons) that **release** a high-pressure blast wave and metal fragments at speeds up to 1524 m/s. The CMF panels were able to withstand the blast and frag impacts without bowing or cracking. The thicker sample (16.7 mm thick...
125. ...nt mechanism, formulate annual plans for nationwide inspection for food safety and programs for major control actions, and organize their implementation; establish the unified food safety information **release** system and release information on important food safety issues; participate in formulating food safety risk monitoring plans and food safety standards, and undertake food safety risk monitoring there...
126. ...late annual plans for nationwide inspection for food safety and programs for major control actions, and organize their implementation; establish the unified food safety information release system and **release** information on important food safety issues; participate in formulating food safety risk monitoring plans and food safety standards, and undertake food safety risk monitoring thereon; Organize the fo...
127. ...afterword: "by comparison with the reality, my story [is] as tame as a holiday postcard". The book is dedicated to Yvette Pierpaoli, a French activist who died during the course of her aid work. Upon **release**, "The Constant Gardener" was generally well-received among the British press. According to "Book Marks", the book received "mixed" reviews based on 7 critic reviews with 4 being "positive" and 2 bein...
128. ...r enhanced oil recovery. A fundamental reason for the uses of these systems is that a microemulsion phase sometimes has an ultralow interfacial tension with a separate oil or aqueous phase, which may **release** or mobilize them from solid phases even in conditions of slow flow or low pressure gradients. Microemulsions also have industrial applications, one of them being the synthesis of polymers. Microemuls...
129. ...events its dissolution or disintegration in the gastric environment. This helps by either protecting drugs from the acidity of the stomach, the stomach from the detrimental effects of the drug, or to **release** the drug after the stomach (usually in the upper tract of the intestine). Some drugs are unstable at the pH of gastric acid and need to be protected from degradation. Enteric coating is also an effec...
130. ...the size, shape, or volume of the tablet possess no significant effects instead. Enteric coated granules emptying rate is, however, less affected by the presence of food and present the more uniform **release** and reproducible transit time typical of the multiparticulates dispersion. By preventing the drug from dissolving into the stomach, enteric coating may protect gastric mucosa from the irritating effe...
131. ...ic coating. However, the first material that was extensively used as enteric coating agent was shellac, since its introduction in 1930. Properly treated or hydrolyzed shellac showed different enteric **release** properties. Recently, some companies have begun to apply enteric coatings to fish oil (omega-3 fatty acids) supplements. The coating prevents the fish oil capsules from being digested in the stomach,...
132. ...vation of this reward indicator system by an addictive drug can also cause previously neutral stimuli to be encoded as cues that the brain is about to receive a reward. This happens via the selective **release** of dopamine, a neurotransmitter responsible for feelings of euphoria and pleasure. The use of dopaminergic drugs alters the amount of dopamine released throughout the mesolimbic system, and regular o...
133. ...cal code Pharmaceutical codes are used in medical classification to uniquely identify medication. They may uniquely identify an active ingredient, drug system (including inactive ingredients and time-**release** agents) in general, or a specific pharmaceutical product from a specific manufacturer. Drug system identifiers (manufacturer-specific including inactive ingredients): Hierarchical systems: Ingredient...
134. ...important at these scales, the reaction proceeds much more quickly. Historically, pyrotechnic or explosive applications for traditional thermites have been limited due to their relatively slow energy **release** rates. Because nanothermites are created from reactant particles with proximities approaching the atomic scale, energy release rates are far greater. MICs or super-thermites are generally developed f...
135. ...ditional thermites have been limited due to their relatively slow energy release rates. Because nanothermites are created from reactant particles with proximities approaching the atomic scale, energy **release** rates are far greater. MICs or super-thermites are generally developed for military use, propellants, explosives, incendiary devices, and pyrotechnics. Research into military applications of nano-siz...
136. ...of bombs several times more powerful than conventional explosives. Nanoenergetic materials can store more energy than conventional energetic materials and can be used in innovative ways to tailor the **release** of this energy. Thermobaric weapons are one potential application of nanoenergetic materials. There are many possible thermodynamically stable fuel-oxidizer combinations. Some of them are: In militar...
137. ...hospital practice, the role is developing in primary care. Vaginal ring Vaginal rings (also known as intravaginal rings, or V-Rings) are polymeric drug delivery devices designed to provide controlled **release** of drugs for intravaginal administration over extended periods of time. The ring is inserted into the vagina and provides contraception protection. Vaginal rings come in one size that fits most peopl...
138. ...aginal rings may lead to increased normal vaginal secretions, decreased body weight, reduced symptoms of PMS, and occasionally cases of vaginitis, device-related problems and leukorrhea. Because they **release** estrogen, vaginal rings have an increased risk of heart attack, stroke, and other serious side effects. Additionally, certain medicines and supplements, such as the antibiotic rifampin, the anti-fung...
139. ...sure to air, and without washing or staining. The company entered into a global license agreement with Spin Master Ltd. for Zubbles Colored Bubbles in December 2005. Despite announcements of expected **release** dates, Spin Master dropped plans for commercial production due to complexities in the manufacturing process. In 2008, the company reached a licensing agreement with a new toy company called Jamm Comp...
140. ...ion when considering its use for cost analysis: "DDDs, if used with caution can be used to compare, for example, the costs of two formulations of the same drug." So, the "cost per DDD" of an extended-**release** tablet taken once a day compared with a standard tablet taken twice a day, may indicate the extended-release tablet costs much more to treat the same condition. In contrast, using DDD to compare the...
141. ...le, the costs of two formulations of the same drug." So, the "cost per DDD" of an extended-release tablet taken once a day compared with a standard tablet taken twice a day, may indicate the extended-**release** tablet costs much more to treat the same condition. In contrast, using DDD to compare the cost of different drugs or drug groups is "usually not valid" according to the WHO. They recommend that "DDDs...
142. ...ell types. Oxygen is transported from the lungs to the rest of the body bound to the heme group of hemoglobin in red blood cells. In muscles cells, iron binds oxygen to myoglobin, which regulates its **release**. Iron is also potentially toxic. Its ability to donate and accept electrons means that it can catalyze the conversion of hydrogen peroxide into free radicals. Free radicals can cause damage to a wide...
143. ...n either store the iron as ferritin, which is accomplished by Fe binding to apoferritin (in which case the iron will leave the body when the cell dies and is sloughed off into feces), or the cell can **release** it into the body via the only known iron exporter in mammals, ferroportin. Hephaestin, a ferroxidase that can oxidize Fe to Fe and is found mainly in the small intestine, helps ferroportin transfer i...
144. ...s, ferroportin. Hephaestin, a ferroxidase that can oxidize Fe to Fe and is found mainly in the small intestine, helps ferroportin transfer iron across the basolateral end of the intestine cells. Upon **release** into the bloodstream, Fe binds transferrin and circulates to tissues. In contrast, ferroportin is post-translationally repressed by hepcidin, a 25-amino acid peptide hormone. The body regulates iron...
145. ...types such as hepatocytes, is tightly controlled at the transcriptional level and it represents the link between cellular and systemic iron homeostasis due to hepcidin's role as "gatekeeper" of iron **release** from enterocytes into the rest of the body. Erythroblasts produce erythroferrone, a hormone which inhibits hepcidin and so increases the availability of iron needed for hemoglobin synthesis. Although...
146. ...0 in reimbursement to patients. In October 2008, the St. Louis headquarters received an anonymous letter that contained sensitive information about 75 members. The extortionist stated that they would **release** more of similar records if the company failed to pay an unspecified amount of money. A consumer class action lawsuit against Express Scripts was brought on by John Amburgy, a Missouri man, who accuse...
147. ...anking member on the Senate Finance Committee, said that while Azar was at Eli Lilly, he "never, not one time, signed off on a decrease in the price of a drug." Senator Bernie Sanders said in a press **release**, "The nomination of Alex Azar, the former head of Eli Lilly's U.S. operations, shows that Trump was never serious about his promise to stop the pharmaceutical industry from 'getting away with murder'...
148. ...e cannot travel to China and cannot do business with China. President Biden's National Security Council called the sanctions "unproductive and cynical." As Secretary of Health, Azar presided over the **release** of the Trump administration's National Biodefense Strategy in 2018 and the Global Health Security Strategy in 2019. Azar was an opponent of the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. and predi...
149. ...s. The announcement mentioned that each five-day course of remdesivir for treatment of a patient with COVID-19 would cost at least $2,340. HHS Secretary Alex Azar was quoted, and had said (in a press **release**) that "To the extent possible, we want to ensure that any American patient who needs remdesivir can get it." On March 2, 2020, Azar was criticized for unpreparedness that may have accelerated the spr...
150. ...ly. The AtMHX gene is expressed throughout the plant but most strongly in the vascular tissue. The authors suggest that the physiological role of the protein is to store Mg in these tissues for later **release** when needed. The protein localisation to the vacuolar membrane supports this suggestion (see also Chapter 1.5). The protein transports Mg into the vacuolar space and H out, as demonstrated by electro...
151. ...th his college contemporary, John Ripley Myers, and purchased the failing Clinton Pharmaceutical Company for US$5000 that was located in upstate New York. The company found its first success with the **release** of a mineral salt laxative, Sal Hepatica, that helped with dyspepsia. This medicinal product proved profitable for the young entrepreneurs. By the time of his death in 1935, Bristol-Myers had become...
152. ...d in the lab turning into a tooth bud which, when implanted in the gums, will give rise to a new tooth, and would be expected to be grown in a time over three weeks. It will fuse with the jawbone and **release** chemicals that encourage nerves and blood vessels to connect with it. The process is similar to what happens when humans grow their original adult teeth. Many challenges remain, however, before stem...
153. ...ubility and permeability: The drugs are classified in BCS on the basis of solubility, permeability, and dissolution. Solubility class boundaries are based on the highest dose strength of an immediate **release** product. A drug is considered highly soluble when the highest dose strength is soluble in 250 ml or less of aqueous media over the pH range of 1 to 7.5. The volume estimate of 250 ml is derived from...
154. ...rption in humans is determined to be 90% or more of the administered dose based on a mass-balance determination or in comparison to an intravenous dose. For dissolution class boundaries, an immediate **release** product is considered rapidly dissolving when no less than 85% of the labeled amount of the drug substance dissolves within 15 minutes using USP Dissolution Apparatus 1 at 100 RPM or Apparatus 2 at 5...
155. ...is another injection; it is given every two months. Contraceptive implants are inserted under the skin of the upper arm, and contain progesterone only. Jadelle (Norplant 2) consists of two rods that **release** a low dose of hormones. It is effective for five years. Nexplanon has replaced the former Implanon and is also a single rod that releases etonogestrel (similar to the body's natural progesterone). Th...
156. ...of cervical mucus. Ormeloxifene does not affect ovulation, and its mechanism of action is not well understood. Combined hormonal contraceptives were developed to prevent ovulation by suppressing the **release** of gonadotropins. They inhibit follicular development and prevent ovulation as a primary mechanism of action. Progestogen negative feedback decreases the pulse frequency of gonadotropin-releasing hor...
157. ...opins. They inhibit follicular development and prevent ovulation as a primary mechanism of action. Progestogen negative feedback decreases the pulse frequency of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) **release** by the hypothalamus, which decreases the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and greatly decreases the release of luteinizing hormone (LH) by the anterior pituitary. Decreased levels of FSH...
158. ...event ovulation as a primary mechanism of action. Progestogen negative feedback decreases the pulse frequency of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release by the hypothalamus, which decreases the **release** of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and greatly decreases the release of luteinizing hormone (LH) by the anterior pituitary. Decreased levels of FSH inhibit follicular development, preventing an in...
159. ...eedback decreases the pulse frequency of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) release by the hypothalamus, which decreases the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and greatly decreases the **release** of luteinizing hormone (LH) by the anterior pituitary. Decreased levels of FSH inhibit follicular development, preventing an increase in estradiol levels. Progestogen negative feedback and the lack o...
160. ...anterior pituitary. Decreased levels of FSH inhibit follicular development, preventing an increase in estradiol levels. Progestogen negative feedback and the lack of estrogen positive feedback on LH **release** prevent a mid-cycle LH surge. Inhibition of follicular development and the absence of a LH surge prevent ovulation. Estrogen was originally included in oral contraceptives for better cycle control (t...
161. ...ce the incidence of breakthrough bleeding), but was also found to inhibit follicular development and help prevent ovulation. Estrogen negative feedback on the anterior pituitary greatly decreases the **release** of FSH, which inhibits follicular development and helps prevent ovulation. Another primary mechanism of action of all progestogen-containing contraceptives is inhibition of sperm penetration through...
162. ...er reinforcements. Over the past two decades, iron oxide nanoparticles for biomedical use had increased dramatically, largely due to its ability of non-invasive imaging, targeting and triggering drug **release**, or cancer therapy. Stem or immune cell could be marked with iron oxide nanoparticles to be detected by Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, the concentration of iron oxide nanoparticles needs...
163. ...tion performance under imaging techniques. Activation methods greatly vary across nanoscale drug delivery molecules, but the most commonly used activation method uses specific wavelengths of light to **release** the cargo. Nanovalve-controlled cargo release uses low-intensity light and plasmonic heating to release the cargo in a variation of MSN containing gold molecules. The two-photon activated photo-trans...
164. ...ivation methods greatly vary across nanoscale drug delivery molecules, but the most commonly used activation method uses specific wavelengths of light to release the cargo. Nanovalve-controlled cargo **release** uses low-intensity light and plasmonic heating to release the cargo in a variation of MSN containing gold molecules. The two-photon activated photo-transducer (2-NPT) uses near infrared wavelengths o...
165. ...y molecules, but the most commonly used activation method uses specific wavelengths of light to release the cargo. Nanovalve-controlled cargo release uses low-intensity light and plasmonic heating to **release** the cargo in a variation of MSN containing gold molecules. The two-photon activated photo-transducer (2-NPT) uses near infrared wavelengths of light to induce the breaking of a disulfide bond to rele...
166. ...ease the cargo in a variation of MSN containing gold molecules. The two-photon activated photo-transducer (2-NPT) uses near infrared wavelengths of light to induce the breaking of a disulfide bond to **release** the cargo. Recently, nanodiamonds have demonstrated potential in drug delivery due to non-toxicity, spontaneous absorption through the skin, and the ability to enter the blood–brain barrier. The uniq...
167. ...n mostly studied as potential injectable therapeutic agents for generalized drug delivery, but it has also been shown that films of Parylene nanodiamond composites can be used for localized sustained **release** of drugs over periods ranging from two days to one month. Nanolithography is the technique to pattern materials and build devices under nano-scale. Nanolithography is often used together with thin-fi...
168. ...hicle is a substrate used in the process of drug delivery which serves to improve the selectivity, effectiveness, and/or safety of drug administration. Drug carriers are primarily used to control the **release** of drugs into systemic circulation. This can be accomplished either by slow release of a particular drug over a long period of time (typically diffusion) or by triggered release at the drug's target...
169. ...e selectivity, effectiveness, and/or safety of drug administration. Drug carriers are primarily used to control the release of drugs into systemic circulation. This can be accomplished either by slow **release** of a particular drug over a long period of time (typically diffusion) or by triggered release at the drug's target by some stimulus, such as changes in pH, application of heat, and activation by ligh...
170. ...y used to control the release of drugs into systemic circulation. This can be accomplished either by slow release of a particular drug over a long period of time (typically diffusion) or by triggered **release** at the drug's target by some stimulus, such as changes in pH, application of heat, and activation by light. Drug carriers are also used to improve the pharmacokinetic properties, specifically the bio...
171. ...ly useful for drug delivery as these carriers can accommodate a number of drugs of varying lipophilicity. Disadvantages associated with using liposomes as drug carriers involve poor control over drug **release**. Drugs which have high membrane-permeability can readily 'leak' from the carrier, while optimization of "in vivo" stability can cause drug release by diffusion to be a slow and inefficient process. M...
172. ...omes as drug carriers involve poor control over drug release. Drugs which have high membrane-permeability can readily 'leak' from the carrier, while optimization of "in vivo" stability can cause drug **release** by diffusion to be a slow and inefficient process. Much of the current research involving liposomes is focused on improving the delivery of anticancer drugs such as doxorubicin and paclitaxel. Polyme...
173. ...wide variety of drugs. Microspheres are hollow, micron-sized carriers often formed via self-assembly of polymeric compounds which are most often used to encapsulate the active drug for delivery. Drug **release** is often achieved by diffusion through pores in the microsphere structure or by degradation of the microsphere shell. Some of the research currently being done uses advanced assembly techniques, such...
174. ...osphere shell. Some of the research currently being done uses advanced assembly techniques, such as precision particle fabrication (PPF), to create microspheres capable of sustained control over drug **release**. Nanodiamonds (NDs) are carbon nanoparticles which can vary from ~4-100 nm in diameter. NDs are typically formed in two ways: from micron-sized diamond particles under high-pressure high-temperature...
175. ...ich will not deliver accurate dosage. Pills which are split might not be correctly halved, making the cut pieces unequal in size. Some pills are difficult to split. Some pills (particularly some time **release** drugs) are unsafe to split, and there could be mistakes in identifying when pills should not be split. In a California court filing dated April 2001, Trial Lawyers for Public Justice (TLPJ) brought a...
176. ...ucers are drugs that decreases the AUC of sensitive index substrates of a given metabolic pathway by ≥80%, ≥50% to <80%, and ≥20% to <50%, respectively. Pill dispenser Pill dispensers are items which **release** medication at specified times, to assist patients in adhering to their prescribed medication regime. They may also alert the patient that it is time to take the medication. Some devices can alert a m...
177. ...alloys, most commonly stainless steel or cobalt-chromium, but can also be made of other materials such as platinum-chromium or nickel-titanium. The stent is often coated with a polymer to control the **release** of drugs. The role of polymers in drug delivery is crucial as they regulate the rate at which the drug is released into the surrounding tissue. There are also polymer-free stents where the drug is di...
178. ...tenosis is even more likely to occur if a stent would not have been used. When restenosis occurs, another procedure may be needed to correct the problem, such as the placement of a DES that gradually **release** a drug compound that suppresses cellular growth, thereby reducing the potential for blockage within the stent area itself. This therapy significantly reduces the occurrence of adverse events post-ste...
179. ...isease. Stents are inserted into narrowed coronary arteries, where the narrowing is primarily caused by atherosclerosis. Stents are then expanded to open up the narrowed artery. Such stents gradually **release** a drug compound that suppresses cellular growth, into the newly stented area, thereby reducing the potential for blockage within the stent area itself. Such blockage is termed in-stent restenosis (IS...
180. ...during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to address narrowed coronary arteries. What sets them apart is their special coating, which incorporates a drug delivery system that enables controlled **release** of medication over a specific period, typically within the first 30 to 45 days following implantation. This medication plays a crucial role in inhibiting the formation of scar tissue within the stent...
181. ...). To address this issue, developers of drug-eluting stents used the devices themselves as a tool for delivering medication directly to the arterial wall. While initial efforts were unsuccessful, the **release** (elution) of drugs with certain specific physicochemical properties from the stent was shown in 2001 to achieve high concentrations of the drug locally, directly at the target lesion, with minimal sy...
182. ...he likelihood of stent restenosis. The first type of DES to be approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) were sirolimus-eluting stents (SES), which **release** a natural product called sirolimus, an immunosuppressant drug. SES were shown to reduce the need for repeat procedures and improve the outcomes of patients with coronary artery disease. The sirolimus...
183. ...ter for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) for the drug component of the combination product. The second type of DES to be approved by the EMA and the FDA were paclitaxel-eluting stents (PES), which **release** another natural product called paclitaxel. PES also reduced the need for repeat procedures and improved the outcomes of patients with different types of lesions and risk factors. The paclitaxel-eluti...
184. ...clinical trials. As of now, these stents are not widely utilized in practice. Due to challenges in developing resorbable stents, many manufacturers have focused efforts on targeting or reducing drug **release** through bioabsorbable-polymer coatings. Boston Scientific's Synergy bioabsorbable polymer stent has been shown potential to reduce the length of dual antiplatelet therapy post-implantation. MicroPort...
185. ...layers of polymer can be used: a base layer for adhesion, a main layer that holds and elutes (releases) the drug into the arterial wall by contact transfer, and sometimes a top coat to slow down the **release** of the drug and extend its effect. The first few drug-eluting stents to be licensed used durable coatings. The first generation of coatings appears to have caused immunological reactions at times, an...
186. ...ay from polymer-based DES and instead using either a polymer-free DES or a drug-coated coronary stent. In the case of the polymer-free DES, it utilizes an abluminal coating of probucol to control the **release** of sirolimus. On the other hand, the drug-coated coronary stent has a micro-structured abluminal surface that allows for direct application of an anti-restenotic drug.  there are over 20 different ty...
187. ...agonist that treats hypoactive sexual desire disorder (HSDD) for premenopausal women. The drug acts as antagonist and agonist on two different receptors. The binding of flibanserin causes downstream **release** of dopamine and noradrenaline and reduces the production of serotonin, increasing sex drive. However, currently there is still no evidence that this drug would enhance sexual performance, therefore t...
188. ...ority of medications used for treating delayed ejaculation are primarily intended for treating different medical conditions. Amantadine, a Parkinson's medication, is known to enhance dopamine agonist **release** and activate dopamine receptors, which helps with ejaculation. However, there is not sufficient evidence to support the effectiveness of these medications on delayed ejaculation. Several common medic...
189. ...yme that intramolecularly blocks its activity as a protective mechanism against uncontrolled catalysis. The Nterminal peptide is cleaved (split) from the zymogen enzyme precursor by another enzyme to **release** an active enzyme. The binding site of inhibitors on enzymes is most commonly the same site that binds the substrate of the enzyme. These active site inhibitors are known as orthosteric ("regular" ori...
190. ...is-Menten scheme (shown in the "inhibition mechanism schematic" diagram), an enzyme (E) binds to its substrate (S) to form the enzyme–substrate complex ES. Upon catalysis, this complex breaks down to **release** product P and free enzyme. The inhibitor (I) can bind to either E or ES with the dissociation constants "K" or "K"', respectively. When an enzyme has multiple substrates, inhibitors can show differen...
191. ...the circulation on a sustained basis. It works in a similar manner to a transdermal patch or topical gel. The drug is delivered by a device placed gently against the skin and triggered, causing it to **release** a light spray containing a proprietary formulation of the drug that quickly dries on the skin to form an invisible drug depot. As it would be from a patch, the drug is then absorbed steadily for a pr...
192. ...CRs) are a large family of around 880 cell surface proteins that transduce extra-cellular changes in the environment into a cell response, like triggering an increase in blood pressure because of the **release** of a regulatory hormone into the blood stream. Activation of these GPCRs can involve their entry into cells and when this can be visualised it can be the basis of a systematic analysis of receptor fu...
193. ...adily dissolved, it may be released gradually and act for longer. Having a longer duration of action may improve compliance since the medication will not have to be taken as often. Additionally, slow-**release** dosage forms may maintain concentrations within an acceptable therapeutic range over a longer period, whereas quick-release dosage forms may have sharper peaks and troughs in serum concentration. The...
194. ...since the medication will not have to be taken as often. Additionally, slow-release dosage forms may maintain concentrations within an acceptable therapeutic range over a longer period, whereas quick-**release** dosage forms may have sharper peaks and troughs in serum concentration. The rate of dissolution is described by the Noyes–Whitney equation as shown below: Where: As can be inferred from the Noyes–Whi...
195. ...olubility. For example, stearate and estolate esters of drugs have decreased solubility in gastric fluid. Later, esterases in the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) wall and blood hydrolyze these esters to **release** the parent drug. Coatings on a tablet or pellet may act as barriers to reducing the dissolution rate. Coatings may also be used to control where dissolution takes place. For example, enteric coatings...
196. ...ocalize, target and have a protected drug interaction with the diseased tissue. The conventional drug delivery system is the absorption of the drug across a biological membrane, whereas the "targeted **release** system" releases the drug in a dosage form. The advantages to the targeted release system is the reduction in the frequency of the dosages taken by the patient, having a more uniform effect of the dr...
197. ...conventional drug delivery system is the absorption of the drug across a biological membrane, whereas the "targeted release system" releases the drug in a dosage form. The advantages to the targeted **release** system is the reduction in the frequency of the dosages taken by the patient, having a more uniform effect of the drug, reduction of drug side-effects, and reduced fluctuation in circulating drug lev...
198. ...liver and spleen, a system can reach the intended site of action in higher concentrations. Targeted delivery is believed to improve efficacy while reducing side-effects. When implementing a targeted **release** system, the following design criteria for the system must be taken into account: the drug properties, side-effects of the drugs, the route taken for the delivery of the drug, the targeted site, and t...
199. ...s based on the redox potential. One of the side effects of tumors is hypoxia, which alters the redox potential in the vicinity of the tumor. By modifying the redox potential that triggers the payload **release** the vesicles can be selective to different types of tumors. By utilizing both passive and active targeting, a drug-loaded nanoparticle has a heightened advantage over a conventional drug. It is able...
200. ...eting mechanism that is commonly conferred to lipid-based nanocarriers. When used as a delivery system, the ability to induce instability in the construct is commonly exploited allowing the selective **release** of the encapsulated therapeutic agent in close proximity to the target tissue/cell "in vivo". This nanocarrier system is commonly used in anti-cancer treatments as the acidity of the tumour mass caus...
201. ...ximity to the target tissue/cell "in vivo". This nanocarrier system is commonly used in anti-cancer treatments as the acidity of the tumour mass caused by an over-reliance on glycolysis triggers drug **release**. Additional endogenous trigger pathways have been explored through the exploitation of inner and outer tumor environments, such as reactive oxygen species, glutathione, enzymes, hypoxia, and adenosin...
202. ...es out in regular intervals to form a small, spherical, and very dense nanocarrier. Biodegradable particles have the ability to target diseased tissue as well as deliver their payload as a controlled-**release** therapy. Biodegradable particles bearing ligands to P-selectin, endothelial selectin (E-selectin) and ICAM-1 have been found to adhere to inflamed endothelium. Therefore, the use of biodegradable par...
203. ...NA have been demonstrated. In addition, a DNA "box" with a controllable lid has been synthesized using the DNA origami method. This structure could encapsulate a drug in its closed state, and open to **release** it only in response to a desired stimulus. Targeted drug delivery can be used to treat many diseases, such as the cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. However, the most important application of targ...
204. ...ocular disease. In cardiovascular disease, for example, the efficiency of gene therapy can be improved by "ultrasound targeted microbubble destruction" where a gene-loaded microbubble can be burst to **release** its contents. Research being done on sonophoresis is poorly standardized. For example, the emission of ultrasound waves further away from the source results in a greater beam area, which drastically...
205. ...d fortune of £208 million. He has a wife and four adult children. In 2018, Evans launched the Evamore project, a musical collaboration inspired from the letters of First World War soldiers. The first **release** from the project, "One More Yard", was written by Evans and published in November 2018 to mark the centenary of Armistice Day. Sinéad O'Connor sang lead vocals on the track, with supporting vocals by...
206. ...(not traceable to the patient) by removing the patient's name, medical record number, etc., and giving the patient a unique study number. The supervising Institutional Review Board (IRB) oversees the **release** of any personally identifiable data to the sponsor. From the sponsor's point of view, the main logistic goal of a clinical trial is to obtain accurate CRFs. However, because of human and machine erro...
207. ...s, non-value added aspects, in addition to confusion within the drug, medical device, biotech/biologic and other industries about the true scope and enforcement aspects of Part 11 resulted in the FDA **release** of: This document was intended to clarify how Part 11 should be implemented and would be enforced. But, as with all FDA guidances, it was not intended to convey the full force of law—rather, it expre...
208. ...n efforts when applying these guidances to source data generated at clinical study sites. FDA had previously announced that a new Part 11 would be released late 2006. The Agency has since pushed that **release** date back. The FDA has not announced a revised time of release. John Murray, member of the Part 11 Working Group (the team at FDA developing the new Part 11), has publicly stated that the timetable f...
209. ...d at clinical study sites. FDA had previously announced that a new Part 11 would be released late 2006. The Agency has since pushed that release date back. The FDA has not announced a revised time of **release**. John Murray, member of the Part 11 Working Group (the team at FDA developing the new Part 11), has publicly stated that the timetable for release is "flexible". 21 CFR Part 11 has the following bene...
210. ...te back. The FDA has not announced a revised time of release. John Murray, member of the Part 11 Working Group (the team at FDA developing the new Part 11), has publicly stated that the timetable for **release** is "flexible". 21 CFR Part 11 has the following benefits: American Pharmacists Association The American Pharmacists Association (APhA, previously known as the American Pharmaceutical Association), fo...
211. ...es the medication according to the treatment schedule, which is an important problem during clinical trials and the treatment of degenerative diseases with relatively few symptoms. Osmotic-controlled **release** oral delivery system The osmotic-controlled release oral delivery system (OROS) is an advanced controlled release oral drug delivery system in the form of a rigid tablet with a semi-permeable outer m...
212. ...e, which is an important problem during clinical trials and the treatment of degenerative diseases with relatively few symptoms. Osmotic-controlled release oral delivery system The osmotic-controlled **release** oral delivery system (OROS) is an advanced controlled release oral drug delivery system in the form of a rigid tablet with a semi-permeable outer membrane and one or more small laser drilled holes in...
213. ...e treatment of degenerative diseases with relatively few symptoms. Osmotic-controlled release oral delivery system The osmotic-controlled release oral delivery system (OROS) is an advanced controlled **release** oral drug delivery system in the form of a rigid tablet with a semi-permeable outer membrane and one or more small laser drilled holes in it. As the tablet passes through the body, water is absorbed...
214. ...er drilled opening(s) in the tablet and into the gastrointestinal tract. OROS is a trademarked name owned by ALZA Corporation, which pioneered the use of osmotic pumps for oral drug delivery. Osmotic **release** systems have a number of major advantages over other controlled-release mechanisms. They are significantly less affected by factors such as pH, food intake, GI motility, and differing intestinal envi...
215. ...OROS is a trademarked name owned by ALZA Corporation, which pioneered the use of osmotic pumps for oral drug delivery. Osmotic release systems have a number of major advantages over other controlled-**release** mechanisms. They are significantly less affected by factors such as pH, food intake, GI motility, and differing intestinal environments. Using an osmotic pump to deliver drugs has additional inherent...
216. ...regarding control over drug delivery rates. This allows for much more precise drug delivery over an extended period of time, which results in much more predictable pharmacokinetics. However, osmotic **release** systems are relatively complicated, somewhat difficult to manufacture, and may cause irritation or even blockage of the GI tract due to prolonged release of irritating drugs from the non-deformable t...
217. ...redictable pharmacokinetics. However, osmotic release systems are relatively complicated, somewhat difficult to manufacture, and may cause irritation or even blockage of the GI tract due to prolonged **release** of irritating drugs from the non-deformable tablet. The Elementary Osmotic Pump (EOP) was developed by ALZA in 1974, and was the first practical example of an osmotic pump based drug release system f...
218. ...rolonged release of irritating drugs from the non-deformable tablet. The Elementary Osmotic Pump (EOP) was developed by ALZA in 1974, and was the first practical example of an osmotic pump based drug **release** system for oral use. It was introduced to the market in the early 1980s in Osmosin (indomethacin) and Acutrim (phenylpropanolamine), but unexpectedly severe issues with GI irritation and cases of GI...
219. ...rck & Co. later developed the Controlled-Porosity Osmotic Pump (CPOP) with the intention of addressing some of the issues that led to Osmosin's withdrawal via a new approach to the final stage of the **release** mechanism. Unlike the EOP, the CPOP had no pre-formed hole in the outer shell for the drug to be expelled out of. Instead, the CPOP's semipermeable membrane was designed to form numerous small pores...
220. ...te pharmacokinetic profiles were evaluated and tested in an attempt to determine the optimal way to deliver the drug, which was especially important given the puzzling failure of an existing extended-**release** formulation of methylphenidate (Ritalin SR) to act as expected. The zero-order (flat) release profile that the PPOP was optimal at delivering failed to maintain its efficacy over time, which suggeste...
221. ...ay to deliver the drug, which was especially important given the puzzling failure of an existing extended-release formulation of methylphenidate (Ritalin SR) to act as expected. The zero-order (flat) **release** profile that the PPOP was optimal at delivering failed to maintain its efficacy over time, which suggested that acute tolerance to methylphenidate formed over the course of the day. This explained wh...
222. ...y to maintain clinical effect. Trials designed to test this hypothesis were successful, and ALZA subsequently developed a modified PPOP design that utilized an overcoat of methylphenidate designed to **release** immediately and rapidly raise serum levels, followed by 10 hours of first-order (ascending) drug delivery from the modified PPOP design. This design was called the Push-Stick Osmotic Pump (PSOP), and...
223. ...cal crystallization can have some advantages for drug formulation. A tablet is usually a compressed preparation that contains: The dissolution time can be modified for a rapid effect or for sustained **release**. Special coatings can make the tablet resistant to the stomach acids such that it only disintegrates in the duodenum, jejunum and colon as a result of enzyme action or alkaline pH. Pills can be coate...
224. ...e action or alkaline pH. Pills can be coated with sugar, varnish, or wax to disguise the taste. Pharmaceutical ingredients such as APIs can also be coated with a ResonantAcoustic mixer for controlled **release** and taste-masking.  A capsule is a gelatinous envelope enclosing the active substance. Capsules can be designed to remain intact for some hours after ingestion in order to delay absorption. They may...
225. ...tinous envelope enclosing the active substance. Capsules can be designed to remain intact for some hours after ingestion in order to delay absorption. They may also contain a mixture of slow and fast **release** particles to produce rapid and sustained absorption in the same dose. There are a number of methods by which tablets and capsules can be modified in order to allow for sustained release of the active...
226. ...slow and fast release particles to produce rapid and sustained absorption in the same dose. There are a number of methods by which tablets and capsules can be modified in order to allow for sustained **release** of the active compound as it moves through the digestive tract. One of the most common methods is to embed the active ingredient in an insoluble porous matrix, such that the dissolving drug must make...
227. ...he most common methods is to embed the active ingredient in an insoluble porous matrix, such that the dissolving drug must make its way out of the matrix before it can be absorbed. In other sustained **release** formulations the matrix swells to form a gel through which the drug exits. Another method by which sustained release is achieved is through an osmotic controlled-release oral delivery system, where t...
228. ...must make its way out of the matrix before it can be absorbed. In other sustained release formulations the matrix swells to form a gel through which the drug exits. Another method by which sustained **release** is achieved is through an osmotic controlled-release oral delivery system, where the active compound is encased in a water-permeable membrane with a laser drilled hole at one end. As water passes thr...
229. ...absorbed. In other sustained release formulations the matrix swells to form a gel through which the drug exits. Another method by which sustained release is achieved is through an osmotic controlled-**release** oral delivery system, where the active compound is encased in a water-permeable membrane with a laser drilled hole at one end. As water passes through the membrane the drug is pushed out through the...
230. ...yocardial perfusion imaging and mercapto acetyl triglycine for MAG3 scan to measure renal function. In 1970, Eckelman and Richards presented the first "kit" containing all the ingredients required to **release** the Tc, "milked" from the generator, in the chemical form to be administered to the patient. Technetium-99m is used in 20 million diagnostic nuclear medical procedures every year. Approximately 85% o...
231. ...try of Home Affairs, is tasked with combating drug trafficking and assisting international use of illegal substances under the provisions of "Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act". Modified-**release** dosage Modified-release dosage is a mechanism that (in contrast to immediate-release dosage) delivers a drug with a delay after its administration (delayed-release dosage) or for a prolonged period o...
232. ...tasked with combating drug trafficking and assisting international use of illegal substances under the provisions of "Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act". Modified-release dosage Modified-**release** dosage is a mechanism that (in contrast to immediate-release dosage) delivers a drug with a delay after its administration (delayed-release dosage) or for a prolonged period of time (extended-release...
233. ...ional use of illegal substances under the provisions of "Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act". Modified-release dosage Modified-release dosage is a mechanism that (in contrast to immediate-**release** dosage) delivers a drug with a delay after its administration (delayed-release dosage) or for a prolonged period of time (extended-release [ER, XR, XL] dosage) or to a specific target in the body (ta...
234. ...chotropic Substances Act". Modified-release dosage Modified-release dosage is a mechanism that (in contrast to immediate-release dosage) delivers a drug with a delay after its administration (delayed-**release** dosage) or for a prolonged period of time (extended-release [ER, XR, XL] dosage) or to a specific target in the body (targeted-release dosage). Sustained-release dosage forms are dosage forms designe...
235. ...release dosage is a mechanism that (in contrast to immediate-release dosage) delivers a drug with a delay after its administration (delayed-release dosage) or for a prolonged period of time (extended-**release** [ER, XR, XL] dosage) or to a specific target in the body (targeted-release dosage). Sustained-release dosage forms are dosage forms designed to release (liberate) a drug at a predetermined rate in or...
236. ...) delivers a drug with a delay after its administration (delayed-release dosage) or for a prolonged period of time (extended-release [ER, XR, XL] dosage) or to a specific target in the body (targeted-**release** dosage). Sustained-release dosage forms are dosage forms designed to release (liberate) a drug at a predetermined rate in order to maintain a constant drug concentration for a specific period of time...
237. ...lay after its administration (delayed-release dosage) or for a prolonged period of time (extended-release [ER, XR, XL] dosage) or to a specific target in the body (targeted-release dosage). Sustained-**release** dosage forms are dosage forms designed to release (liberate) a drug at a predetermined rate in order to maintain a constant drug concentration for a specific period of time with minimum side effects....
238. ...ge) or for a prolonged period of time (extended-release [ER, XR, XL] dosage) or to a specific target in the body (targeted-release dosage). Sustained-release dosage forms are dosage forms designed to **release** (liberate) a drug at a predetermined rate in order to maintain a constant drug concentration for a specific period of time with minimum side effects. This can be achieved through a variety of formula...
239. ...or a specific period of time with minimum side effects. This can be achieved through a variety of formulations, including liposomes and drug-polymer conjugates (an example being hydrogels). Sustained **release**'s definition is more akin to a "controlled release" rather than "sustained". Extended-release dosage consists of either sustained-release (SR) or controlled-release (CR) dosage. SR maintains drug rel...
240. ...cts. This can be achieved through a variety of formulations, including liposomes and drug-polymer conjugates (an example being hydrogels). Sustained release's definition is more akin to a "controlled **release**" rather than "sustained". Extended-release dosage consists of either sustained-release (SR) or controlled-release (CR) dosage. SR maintains drug release over a sustained period but not at a constant...
241. ...of formulations, including liposomes and drug-polymer conjugates (an example being hydrogels). Sustained release's definition is more akin to a "controlled release" rather than "sustained". Extended-**release** dosage consists of either sustained-release (SR) or controlled-release (CR) dosage. SR maintains drug release over a sustained period but not at a constant rate. CR maintains drug release over a sust...
242. ...ug-polymer conjugates (an example being hydrogels). Sustained release's definition is more akin to a "controlled release" rather than "sustained". Extended-release dosage consists of either sustained-**release** (SR) or controlled-release (CR) dosage. SR maintains drug release over a sustained period but not at a constant rate. CR maintains drug release over a sustained period at a nearly constant rate. Some...
243. ...xample being hydrogels). Sustained release's definition is more akin to a "controlled release" rather than "sustained". Extended-release dosage consists of either sustained-release (SR) or controlled-**release** (CR) dosage. SR maintains drug release over a sustained period but not at a constant rate. CR maintains drug release over a sustained period at a nearly constant rate. Sometimes these and other terms...
244. ...ase's definition is more akin to a "controlled release" rather than "sustained". Extended-release dosage consists of either sustained-release (SR) or controlled-release (CR) dosage. SR maintains drug **release** over a sustained period but not at a constant rate. CR maintains drug release over a sustained period at a nearly constant rate. Sometimes these and other terms are treated as synonyms, but the Unite...
245. ...". Extended-release dosage consists of either sustained-release (SR) or controlled-release (CR) dosage. SR maintains drug release over a sustained period but not at a constant rate. CR maintains drug **release** over a sustained period at a nearly constant rate. Sometimes these and other terms are treated as synonyms, but the United States Food and Drug Administration has in fact defined most of these as dif...
246. ...blet" is used, by analogy to the term for an injection formulation of a drug which releases slowly over time, but this term is not medically or pharmaceutically standard for oral medication. Modified-**release** dosage and its variants are mechanisms used in tablets (pills) and capsules to dissolve a drug over time in order to be released more slowly and steadily into the bloodstream, while having the advant...
247. ...s) and capsules to dissolve a drug over time in order to be released more slowly and steadily into the bloodstream, while having the advantage of being taken at less frequent intervals than immediate-**release** (IR) formulations of the same drug. For example, orally administered extended-release morphine can enable certain chronic pain patients to take only tablets per day, rather than needing to redose eve...
248. ...teadily into the bloodstream, while having the advantage of being taken at less frequent intervals than immediate-release (IR) formulations of the same drug. For example, orally administered extended-**release** morphine can enable certain chronic pain patients to take only tablets per day, rather than needing to redose every as is typical with standard-release morphine tablets. Most commonly it refers to ti...
249. ...drug. For example, orally administered extended-release morphine can enable certain chronic pain patients to take only tablets per day, rather than needing to redose every as is typical with standard-**release** morphine tablets. Most commonly it refers to time-dependent release in oral dose formulations. Timed release has several distinct variants such as sustained release where prolonged release is intende...
250. ...enable certain chronic pain patients to take only tablets per day, rather than needing to redose every as is typical with standard-release morphine tablets. Most commonly it refers to time-dependent **release** in oral dose formulations. Timed release has several distinct variants such as sustained release where prolonged release is intended, pulse release, delayed release (e.g. to target different regions...
251. ...take only tablets per day, rather than needing to redose every as is typical with standard-release morphine tablets. Most commonly it refers to time-dependent release in oral dose formulations. Timed **release** has several distinct variants such as sustained release where prolonged release is intended, pulse release, delayed release (e.g. to target different regions of the GI tract) etc. A distinction of co...
252. ...every as is typical with standard-release morphine tablets. Most commonly it refers to time-dependent release in oral dose formulations. Timed release has several distinct variants such as sustained **release** where prolonged release is intended, pulse release, delayed release (e.g. to target different regions of the GI tract) etc. A distinction of controlled release is that it not only prolongs action, bu...
253. ...h standard-release morphine tablets. Most commonly it refers to time-dependent release in oral dose formulations. Timed release has several distinct variants such as sustained release where prolonged **release** is intended, pulse release, delayed release (e.g. to target different regions of the GI tract) etc. A distinction of controlled release is that it not only prolongs action, but it attempts to maintai...
254. ...tablets. Most commonly it refers to time-dependent release in oral dose formulations. Timed release has several distinct variants such as sustained release where prolonged release is intended, pulse **release**, delayed release (e.g. to target different regions of the GI tract) etc. A distinction of controlled release is that it not only prolongs action, but it attempts to maintain drug levels within the th...
255. ...mmonly it refers to time-dependent release in oral dose formulations. Timed release has several distinct variants such as sustained release where prolonged release is intended, pulse release, delayed **release** (e.g. to target different regions of the GI tract) etc. A distinction of controlled release is that it not only prolongs action, but it attempts to maintain drug levels within the therapeutic window...
256. ...ral distinct variants such as sustained release where prolonged release is intended, pulse release, delayed release (e.g. to target different regions of the GI tract) etc. A distinction of controlled **release** is that it not only prolongs action, but it attempts to maintain drug levels within the therapeutic window to avoid potentially hazardous peaks in drug concentration following ingestion or injection...
257. ...ion following ingestion or injection and to maximize therapeutic efficiency. In addition to pills, the mechanism can also apply to capsules and injectable drug carriers (that often have an additional **release** function), forms of controlled release medicines include gels, implants and devices (e.g. the vaginal ring and contraceptive implant) and transdermal patches. Examples for cosmetic, personal care, an...
258. ...d to maximize therapeutic efficiency. In addition to pills, the mechanism can also apply to capsules and injectable drug carriers (that often have an additional release function), forms of controlled **release** medicines include gels, implants and devices (e.g. the vaginal ring and contraceptive implant) and transdermal patches. Examples for cosmetic, personal care, and food science applications often centr...
259. ...s, implants and devices (e.g. the vaginal ring and contraceptive implant) and transdermal patches. Examples for cosmetic, personal care, and food science applications often centre on odour or flavour **release**. The release technology scientific and industrial community is represented by the Controlled Release Society (CRS). The CRS is the worldwide society for delivery science and technologies. CRS serves...
260. ...nd devices (e.g. the vaginal ring and contraceptive implant) and transdermal patches. Examples for cosmetic, personal care, and food science applications often centre on odour or flavour release. The **release** technology scientific and industrial community is represented by the Controlled Release Society (CRS). The CRS is the worldwide society for delivery science and technologies. CRS serves more than 1,6...
261. ...amples for cosmetic, personal care, and food science applications often centre on odour or flavour release. The release technology scientific and industrial community is represented by the Controlled **Release** Society (CRS). The CRS is the worldwide society for delivery science and technologies. CRS serves more than 1,600 members from more than 50 countries. Two-thirds of CRS membership is represented by i...
262. ...1,600 members from more than 50 countries. Two-thirds of CRS membership is represented by industry and one-third represents academia and government. CRS is affiliated with the "Journal of Controlled **Release**" and "Drug Delivery and Translational Research" scientific journals. There is no industry standard for these abbreviations, and confusion and misreading have sometimes caused prescribing errors. Clea...
263. ...me drugs with multiple formulations, putting the meaning in parentheses is advisable. A few other abbreviations are similar to these (in that they may serve as suffixes) but refer to dose rather than **release** rate. They include "ES" and "XS" (Extra Strength). Today, most time-release drugs are formulated so that the active ingredient is embedded in a matrix of insoluble substance(s) (various: some acrylic...
264. ...dvisable. A few other abbreviations are similar to these (in that they may serve as suffixes) but refer to dose rather than release rate. They include "ES" and "XS" (Extra Strength). Today, most time-**release** drugs are formulated so that the active ingredient is embedded in a matrix of insoluble substance(s) (various: some acrylics, even chitin; these substances are often patented) such that the dissolvin...
265. ...nd layering it with insoluble substances to form a microsphere, one can obtain more consistent and replicable dissolution rates in a convenient format that can be mixed and matched with other instant **release** pharmaceutical ingredients into any two piece gelatin capsule. There are certain considerations for the formation of sustained-release formulation: The biological half-life of the drug refers to the...
266. ...nvenient format that can be mixed and matched with other instant release pharmaceutical ingredients into any two piece gelatin capsule. There are certain considerations for the formation of sustained-**release** formulation: The biological half-life of the drug refers to the drug's elimination from the bloodstream which can be caused by metabolism, urine, and other forms of excretion. If the active compound...
267. ...ropriate half-lives used to apply sustained methods are typically 3–4 hours and a drug dose greater than 0.5 grams is too high. The therapeutic index also factors whether a drug can be used as a time **release** drug. A drug with a thin therapeutic range, or small therapeutic index, will be determined unfit for a sustained release mechanism in partial fear of dose dumping which can prove fatal at the conditi...
268. ...high. The therapeutic index also factors whether a drug can be used as a time release drug. A drug with a thin therapeutic range, or small therapeutic index, will be determined unfit for a sustained **release** mechanism in partial fear of dose dumping which can prove fatal at the conditions mentioned. For a drug that is made to be released over time, the objective is to stay within the therapeutic range as...
269. ...tions mentioned. For a drug that is made to be released over time, the objective is to stay within the therapeutic range as long as needed. There are many different methods used to obtain a sustained **release**. Diffusion systems' rate release is dependent on the rate at which the drug dissolves through a barrier which is usually a type of polymer. Diffusion systems can be broken into two subcategories, res...
270. ...is made to be released over time, the objective is to stay within the therapeutic range as long as needed. There are many different methods used to obtain a sustained release. Diffusion systems' rate **release** is dependent on the rate at which the drug dissolves through a barrier which is usually a type of polymer. Diffusion systems can be broken into two subcategories, reservoir devices and matrix devices...
271. ...olymer. Diffusion systems can be broken into two subcategories, reservoir devices and matrix devices. Dissolution systems must have the system dissolved slowly in order for the drug to have sustained **release** properties which can be achieved by using appropriate salts and/or derivatives as well as coating the drug with a dissolving material. It is used for drug compounds with high solubility in water. Whe...
272. ...atives as well as coating the drug with a dissolving material. It is used for drug compounds with high solubility in water. When the drug is covered with some slow dissolving coat, it will eventually **release** the drug. Instead of diffusion, the drug release depends on the solubility and thickness of the coating. Because of this mechanism, the dissolution will be the rate limiting factor for drug release....
273. ...ing material. It is used for drug compounds with high solubility in water. When the drug is covered with some slow dissolving coat, it will eventually release the drug. Instead of diffusion, the drug **release** depends on the solubility and thickness of the coating. Because of this mechanism, the dissolution will be the rate limiting factor for drug release. Dissolution systems can be broken down to subcate...
274. ...y release the drug. Instead of diffusion, the drug release depends on the solubility and thickness of the coating. Because of this mechanism, the dissolution will be the rate limiting factor for drug **release**. Dissolution systems can be broken down to subcategories called reservoir devices and matrix devices. Osmotic controlled-release oral delivery systems (OROS) have the form of a rigid tablet with a se...
275. ...s mechanism, the dissolution will be the rate limiting factor for drug release. Dissolution systems can be broken down to subcategories called reservoir devices and matrix devices. Osmotic controlled-**release** oral delivery systems (OROS) have the form of a rigid tablet with a semi-permeable outer membrane and one or more small laser drilled holes in it. As the tablet passes through the body, water is abso...
276. ...re is used to push the active drug through the opening(s) in the tablet. OROS is a trademarked name owned by ALZA Corporation, which pioneered the use of osmotic pumps for oral drug delivery. Osmotic **release** systems have a number of major advantages over other controlled-release mechanisms. They are significantly less affected by factors such as pH, food intake, GI motility, and differing intestinal envi...
277. ...OROS is a trademarked name owned by ALZA Corporation, which pioneered the use of osmotic pumps for oral drug delivery. Osmotic release systems have a number of major advantages over other controlled-**release** mechanisms. They are significantly less affected by factors such as pH, food intake, GI motility, and differing intestinal environments. Using an osmotic pump to deliver drugs has additional inherent...
278. ...regarding control over drug delivery rates. This allows for much more precise drug delivery over an extended period of time, which results in much more predictable pharmacokinetics. However, osmotic **release** systems are relatively complicated, somewhat difficult to manufacture, and may cause irritation or even blockage of the GI tract due to prolonged release of irritating drugs from the non-deformable t...
279. ...redictable pharmacokinetics. However, osmotic release systems are relatively complicated, somewhat difficult to manufacture, and may cause irritation or even blockage of the GI tract due to prolonged **release** of irritating drugs from the non-deformable tablet. In the ion-exchange method, the resins are cross-linked water-insoluble polymers that contain ionisable functional groups that form a repeating pat...
280. ...pattern of polymers, creating a polymer chain. The drug is attached to the resin and is released when an appropriate interaction of ions and ion exchange groups occur. The area and length of the drug **release** and number of cross-link polymers dictate the rate at which the drug is released, determining the SR effect. A floating system is a system where it floats on gastric fluids due to low density. The de...
281. ...w density. The density of the gastric fluids is about 1 g/mL; thus, the drug/tablet administered must have a smaller density. The buoyancy will allow the system to float to the top of the stomach and **release** at a slower rate without worry of excreting it. This system requires that there are enough gastric fluids present as well as food. Many types of forms of drugs use this method such as powders, capsul...
282. ...r, this system has several subcategories: hydrophobic matrices, lipid matrices, hydrophilic matrices, biodegradable matrices, and mineral matrices. Examples of stimuli that may be used to bring about **release** include pH, enzymes, light, magnetic fields, temperature, ultrasonics, osmosis, cellular traction forces, and electronic control of MEMS and NEMS. Spherical hydrogels, in micro-size (50-600 μm diamet...
283. ...r traction forces, and electronic control of MEMS and NEMS. Spherical hydrogels, in micro-size (50-600 μm diameter) with 3-dimensional cross-linked polymer, can be used as drug carrier to control the **release** of the drug. These hydrogels are called microgels. They may possess a negative charge as example DC-beads. By ion-exchange mechanism, a large amount of oppositely charged amphiphilic drugs can be loa...
284. ...ed microgels. They may possess a negative charge as example DC-beads. By ion-exchange mechanism, a large amount of oppositely charged amphiphilic drugs can be loaded inside these microgels. Then, the **release** of these drugs can be controlled by a specific triggering factor like pH, ionic strength or temperature. Some time release formulations do not work properly if split, such as controlled-release table...
285. ...ly charged amphiphilic drugs can be loaded inside these microgels. Then, the release of these drugs can be controlled by a specific triggering factor like pH, ionic strength or temperature. Some time **release** formulations do not work properly if split, such as controlled-release tablet coatings, while other formulations such as micro-encapsulation still work if the microcapsules inside are swallowed whole...
286. ..., the release of these drugs can be controlled by a specific triggering factor like pH, ionic strength or temperature. Some time release formulations do not work properly if split, such as controlled-**release** tablet coatings, while other formulations such as micro-encapsulation still work if the microcapsules inside are swallowed whole. Among the health information technology (HIT) that pharmacists use ar...
287. ...so that warning stickers can be printed at the point of dispensing, to be stuck on the pill bottle. Pharmaceutical companies that do not supply a range of half-dose and quarter-dose versions of time-**release** tablets can make it difficult for patients to be slowly tapered off their drugs. The earliest SR drugs are associated with a patent in 1938 by Israel Lipowski, who coated pellets which led to coating...
288. ...ients to be slowly tapered off their drugs. The earliest SR drugs are associated with a patent in 1938 by Israel Lipowski, who coated pellets which led to coating particles. The science of controlled **release** developed further with more oral sustained-release products in the late 1940s and early 1950s, the development of controlled release of marine anti-foulants in the 1950s, and controlled release ferti...
289. ...liest SR drugs are associated with a patent in 1938 by Israel Lipowski, who coated pellets which led to coating particles. The science of controlled release developed further with more oral sustained-**release** products in the late 1940s and early 1950s, the development of controlled release of marine anti-foulants in the 1950s, and controlled release fertilizer in the 1970s where sustained and controlled d...
290. ...pellets which led to coating particles. The science of controlled release developed further with more oral sustained-release products in the late 1940s and early 1950s, the development of controlled **release** of marine anti-foulants in the 1950s, and controlled release fertilizer in the 1970s where sustained and controlled delivery of nutrients was achieved following a single application to the soil. Deli...
291. ...olled release developed further with more oral sustained-release products in the late 1940s and early 1950s, the development of controlled release of marine anti-foulants in the 1950s, and controlled **release** fertilizer in the 1970s where sustained and controlled delivery of nutrients was achieved following a single application to the soil. Delivery is usually effected by dissolution, degradation, or disi...
292. ...is usually effected by dissolution, degradation, or disintegration of an excipient in which the active compound is formulated. Enteric coating and other encapsulation technologies can further modify **release** profiles. NONMEM NONMEM is a non-linear mixed-effects modeling software package developed by Stuart L. Beal and Lewis B. Sheiner in the late 1970s at University of California, San Francisco, and expa...
293. ...2023, Plasterk was appointed scout during the 2023–2024 cabinet formation, and he later became informateur for a coalition consisting of the PVV, the VVD, NSC, and BBB. The week before Plasterk would **release** his report – in February 2024 – NSC pulled out of the talks, citing financial setbacks and Plasterk's delayed information about them. Plasterk called the statement "muddled" and denied having withhel...
294. ...alts remains unclear but some insights have been gained. It was formerly thought that they function as delivery systems by generating depots that trap antigens at the injection site, providing a slow **release** that continues to stimulate the immune system. However, studies have shown that surgical removal of these depots had no impact on the magnitude of IgG1 response. Alum can trigger dendritic cells and...
295. ...esponse. A second mechanism depends on alum killing immune cells at the injection site although researchers aren't sure exactly how alum kills these cells. It has been speculated that the dying cells **release** DNA which serves as an immune alarm. Some studies found that DNA from dying cells causes them to adhere more tightly to helper T cells which ultimately leads to an increased release of antibodies by...
296. ...t the dying cells release DNA which serves as an immune alarm. Some studies found that DNA from dying cells causes them to adhere more tightly to helper T cells which ultimately leads to an increased **release** of antibodies by B cells. No matter what the mechanism is, alum is not a perfect adjuvant because it does not work with all antigens (e.g. malaria and tuberculosis). However, recent research indicate...
297. ...rculosis" in mineral oil developed in 1930. It is not safe enough for human use. A version without the bacteria, that is only oil in water, is known as Freund's incomplete adjuvant. It helps vaccines **release** antigens for a longer time. Despite the side effects, its potential benefit has led to a few clinical trials. Squalene is a naturally-occurring organic compound used in human and animal vaccines. Squ...
298. ...process carried out by both dendritic cells and macrophages is termed antigen presentation and represents a physical link between the innate and adaptive immune responses. Upon activation, mast cells **release** heparin and histamine to effectively increase trafficking to and seal off the site of infection to allow immune cells of both systems to clear the area of pathogens. In addition, mast cells also rele...
299. ...ease heparin and histamine to effectively increase trafficking to and seal off the site of infection to allow immune cells of both systems to clear the area of pathogens. In addition, mast cells also **release** chemokines which result in the positive chemotaxis of other immune cells of both the innate and adaptive immune responses to the infected area. Due to the variety of mechanisms and links between the...
300. ...for all individuals is extremely challenging because body weight and size impacts how the dose acts within the body. Another factor is the duration of exposure. Some drugs or supplements have a slow-**release** feature in which portions of the medication are metabolized at different times, which changes the impacts the active ingredients have on the body. Some substances are meant to be taken in small doses...
301. ...B transmission and mortality. Indeed, of the 80 newly released TB-infected inmates in Fry et al.'s study, 73.8% did not report visiting a community dispensary for further treatment. Ruddy et al. cite **release** from facilities as one of the main causes of interruption in prisoner's TB treatment, in addition to non-compliance within the prison and upon reintegration into civilian life. Fry et al.'s study als...
302. ...ive in the late 2000s. In order for the complex to be stable, the free energy of complex by definition must be lower than the solvent separated molecules. The binding may be primarily entropy-driven (**release** of ordered solvent molecules around the isolated molecule that results in a net increase of entropy of the system). When the solvent is water, this is known as the hydrophobic effect. Alternatively,...
303. ...characterized the proteins required for starting apoptosis, including cytochrome c, Bcl-2, APAF1, and pro-caspase-9. In 1997, his group reported the activation steps of apoptosis: Bcl-2 regulates the **release** of cytochrome c from the mitochondria to the cytosol, then cytochrome c binds to APAF1 and forms a protein complex called the apoptosome. The apoptosome recruits and cleaves procaspase-9 to the activ...
304. ...ng list of ROAs is not exhaustive. The placement of the bolus dose depends on the systemic levels of the contents desired throughout the body. An intramuscular injection of vaccines allows for a slow **release** of the antigen to stimulate the body's immune system and to allow time for developing antibodies. Subcutaneous injections are used by heroin addicts (called 'skin popping', referring to the bump form...
305. ...system and to allow time for developing antibodies. Subcutaneous injections are used by heroin addicts (called 'skin popping', referring to the bump formed by the bolus of heroin), to sustain a slow **release** that staves off withdrawal symptoms without producing euphoria. A bolus delivered directly to the veins through an intravenous drip allows a much faster delivery which quickly raises the concentratio...
306. ...which is a dose of slow-acting insulin or the continuous pumping of a small quantity of fast-acting insulin to cover the glucose output of the liver). In veterinary medicine a "bolus" is a large time-**release** tablet that stays in the rumen of cattle, goats, and sheep. It can also refer to a dose of liquid injected subcutaneously with a hypodermic needle, such as saline solution administered either to coun...
307. ...ibrary of Medicine (NLM). In 2017, FDB acquired Polygot Systems, which simplifies drug information for patients and translates that information into 21 languages. In 2018, FDB partnered with PetIQ to **release** the first veterinary medication database to provide information on pet medications structured for integration into pharmacy systems. Beginning in 2020, FDB partnered with Amazon and its Alexa devices...
308. ...ed in State College, Pennsylvania. They had a son and two daughters. Dissolution testing In the pharmaceutical industry, drug "dissolution testing" is routinely used to provide critical in vitro drug **release** information for both quality control purposes, i.e., to assess batch-to-batch consistency of solid oral dosage forms such as tablets, and drug development, i.e., to predict in vivo drug release profi...
309. ...drug release information for both quality control purposes, i.e., to assess batch-to-batch consistency of solid oral dosage forms such as tablets, and drug development, i.e., to predict in vivo drug **release** profiles. There are three typical situations where dissolution testing plays a vital role: (i) formulation and optimization decisions: during product development, for products where dissolution perfo...
310. ...rity of in vitro dissolution profiles between the reference product and its generic or modified version are one of the key requirements for regulatory approval decisions. (iii) Product compliance and **release** decisions: during routine manufacturing, dissolution outcomes are very often one of the criteria used to make product release decisions. The main objective of developing and evaluating an IVIVC is to...
311. ...uirements for regulatory approval decisions. (iii) Product compliance and release decisions: during routine manufacturing, dissolution outcomes are very often one of the criteria used to make product **release** decisions. The main objective of developing and evaluating an IVIVC is to establish the dissolution test as a surrogate for human studies, as stated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Analyti...
312. ...ure and then the dissolution apparatus is operated. Sample solutions collected from dissolution testing are commonly analyzed by HPLC or Ultraviolet–visible spectroscopy. There are criteria known as '**release** specifications' that samples tested must meet statistically, both as individual values and as average of the whole. One such criteria is the parameter "Q", which is a percentage value denoting the qu...
313. ...n either store the iron as ferritin, which is accomplished by Fe binding to apoferritin (in which case the iron will leave the body when the cell dies and is sloughed off into feces), or the cell can **release** it into the body via the only known iron exporter in mammals, ferroportin. Hephaestin, a ferroxidase that can oxidize Fe to Fe and is found mainly in the small intestine, helps ferroportin transfer i...
314. ...types such as hepatocytes, is tightly controlled at the transcriptional level and it represents the link between cellular and systemic iron homeostasis due to hepcidin's role as "gatekeeper" of iron **release** from enterocytes into the rest of the body. Erythroblasts produce erythroferrone, a hormone which inhibits hepcidin and so increases the availability of iron needed for hemoglobin synthesis. Although...
315. ...sed clinically was tetraethylammonium, although it was soon superseded by better drugs. Nicotinic receptor antagonists: Nicotinic receptor agonists (acting through depolarization block): Blocking ACh **release** in autonomic ganglia (although these have many other actions elsewhere): Ganglionic blockers are used less frequently now than they were in the past, because antihypertensives with fewer side effects...
316. ...r testing. There are anticancer, antimicrobial, antiviral, anti-inflammatory, antiparasitic, anticholesterolemic, and many other differ assays. For MTT assay and cytosolic Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) **release** are common cytotoxicity or cell viability assays. A common problem that plagues drug development is obtaining a sustainable supply of the compound. Compounds isolated from invertebrates can be diffic...
317. ...and resources and avoiding unnecessary duplication of human or animal testing. The FDA has released a total of four draft guidelines related to biosimilar or follow-on biologics development. Upon the **release** of the first three guidance documents the FDA held a public hearing on May 11, 2012. In 2018, the FDA released a Biosimilars Action Plan to implement regulations from the BPCI, including limiting the...
318. ...Health Canada's review of the scientific literature confirmed that this is not a claim that it was entitled to make. The company formulated a separate product for this usage. A CV Technologies press **release** explained the change in the dosing regimen as a choice to take a two-tier approach application to Health Canada. In 2015 a class action lawsuit was launched that claimed that the manufacturer misled...
319. ...ed to traditional water filtration methods for dirty water sources. Dose dumping Dose dumping is a phenomenon of drug metabolism in which environmental factors can cause the premature and exaggerated **release** of a drug. This can greatly increase the concentration of a drug in the body and thereby produce adverse effects or even drug-induced toxicity.  Dose dumping is most commonly seen in drugs taken by m...
320. ...same time patients take their medication, they can also ingest other substances like fatty meals or alcohol that increase drug delivery. The substances may act on the drug's capsule to speed up drug **release**, or they may stimulate the body's absorptive surfaces to increase the rate of drug uptake. Dose dumping is a disadvantage found in extended release dosage form. In general, drug companies try to avoi...
321. ...nces may act on the drug's capsule to speed up drug release, or they may stimulate the body's absorptive surfaces to increase the rate of drug uptake. Dose dumping is a disadvantage found in extended **release** dosage form. In general, drug companies try to avoid drugs with significant dose dumping effects. Such drugs are prone to problems and are often pulled from the market. Such was the case with the pai...
322. ...en pulled from the market. Such was the case with the pain medication Palladone Once Daily formulation due to its dose-dumping effects when taken with alcohol. It is by definition an unintended rapid **release** in large amounts of a modified-release dosage due to a co-ingestion with ethanol. Some interactions between alcohol, biological factors and the presentation of the drug can influence the apparition o...
323. ...case with the pain medication Palladone Once Daily formulation due to its dose-dumping effects when taken with alcohol. It is by definition an unintended rapid release in large amounts of a modified-**release** dosage due to a co-ingestion with ethanol. Some interactions between alcohol, biological factors and the presentation of the drug can influence the apparition of AIDD by: Food intake produces dynamic...
324. ...esentation of the drug can influence the apparition of AIDD by: Food intake produces dynamic changes in digestion and pharmacokinetics through a variety of mechanisms, which can produce an unintended **release** of modified-release dosages under certain circumstances. Usually, high fat diets are the most associated with this phenomenon, but there is evidence that standard-composition food can cause this even...
325. ...ug can influence the apparition of AIDD by: Food intake produces dynamic changes in digestion and pharmacokinetics through a variety of mechanisms, which can produce an unintended release of modified-**release** dosages under certain circumstances. Usually, high fat diets are the most associated with this phenomenon, but there is evidence that standard-composition food can cause this even in immediate releas...
326. ...elease dosages under certain circumstances. Usually, high fat diets are the most associated with this phenomenon, but there is evidence that standard-composition food can cause this even in immediate **release** formulations, such as the case of methylphenidate. Some of the mechanisms involved in FIDD are: Particle size Particle size is a notion introduced for comparing dimensions of solid particles ("flecks...
327. ...post-synaptic receptor. The short form (D2Sh) is pre-synaptic and functions as an autoreceptor that regulates the levels of dopamine in the synaptic cleft. Agonism of D2sh receptors inhibits dopamine **release**; antagonism increases dopaminergic release. A third D2(Longer) form differs from the canonical sequence where 270V is replaced by VVQ. DR conformers are equilibrated between two full active (DR) and...
328. ...h) is pre-synaptic and functions as an autoreceptor that regulates the levels of dopamine in the synaptic cleft. Agonism of D2sh receptors inhibits dopamine release; antagonism increases dopaminergic **release**. A third D2(Longer) form differs from the canonical sequence where 270V is replaced by VVQ. DR conformers are equilibrated between two full active (DR) and inactive (DR) states, while in complex with...
329. ...s of animal hormones subjected to ion trapping include Prostacyclin and Leukotrienes. Indirect agonist In pharmacology, an indirect agonist or indirect-acting agonist is a substance that enhances the **release** or action of an endogenous neurotransmitter but has no specific agonist activity at the neurotransmitter receptor itself. Indirect agonists work through varying mechanisms to achieve their effects, i...
330. ...specific agonist activity at the neurotransmitter receptor itself. Indirect agonists work through varying mechanisms to achieve their effects, including transporter blockade, induction of transmitter **release**, and inhibition of transmitter breakdown. Cocaine is a monoamine transporter blocker and, thus, an indirect agonist of dopamine receptors. Cocaine binds the dopamine transporter (DAT), blocking the p...
331. ...uramine is an indirect agonist of serotonin receptors. Fenfluramine binds to the serotonin transporter, blocking serotonin reuptake. However, fenfluramine also acts to induce non-exocytotic serotonin **release**; in a mechanism similar to that of methamphetamine in dopamine neurons, fenfluramine binds to VMAT2, disrupting the compartmentalization of serotonin into vesicles and increasing the concentration of...
332. ...e in dopamine neurons, fenfluramine binds to VMAT2, disrupting the compartmentalization of serotonin into vesicles and increasing the concentration of cytoplasmic serotonin available for drug-induced **release**. Chinese Pharmaceutical Association The Chinese Pharmaceutical Association is the regulatory and professional body for pharmacists and pharmaceutical scientists in China. It is headquartered in Beiji...
333. ...um dose. In order to be able to successfully deliver the drug at the desired tumor location, the magnetic vehicles are responsive to a specific tumor signal, which is commonly a temp- or pH-sensitive **release** due to the higher temperature and lower pH observed in tumor microenvironments, relative to the rest of the body. Different requirements exist for magnetic nanoparticles involved in site-specific tar...
334. ...o prevent toxicity, enhance cell survival and reduce inflammatory responses. 4) Biodegradability to improve clearance from the body. 5) Capability to act as a carrier and exhibit controlled sustained **release**. 6) Structural stability to allow delivery of therapeutic agents after reaching target site. 7) Stealth and functional surface characteristics to prolong the circulation half-life, improve colloidal...
335. ...f Pharmacy, subsequently questioned the novelty of Sneader's research, noting that several earlier articles discussed the Hoffmann–Eichengrün controversy in detail. Bayer countered Sneader in a press **release** stating that according to the records, Hoffmann and Eichengrün held equal positions, and Eichengrün was not Hoffmann's supervisor. Hoffmann was named on the US Patent as the inventor, which Sneader d...
336. ...ures. Vane and Piper tested the biochemical cascade associated with anaphylactic shock (in extracts from guinea pig lungs, applied to tissue from rabbit aortas). They found that aspirin inhibited the **release** of an unidentified chemical generated by guinea pig lungs, a chemical that caused rabbit tissue to contract. By 1971, Vane identified the chemical (which they called "rabbit-aorta contracting substan...
337. ...loodstream—and therefore are not easily removed from the body and may have immediate effect. Exposure to UFPs, even if components are not very toxic, may cause oxidative stress, inflammatory mediator **release**, and could induce heart disease, lung disease, and other systemic effects. The exact mechanism through which UFP exposure leads to health effects remains to be elucidated, but effects on blood pressu...
338. ...a composite character based primarily on Dr. William Canfield and inspired as well by other doctors Crowley worked with. The film premiered at the University of Notre Dame a week before the official **release**, and the family attended the red carpet premier in Manhattan. The film was featured at the Re:Image Film Festival held by the Diocese of Trenton in 2010. Crowley attended the event to speak about his...
339. ...ersonal memoir entitled "Chasing Miracles: The Crowley Family Journey of Strength, Hope and Joy", coauthored with Ken Kurson. It was published by New Market Press in January 2010 to coincide with the **release** of "Extraordinary Measures". Free fraction The free fraction is a parameter in pharmacokinetics and receptor-ligand kinetics. One speaks of two different free fractions: The "plasma free fraction" is...
340. ...able pharmacodynamic effects of a substance on physiological functions in relation to exposure in the therapeutic range and above.”). A major stimulus to the discipline of safety pharmacology was the **release** in 1996 of a draft ‘Points to Consider’ document on QT prolongation by the European Medicines Agency's Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products (CPMP), issued in final form the following year. Th...
341. ...s, or the formation of new blood vessels, plays a major role in the development of a tumor. After a tumor has grown to about the size of a cubic millimeter, its core becomes hypoxic, and it begins to **release** growth factors to recruit new blood vessels that will supply it with oxygen. Inhibiting angiogenesis has been investigated as a means of preventing tumor growth but has not proven to be fully success...
342. ...ly established on 7 June 1946 as a personal chair for the tenure of Ernest Basil Verney. On 11 March 1961 the professorship was re-established on a permanent basis. Microtrol Microtrol is an extended-**release** drug delivery system. It is used in certain medications like Adderall and incorporates two types of beads. The first dissolves immediately, releasing half of the medication, while the second type dis...
343. ...f of the medication, while the second type dissolves much more slowly releasing the remaining medication four hours later. Maximum plasma concentration is achieved in seven hours, compared to instant-**release** which reaches maximum concentration in three hours. Microtrol is manufactured by Supernus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Agonist-antagonist In pharmacology the term agonist-antagonist or mixed agonist/antagon...
344. ...romocytoma is a disease in which a catecholamine secreting tumor develops. Specifically, norepinephrine and epinephrine are secreted by these tumors, either continuously or intermittently. The excess **release** of these catecholamines increases central nervous system stimulation, thus causing blood vessels to increase in vascular resistance, and ultimately giving rise to hypertension. In addition, patients...
345. ...GPCRs, there are large differences in their mechanism of action. Specifically, α receptors are characterized as G GPCRs, signaling through Phospholipase C to increase IP and DAG, thus increasing the **release** of calcium. Meanwhile, α receptors are labeled as G GPCRs, which signal through adenylyl cyclase to decrease cAMP. Because the α and α receptors have different mechanisms of action, their antagonists...
346. ...s, which signal through adenylyl cyclase to decrease cAMP. Because the α and α receptors have different mechanisms of action, their antagonists also have different effects. α blockers can inhibit the **release** of IP and DAG to decrease calcium release, thus, decreasing overall signaling. On the other hand, α blockers prevent the reduction of cAMP, thus leading to an increase in overall signaling. Microdisp...
347. ...o decrease cAMP. Because the α and α receptors have different mechanisms of action, their antagonists also have different effects. α blockers can inhibit the release of IP and DAG to decrease calcium **release**, thus, decreasing overall signaling. On the other hand, α blockers prevent the reduction of cAMP, thus leading to an increase in overall signaling. Microdispensing Microdispensing is the technique of...
348. ...articular an increase in QT interval) and EEG abnormalities (including abnormal quantified EEG) may occur during early withdrawal. Dysfunction of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis and increased **release** of corticotropin-releasing hormone occur during both acute as well as protracted abstinence from alcohol and contribute to both acute and protracted withdrawal symptoms. Anhedonia/dysphoria symptoms,...
349. ...are essential for the sustenance of the individual (such as eating) or of the preservation of the species (such as sexual reproduction). Food intake or sexual stimuli then lead to endorphin regulated **release** of dopamine in core substrates of the reward processing system, which subsequently activate craving sensations. The development of addictions is then directly related to the acquired or genetic abuse...
350. ...s products were exported to aid the war efforts overseas. Tablets for oral consumption of medication have been utilized since approximately 1500 B.C.; however, for a long time the only method of drug **release** was immediate release, meaning all of the medication is released in the body at once. In the 1950s, sustained release technology was developed. Through mechanisms such as osmosis and diffusion, pills...
351. ...ed to aid the war efforts overseas. Tablets for oral consumption of medication have been utilized since approximately 1500 B.C.; however, for a long time the only method of drug release was immediate **release**, meaning all of the medication is released in the body at once. In the 1950s, sustained release technology was developed. Through mechanisms such as osmosis and diffusion, pills were designed that co...
352. ...d since approximately 1500 B.C.; however, for a long time the only method of drug release was immediate release, meaning all of the medication is released in the body at once. In the 1950s, sustained **release** technology was developed. Through mechanisms such as osmosis and diffusion, pills were designed that could release the medication over a 12-hour to 24-hour period. Smith, Kline & French developed one...
353. ...aning all of the medication is released in the body at once. In the 1950s, sustained release technology was developed. Through mechanisms such as osmosis and diffusion, pills were designed that could **release** the medication over a 12-hour to 24-hour period. Smith, Kline & French developed one of the first major successful sustained release technologies. Their formulation consisted of a collection of small...
354. ...isms such as osmosis and diffusion, pills were designed that could release the medication over a 12-hour to 24-hour period. Smith, Kline & French developed one of the first major successful sustained **release** technologies. Their formulation consisted of a collection of small tablets taken at the same time, with varying amounts of wax coating that allowed some tablets to dissolve in the body faster than ot...
355. ...onsisted of a collection of small tablets taken at the same time, with varying amounts of wax coating that allowed some tablets to dissolve in the body faster than others. The result was a continuous **release** of the drug as it travelled through the intestinal tract. Although modern day research focuses on extending the controlled release timescale to the order of months, once-a-day and twice-a-day pills a...
356. ...dissolve in the body faster than others. The result was a continuous release of the drug as it travelled through the intestinal tract. Although modern day research focuses on extending the controlled **release** timescale to the order of months, once-a-day and twice-a-day pills are still the most widely utilized controlled drug release method. In 1980, the International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering...
357. ...l tract. Although modern day research focuses on extending the controlled release timescale to the order of months, once-a-day and twice-a-day pills are still the most widely utilized controlled drug **release** method. In 1980, the International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering was formed to support and guide professionals in the pharmaceutical industry through all parts of the process of bringing new...
358. ...persistence across a 3.5 cm radius for 120 hours and a cell density ~50% of other factor levels (LB media only, unfunctionalized silk, and Levofloxacin doped silk) with p ≤ 0.01. A maximum sustained **release** of Levofloxacin from the fiber of 5 days was achieved. Spider silk is one of the earliest known dermal patches. Primarily used for wound binding, the glycoprotein adhesive found on the capture spiral...
359. ...opolymers normally have good dispersing properties and are often well suited when deposit problems are an issue. Alkyl polyacrylates are suitable for use as defoamers in non-aqueous systems where air **release** is more important than the breakdown of surface foam. These defoamers are often delivered in a solvent carrier like petroleum distillates. The most noticeable form of foam is foam floating on the sto...
360. ...udy, it showed a statistically significant increase in cardiovascular risk when taking rofecoxib compared to placebo beginning after 18 months of treatment. Then on 30 September Merck gave out a news **release** announcing their voluntary worldwide withdrawal of Vioxx. Some studies of other coxibs have also shown increase in the risk of cardiovascular events, while others have not. For instance, the Adenoma...
361. ...are mostly found in the heart, adrenal glands, uterus, ovaries, kidneys and brain. Most of the known actions of Ang II are mediated through the AT receptors, for example vasoconstriction, aldosterone **release**, renal sodium reabsorption and vasopressin secretion. The AT receptor also takes part in regulation of blood pressure and renal function but mediates antagonistic effects compared to the AT receptor....
362. ...ceptors are located primarily in the trigeminal nerve in the central nervous system (CNS). They are also found in vascular smooth muscles, mediating contraction. Agonism of 5-HT receptors subdues the **release** of inflammatory mediators. It has been shown that both 5-HT and 5-HT receptors in humans have a very similar amino acid structures, from which the similarities in binding properties can be expected....
363. ...tates and a marketing authorization application in Europe. Approval was granted in the United States by the FDA in July 2009 for Onglyza 5 mg and Onglyza 2.5 mg. This was later combined with extended-**release** metformin (taken once daily) and approved by the FDA in January 2011 under the trade name Kombiglyze XR. Denagliptin ("Figure 6") is an advanced compound with a branched side-chain at the P2 position...
364. ...r in 2020, the New Jersey state attorney general filed suit in the New Jersey Superior Court against Solvay regarding PFAS contamination of the state's environment. In May 2021, Solvay issued a press **release** that the company is "discontinuing the use of fluorosurfactants in the U.S.". In 2016, New York, along with Vermont and New Hampshire, acknowledged PFOA contamination by requesting the EPA to release...
365. ...release that the company is "discontinuing the use of fluorosurfactants in the U.S.". In 2016, New York, along with Vermont and New Hampshire, acknowledged PFOA contamination by requesting the EPA to **release** water quality guidance measures. Contamination has been observed by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation in Hoosick Falls, Newburgh, Petersburgh, Poestenkill, Mahopac, and Armo...
366. ...tes like Washington and Colorado have moved to restrict and penalize the use of Class B firefighting foam for firefighter training and testing. The September 11 attacks and resulting fires caused the **release** of toxic chemicals used in materials such as stain-resistant coatings. First responders to this incident were exposed to PFOA, PFNA, and PFHxS through inhalation of dust and smoke released during and...
367. ...ength. Therefore, the deposit could occur at secondary minimum having the energy from 0.09kT to 8.1kT at 1mM and 31.6 mM ionic strength, respectively. The conclusion was further proven by the partial **release** of deposited bacteria when the ionic strength decreased. Because the amount of released bacteria was less than 100%, it was suggested that bacteria could deposit at the primary minimum due to the het...
368. ...ffice of Criminal Investigations, the Albers Medical investigation is the most prolific example to date. In August 2005, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western District of Missouri issued a press **release** announcing that three businesses and eleven individuals were indicted for their involvement in a $42million conspiracy to sell counterfeit, smuggled and misbranded Lipitor and other drugs and for par...
369. ...is affected by many factors unique to each route of application. In general, mucoadhesives work to increase the contact time at these sites, prolonging the residence time and maintaining an effective **release** rate. These polymeric coatings may be applied to a wide variety of liquid and solid dosages, each specially suited for the route of administration. Tablets are small, solid dosages suitable for the u...
370. ..., as the size and stiffness of the form results in poor patient compliance when administered through other routes. In general, patches consist of three separate layers that contribute and control the **release** of medicine. The outer impermeable backing layer controls the direction of release and reduces drug loss away from the site of contact. It also protects the other layers and acts as a mechanical supp...
371. ...inistered through other routes. In general, patches consist of three separate layers that contribute and control the release of medicine. The outer impermeable backing layer controls the direction of **release** and reduces drug loss away from the site of contact. It also protects the other layers and acts as a mechanical support. The middle reservoir layer holds the drug and is tailored to provide the speci...

=== CELL (847 occurrences) ===
1. ...are written. Of these, up to 46 million are unnecessary or inappropriate for the condition that the patient has. Microbes may naturally develop resistance through genetic mutations that occur during **cell** division, and although random mutations are rare, many microbes reproduce frequently and rapidly, increasing the chances of members of the population acquiring a mutation that increases resistance. M...
2. ...eria reproduce at a high rate allows for the effect to be significant. Given that lifespans and production of new generations can be on a timescale of mere hours, a new (de novo) mutation in a parent **cell** can quickly become an inherited mutation of widespread prevalence, resulting in the microevolution of a fully resistant colony. However, chromosomal mutations also confer a cost of fitness. For examp...
3. ...spread prevalence, resulting in the microevolution of a fully resistant colony. However, chromosomal mutations also confer a cost of fitness. For example, a ribosomal mutation may protect a bacterial **cell** by changing the binding site of an antibiotic but may result in slower growth rate. Moreover, some adaptive mutations can propagate not only through inheritance but also through horizontal gene trans...
4. ...gh transduction, as in the bacteriophage-mediated transfer of tetracycline resistance genes between strains of "S. pyogenes", or through gene transfer agents, which are particles produced by the host **cell** that resemble bacteriophage structures and are capable of transferring DNA. Antibiotic resistance can be introduced artificially into a microorganism through laboratory protocols, sometimes used as a...
5. ...combination with machine learning algorithms in research to help better predict phenotypic AMR from organism genotype. Optical techniques such as phase contrast microscopy in combination with single-**cell** analysis are another powerful method to monitor bacterial growth. In 2017, scientists from Uppsala University in Sweden published a method that applies principles of microfluidics and cell tracking,...
6. ...ith single-cell analysis are another powerful method to monitor bacterial growth. In 2017, scientists from Uppsala University in Sweden published a method that applies principles of microfluidics and **cell** tracking, to monitor bacterial response to antibiotics in less than 30 minutes overall manipulation time. This invention was awarded the 8M£ Longitude Prize on AMR in 2024. Recently, this platform ha...
7. ...es are still active in antibiotic drug research. In particular, apart from classical synthetic chemistry methodologies, researchers have developed a combinatorial synthetic biology platform on single **cell** level in a high-throughput screening manner to diversify novel lanthipeptides. In the 5–10 years since 2010, there has been a significant change in the ways new antimicrobial agents are discovered an...
8. ...particles (1-100 nm) show unique properties and promise as antimicrobial agents against resistant bacteria. Silver (AgNPs) and gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) are extensively studied, disrupting bacterial **cell** membranes and interfering with protein synthesis. Zinc oxide (ZnO NPs), copper (CuNPs), and silica (SiNPs) nanoparticles also exhibit antimicrobial properties. However, high synthesis costs, potentia...
9. ...ngineered to target multidrug-resistant bacterial infections, and their use involves the added benefit of preventing the elimination of beneficial bacteria in the human body. Phages destroy bacterial **cell** walls and membrane through the use of lytic proteins which kill bacteria by making many holes from the inside out. Bacteriophages can even possess the ability to digest the biofilm that many bacteria...
10. ...ubiquitous problem in biology, biophysics and cellular biology which has the following formulation: a Brownian particle (ion, molecule, or protein) is confined to a bounded domain (a compartment or a **cell**) by a reflecting boundary, except for a small window through which it can escape. The narrow escape problem is that of calculating the mean escape time. This time diverges as the window shrinks, thus...
11. ...believed that, while the established security services had a role, they were too bureaucratic and too traditional in their thinking." As a result, "they set up what came to be known as the 'cabal', a **cell** of eight or nine analysts in a new Office of Special Plans (OSP) based in the U.S. Defense Department." According to an unnamed Pentagon source quoted by Hersh, the OSP "was created in order to find...
12. ...and thus the greater the force required to merge with other lipids. The oil is emulsified with detergents using a high-shear mixer to stabilize the emulsion so, when they encounter the lipids in the **cell** membrane or envelope of bacteria or viruses, they force the lipids to merge with themselves. On a mass scale, in effect this disintegrates the membrane and kills the pathogen. The soybean oil emulsio...
13. ...gics Evaluation and Research is the branch of the FDA responsible for ensuring the safety and efficacy of biological therapeutic agents. These include blood and blood products, vaccines, allergenics, **cell** and tissue-based products, and gene therapy products. New biologics are required to go through a premarket approval process called a Biologics License Application (BLA), similar to that for drugs. Th...
14. ...Biotechnology drugs do not have the simple, readily verifiable chemical structures of conventional drugs, and are produced through complex, often proprietary, techniques, such as transgenic mammalian **cell** cultures. Because of these complexities, the 1984 Hatch-Waxman Act did not include biologics in the Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) process. This precluded the possibility of generic drug com...
15. ..., no further reactions occur in FDG. Furthermore, most tissues (with the notable exception of liver and kidneys) cannot remove the phosphate added by hexokinase. This means that FDG is trapped in any **cell** that takes it up until it decays, since phosphorylated sugars, due to their ionic charge, cannot exit from the cell. This results in intense radiolabeling of tissues with high glucose uptake, such as...
16. ...not remove the phosphate added by hexokinase. This means that FDG is trapped in any cell that takes it up until it decays, since phosphorylated sugars, due to their ionic charge, cannot exit from the **cell**. This results in intense radiolabeling of tissues with high glucose uptake, such as the normal brain, liver, kidneys, and most cancers, which have a higher glucose uptake than most normal tissue due...
17. ...n a reversible manner, to prevent side effects and pollution of drugs into the environment. The study of chemicals requires intimate knowledge of the biological system affected. With the knowledge of **cell** biology and biochemistry increasing, the field of pharmacology has also changed substantially. It has become possible, through molecular analysis of receptors, to design chemicals that act on specifi...
18. ...hanged substantially. It has become possible, through molecular analysis of receptors, to design chemicals that act on specific cellular signaling or metabolic pathways by affecting sites directly on **cell**-surface receptors (which modulate and mediate cellular signaling pathways controlling cellular function). Chemicals can have pharmacologically relevant properties and effects. Pharmacokinetics descri...
19. ...chemical nature of the substance makes it easy to penetrate into the brain, and it also influences the phospholipid bilayer of neurons. This allows alcohol to have a widespread impact on many normal **cell** functions and modifies the actions of several neurotransmitter systems. Alcohol inhibits glutamate (a major excitatory neurotransmitter in the nervous system) neurotransmission by reducing the effect...
20. ...eria can also participate in biosynthesis reactions. For example, certain strains in the large intestine produce vitamin B; an essential compound in humans for things like DNA synthesis and red blood **cell** production. However, the primary function of the large intestine is water absorption from digested material (regulated by the hypothalamus) and the reabsorption of sodium and nutrients. Beneficial in...
21. ...ubunits of transmembrane proteins, such as occludin, claudins (such as Claudin-5), junctional adhesion molecule (such as JAM-A). Each of these tight junction proteins is stabilized to the endothelial **cell** membrane by another protein complex that includes scaffolding proteins such as tight junction protein 1 (ZO1) and associated proteins. The BBB is composed of endothelial cells restricting passage of...
22. ...associated proteins. The BBB is composed of endothelial cells restricting passage of substances from the blood more selectively than endothelial cells of capillaries elsewhere in the body. Astrocyte **cell** projections called astrocytic feet (also known as "glia limitans") surround the endothelial cells of the BBB, providing biochemical support to those cells. The BBB is distinct from the quite similar...
23. ...c exposure also increases the risk for developing several cancers, particularly of the skin, lung, liver, bladder, prostate, and blood vessels. The most common arsenic-induced skin cancer is squamous **cell** carcinoma in situ which typically occurs 2 to 20 years after arsenic exposure. Arsenic poisoning is caused by incidental ingestion or inhalation of arsenic, typically from drinking contaminated well...
24. ...osteric inhibition of an essential metabolic enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, which catalyzes the oxidation of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA by NAD. With the enzyme inhibited, the energy system of the **cell** is disrupted resulting in cellular apoptosis. Biochemically, arsenic prevents use of thiamine resulting in a clinical picture resembling thiamine deficiency. Poisoning with arsenic can raise lactate...
25. ...roxide production is also increased, which might form reactive oxygen species and oxidative stress. These metabolic interferences lead to death from multi-system organ failure, probably from necrotic **cell** death, not apoptosis. A post mortem reveals brick red colored mucosa, due to severe hemorrhage. Although arsenic causes toxicity, it can also play a protective role. Arsenite inhibits not only the fo...
26. ...ser (1981), submitochondrial particles synthesize adenosine-5'-diphosphate-arsenate from ADP and arsenate in presence of succinate. Thus, by a variety of mechanisms arsenate leads to an impairment of **cell** respiration and subsequently diminished ATP formation. This is consistent with observed ATP depletion of exposed cells and histopathological findings of mitochondrial and cell swelling, glycogen depl...
27. ...ads to an impairment of cell respiration and subsequently diminished ATP formation. This is consistent with observed ATP depletion of exposed cells and histopathological findings of mitochondrial and **cell** swelling, glycogen depletion in liver cells and fatty change in liver, heart and kidney. Experiments demonstrated enhanced arterial thrombosis in a rat animal model, elevations of serotonin levels, t...
28. ...the arsenic-induced formation of nitric oxide. It was demonstrated that +3 As concentrations substantially lower than concentrations required for inhibition of the lysosomal protease cathepsin L in B **cell** line TA3 were sufficient to trigger apoptosis in the same B cell line, while the latter could be a mechanism mediating immunosuppressive effects. Its comutagenic effects may be explained by interfere...
29. ...d that +3 As concentrations substantially lower than concentrations required for inhibition of the lysosomal protease cathepsin L in B cell line TA3 were sufficient to trigger apoptosis in the same B **cell** line, while the latter could be a mechanism mediating immunosuppressive effects. Its comutagenic effects may be explained by interference with base and nucleotide excision repair, eventually through...
30. ...from human liver ferritin if ascorbic acid was administered simultaneously. Thus, formation of reactive oxygen species can be promoted. Moreover, arsenic could cause oxidative stress by depleting the **cell**'s antioxidants, especially the ones containing thiol groups. The accumulation of reactive oxygen species like that cited above and hydroxyl radicals, superoxide radicals and hydrogen peroxides causes...
31. ...ts were hyper- and two of them were hypomethylated. Higher levels of DNA methyltransferase mRNA and enzyme activity were found. Kitchin (2001) proposed a model of altered growth factors which lead to **cell** proliferation and thus to carcinogenesis. From observations, it is known that chronic low-dose arsenic poisoning can lead to increased tolerance to its acute toxicity. MRP1-overexpressing lung tumor...
32. ...lation occurs through methyltransferase enzymes. S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) may serve as methyl donor. Various pathways are used, the principal route being dependent on the current environment of the **cell**. Resulting metabolites are monomethylarsonous acid, MMA(III), and dimethylarsinous acid, DMA(III). Methylation had been regarded as a detoxification process, but reduction from +5 As to +3 As may be...
33. ...P-1) and the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) (maybe enhanced by elevated MAPK levels), which results in c-fos/c-jun activation, over-secretion of pro-inflammatory and growth promoting cytokines stimulating **cell** proliferation. Germolec et al. (1996) found an increased cytokine expression and cell proliferation in skin biopsies from individuals chronically exposed to arsenic-contaminated drinking water. Incre...
34. ...results in c-fos/c-jun activation, over-secretion of pro-inflammatory and growth promoting cytokines stimulating cell proliferation. Germolec et al. (1996) found an increased cytokine expression and **cell** proliferation in skin biopsies from individuals chronically exposed to arsenic-contaminated drinking water. Increased AP-1 and NF-κB obviously also result in an up-regulation of mdm2 protein, which d...
35. ...taking into account p53's function, a lack of it could cause a faster accumulation of mutations contributing to carcinogenesis. However, high levels of inorganic arsenic inhibit NF-κB activation and **cell** proliferation. An experiment of Hu et al. (2002) demonstrated increased binding activity of AP-1 and NF-κB after acute (24 h) exposure to +3 sodium arsenite, whereas long-term exposure (10–12 weeks)...
36. ...s, AP-1, and NF-κB, as well as the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-8 and TNF-α. The interference of oxidative stress with signal transduction pathways may affect physiological processes associated with **cell** growth, metabolic syndrome X, glucose homeostasis, lipid metabolism, obesity, insulin resistance, inflammation, and diabetes-2. Recent scientific evidence has elucidated the physiological roles of th...
37. ...yisobuteneamine and polyisobuteneamide/succinimide. Reagent grade detergents are employed for the isolation and purification of integral membrane proteins found in biological cells. Solubilization of **cell** membrane bilayers requires a detergent that can enter the inner membrane monolayer. Advancements in the purity and sophistication of detergents have facilitated structural and biophysical characteriz...
38. ...of substances can damage an organism. Toxicity can refer to the effect on a whole organism, such as an animal, bacterium, or plant, as well as the effect on a substructure of the organism, such as a **cell** (cytotoxicity) or an organ such as the liver (hepatotoxicity). Sometimes the word is more or less synonymous with poisoning in everyday usage. A central concept of toxicology is that the effects of a...
39. ...desirable effects include anticholinergic effects, alpha-adrenergic blockade, and dopaminergic effects, among others. Toxicity can be measured by its effects on the target (organism, organ, tissue or **cell**). Because individuals typically have different levels of response to the same dose of a toxic substance, a population-level measure of toxicity is often used which relates the probabilities of an out...
40. ...gents involves additional issues, since it is not certain if there is a minimal effective dose for carcinogens, or whether the risk is just too small to see. In addition, it is possible that a single **cell** transformed into a cancer cell is all it takes to develop the full effect (the "one hit" theory). It is more difficult to determine the toxicity of chemical mixtures than a pure chemical because each...
41. ...s, since it is not certain if there is a minimal effective dose for carcinogens, or whether the risk is just too small to see. In addition, it is possible that a single cell transformed into a cancer **cell** is all it takes to develop the full effect (the "one hit" theory). It is more difficult to determine the toxicity of chemical mixtures than a pure chemical because each component displays its own tox...
42. ...an- and dose-specific toxic effects of an investigational product. The toxicity of substances can be observed by (a) studying the accidental exposures to a substance (b) in vitro studies using cells/ **cell** lines (c) in vivo exposure on experimental animals. Toxicity tests are mostly used to examine specific adverse events or specific endpoints such as cancer, cardiotoxicity, and skin/eye irritation. To...
43. ...ally derived from chemical synthesis, and biopharmaceuticals, which include recombinant proteins, vaccines, blood products used therapeutically (such as IVIG), gene therapy, monoclonal antibodies and **cell** therapy (for instance, stem cell therapies). Other ways to classify medicines are by mode of action, route of administration, biological system affected, or therapeutic effects. An elaborate and wide...
44. ...sis, and biopharmaceuticals, which include recombinant proteins, vaccines, blood products used therapeutically (such as IVIG), gene therapy, monoclonal antibodies and cell therapy (for instance, stem **cell** therapies). Other ways to classify medicines are by mode of action, route of administration, biological system affected, or therapeutic effects. An elaborate and widely used classification system is...
45. ...ule drugs; usually derived from chemical synthesis and biological medical products; which include recombinant proteins, vaccines, blood products used therapeutically (such as IVIG), gene therapy, and **cell** therapy (for instance, stem cell therapies). Pharmaceuticals or drugs or medicines are classified into various other groups besides their origin on the basis of pharmacological properties like mode o...
46. ...hemical synthesis and biological medical products; which include recombinant proteins, vaccines, blood products used therapeutically (such as IVIG), gene therapy, and cell therapy (for instance, stem **cell** therapies). Pharmaceuticals or drugs or medicines are classified into various other groups besides their origin on the basis of pharmacological properties like mode of action and their pharmacologica...
47. ..., local anesthetics, antifungals, and cerumenolytics. Bronchodilators, antitussives, mucolytics, decongestants, inhaled and systemic corticosteroids, beta2-adrenergic agonists, anticholinergics, mast **cell** stabilizers, leukotriene antagonists. Androgens, antiandrogens, estrogens, gonadotropin, corticosteroids, human growth hormone, insulin, antidiabetics (sulfonylureas, biguanides/metformin, thiazolidi...
48. ...s render the superoxide ion very toxic and are deployed to advantage by phagocytes to kill invading microorganisms. Otherwise, the superoxide ion must be destroyed before it does unwanted damage in a **cell**. The superoxide dismutase enzymes perform this function very efficiently. The formal oxidation state of the oxygen atoms is −. In solutions at neutral pH, the superoxide ion disproportionates to mole...
49. ...can range from weeks up to tens of years from the initial exposure. In some individuals, a single exposure to beryllium can cause berylliosis. In susceptible persons, beryllium exposure can lead to a **cell**-mediated immune response. The T-cells become sensitized to beryllium. Each subsequent exposure leads to an immune response involving CD4+ helper T-lymphocytes and macrophages accumulating in the lung...
50. ...oping new techniques of synthesizing nucleotides. The application of principles of physics and chemistry to living organisms was new at that time; DNA had been identified as the genetic material of a **cell**, and Khorana and others were investigating how DNA encoded the proteins that constituted an organism. In 1960, when Khorana was offered and accepted a university position with excellent laboratory fa...
51. ...included several honorary degrees. The following are named in Smith's honour: His certificate of election to the Royal Society reads:  Styrofoam Styrofoam is a genericized trademarked brand of closed-**cell** extruded polystyrene foam (XPS), manufactured to provide continuous building insulation board used in walls, roofs, and foundations as thermal insulation and as a water barrier. This material is ligh...
52. ...r Carl Georg Munters, and obtained an exclusive license to Munters's patent in the United States. Dow found ways to adapt Munters's method to make large quantities of extruded polystyrene as a closed **cell** foam that resists moisture. The patent on this adaptation was filed in 1947. Styrofoam has a variety of uses. Styrofoam is composed of 98% air, making it lightweight and buoyant. DuPont produces styr...
53. ...iving drug treatment. Drug-resistant traits are accordingly inherited by subsequent offspring, resulting in a population that is more drug-resistant. Unless the drug used makes sexual reproduction or **cell**-division or horizontal gene transfer impossible in the entire target population, resistance to the drug will inevitably follow. This can be seen in cancerous tumors where some cells may develop resis...
54. ...cterial efflux pumps, which cause resistance to multiple antibiotics such as beta-lactams, quinolones, chloramphenicol, and trimethoprim by sending molecules of those antibiotics out of the bacterial **cell**. Sometimes a combination of different classes of antibiotics may be used synergistically; that is, they work together to effectively fight bacteria that may be resistant to one of the antibiotics alo...
55. ...he adsorbed proteins layer. This protein layer mediates the interaction between biomaterials and cells, translating biomaterial physical and chemical properties into a "biological language". In fact, **cell** membrane receptors bind to protein layer bioactive sites and these receptor-protein binding events are transduced, through the cell membrane, in a manner that stimulates specific intracellular proces...
56. ...ical and chemical properties into a "biological language". In fact, cell membrane receptors bind to protein layer bioactive sites and these receptor-protein binding events are transduced, through the **cell** membrane, in a manner that stimulates specific intracellular processes that then determine cell adhesion, shape, growth and differentiation. Protein adsorption is influenced by many surface propertie...
57. ...to protein layer bioactive sites and these receptor-protein binding events are transduced, through the cell membrane, in a manner that stimulates specific intracellular processes that then determine **cell** adhesion, shape, growth and differentiation. Protein adsorption is influenced by many surface properties such as surface wettability, surface chemical composition and surface nanometre-scale morpholo...
58. ...virus replication cycle, in this respect, is similar for all types of viruses. Factors such as transcription may or may not be needed if the virus is able to integrate its genomic information in the **cell**'s nucleus, or if the virus can replicate itself directly within the cell's cytoplasm. The game of "Tetris" is a puzzle game in which blocks of 4 are adsorbed onto a surface during game play. Scientis...
59. ...ruses. Factors such as transcription may or may not be needed if the virus is able to integrate its genomic information in the cell's nucleus, or if the virus can replicate itself directly within the **cell**'s cytoplasm. The game of "Tetris" is a puzzle game in which blocks of 4 are adsorbed onto a surface during game play. Scientists have used "Tetris" blocks "as a proxy for molecules with a complex sha...
60. ...enetic profile, deliver drugs based on that profile to that group and compare the results. Multiple companies can participate, each bringing a different drug. The first such approach targets squamous **cell** cancer, which includes varying genetic disruptions from patient to patient. Amgen, AstraZeneca and Pfizer are involved, the first time they have worked together in a late-stage trial. Patients whose...
61. ...ical trials are only a small part of the research that goes into developing a new treatment. Potential drugs, for example, first have to be discovered, purified, characterized, and tested in labs (in **cell** and animal studies) before ever undergoing clinical trials. In all, about 1,000 potential drugs are tested before just one reaches the point of being tested in a clinical trial. For example, a new ca...
62. ...cess in all organisms. In vertebrates, this is primarily carried out by the lungs, kidneys, and skin. This is in contrast with secretion, where the substance may have specific tasks after leaving the **cell**. For example, placental mammals expel urine from the bladder through the urethra, which is part of the excretory system. Unicellular organisms discharge waste products directly through the surface of...
63. ...example, placental mammals expel urine from the bladder through the urethra, which is part of the excretory system. Unicellular organisms discharge waste products directly through the surface of the **cell**. During life activities such as cellular respiration, several chemical reactions take place in the body. These are known as metabolism. These chemical reactions produce waste products such as carbon...
64. ...atory products. In green plants, the carbon dioxide released during respiration gets used during photosynthesis. Oxygen is a byproduct generated during photosynthesis, and exits through stomata, root **cell** walls, and other routes. Plants can get rid of excess water by transpiration and guttation. It has been shown that the leaf acts as an 'excretophore' and, in addition to being a primary organ of phot...
65. ..., with thin films of liquid or solid separating the regions of gas. A bath sponge and the head on a glass of beer are examples of foams; soap foams are also known as "suds". Solid foams can be closed-**cell** or open-cell. In closed-cell foam, the gas forms discrete pockets, each completely surrounded by the solid material. In open-cell foam, gas pockets connect to each other. A bath sponge is an example...
66. ...ilms of liquid or solid separating the regions of gas. A bath sponge and the head on a glass of beer are examples of foams; soap foams are also known as "suds". Solid foams can be closed-cell or open-**cell**. In closed-cell foam, the gas forms discrete pockets, each completely surrounded by the solid material. In open-cell foam, gas pockets connect to each other. A bath sponge is an example of an open-ce...
67. ...r solid separating the regions of gas. A bath sponge and the head on a glass of beer are examples of foams; soap foams are also known as "suds". Solid foams can be closed-cell or open-cell. In closed-**cell** foam, the gas forms discrete pockets, each completely surrounded by the solid material. In open-cell foam, gas pockets connect to each other. A bath sponge is an example of an open-cell foam: water e...
68. ...foams; soap foams are also known as "suds". Solid foams can be closed-cell or open-cell. In closed-cell foam, the gas forms discrete pockets, each completely surrounded by the solid material. In open-**cell** foam, gas pockets connect to each other. A bath sponge is an example of an open-cell foam: water easily flows through the entire structure, displacing the air. A sleeping mat is an example of a produ...
69. ...ll. In closed-cell foam, the gas forms discrete pockets, each completely surrounded by the solid material. In open-cell foam, gas pockets connect to each other. A bath sponge is an example of an open-**cell** foam: water easily flows through the entire structure, displacing the air. A sleeping mat is an example of a product composed of closed-cell foam. Foams are examples of dispersed media. In general, g...
70. ...nect to each other. A bath sponge is an example of an open-cell foam: water easily flows through the entire structure, displacing the air. A sleeping mat is an example of a product composed of closed-**cell** foam. Foams are examples of dispersed media. In general, gas is present, so it divides into gas bubbles of different sizes (i.e., the material is polydisperse)—separated by liquid regions that may fo...
71. ...ems of minimal surfaces and three-dimensional tessellations, also called honeycombs. The Weaire–Phelan structure is reported in one primary philosophical source to be the best possible (optimal) unit **cell** of a perfectly ordered foam, while Plateau's laws describe how soap-films form structures in foams. At lower scale than the bubble is the thickness of the film for metastable foams, which can be cons...
72. ...se effects can lead to rearrangement of the foam structure at scales larger than the bubbles, which may be individual (T1 process) or collective (even of the "avalanche" type). Solid foams, both open-**cell** and closed-cell, are considered as a sub-class of cellular structures. They often have lower nodal connectivity as compared to other cellular structures like honeycombs and truss lattices, and thus,...
73. ...ead to rearrangement of the foam structure at scales larger than the bubbles, which may be individual (T1 process) or collective (even of the "avalanche" type). Solid foams, both open-cell and closed-**cell**, are considered as a sub-class of cellular structures. They often have lower nodal connectivity as compared to other cellular structures like honeycombs and truss lattices, and thus, their failure me...
74. ...ir strength and ability to absorb energy since this is an important factor in foam based technologies.  For elastomeric cellular solids, as the foam is compressed, first it behaves elastically as the **cell** walls bend, then as the cell walls buckle there is yielding and breakdown of the material until finally the cell walls crush together and the material ruptures. This is seen in a stress-strain curve...
75. ...sorb energy since this is an important factor in foam based technologies.  For elastomeric cellular solids, as the foam is compressed, first it behaves elastically as the cell walls bend, then as the **cell** walls buckle there is yielding and breakdown of the material until finally the cell walls crush together and the material ruptures. This is seen in a stress-strain curve as a steep linear elastic reg...
76. ...omeric cellular solids, as the foam is compressed, first it behaves elastically as the cell walls bend, then as the cell walls buckle there is yielding and breakdown of the material until finally the **cell** walls crush together and the material ruptures. This is seen in a stress-strain curve as a steep linear elastic regime, a linear regime with a shallow slope after yielding (plateau stress), and an ex...
77. ...ycomb structure, formula_29 is a constant having a value close to one, formula_30 is the density of the honeycomb structure, and formula_31 is the density of the solid. The elastic modulus for closed **cell** foams can be described similarly by: formula_32 where the only difference is the exponent in the density dependence. However, in real materials, a closed-cell foam has more material at the cell edges...
78. ...he solid. The elastic modulus for closed cell foams can be described similarly by: formula_32 where the only difference is the exponent in the density dependence. However, in real materials, a closed-**cell** foam has more material at the cell edges which makes it more closely follow the equation for open-cell foams. The ratio of the density of the honeycomb structure compared with the solid structure has...
79. ...losed cell foams can be described similarly by: formula_32 where the only difference is the exponent in the density dependence. However, in real materials, a closed-cell foam has more material at the **cell** edges which makes it more closely follow the equation for open-cell foams. The ratio of the density of the honeycomb structure compared with the solid structure has a large impact on the modulus of t...
80. ...only difference is the exponent in the density dependence. However, in real materials, a closed-cell foam has more material at the cell edges which makes it more closely follow the equation for open-**cell** foams. The ratio of the density of the honeycomb structure compared with the solid structure has a large impact on the modulus of the material. Overall, foam strength increases with density of the ce...
81. ...ll foams. The ratio of the density of the honeycomb structure compared with the solid structure has a large impact on the modulus of the material. Overall, foam strength increases with density of the **cell** and stiffness of the matrix material. Another important property which can be deduced from the stress strain curve is the energy that the foam is able to absorb. The area under the curve (specified t...
82. ...en the materials response to stress will be directionally dependent, and thus the stress-strain curve, modulus, and energy absorption will vary depending on the direction of applied force. Also, open-**cell** structures which have connected pores can allow water or other liquids to flow through the structure, which can also affect the rigidity and energy absorption capabilities. Liquid foams can be used i...
83. ...s. Liquid foams can be used in fire retardant foam, such as those that are used in extinguishing fires, especially oil fires. The dough of leavened bread has traditionally been understood as a closed-**cell** foam—yeast causing bread to rise via tiny bubbles of gas that become the bread pores—where the cells do not connect with each other. Cutting the dough releases the gas in the bubbles that are cut, bu...
84. ...connect with each other. Cutting the dough releases the gas in the bubbles that are cut, but the gas in the rest of the dough cannot escape. When dough is allowed to rise too far, it becomes an open-**cell** foam, in which the gas pockets are connected; cutting the dough surface at that point would cause a large volume of gas to escape, and the dough to collapse. Recent research has indicated that the po...
85. ...nt would cause a large volume of gas to escape, and the dough to collapse. Recent research has indicated that the pore structure in bread is 99% interconnected into one large vacuole, thus the closed-**cell** foam of the moist dough is transformed into an open cell solid foam in the bread. The unique property of gas-liquid foams having very high specific surface area is exploited in the chemical processes...
86. ...ough to collapse. Recent research has indicated that the pore structure in bread is 99% interconnected into one large vacuole, thus the closed-cell foam of the moist dough is transformed into an open **cell** solid foam in the bread. The unique property of gas-liquid foams having very high specific surface area is exploited in the chemical processes of froth flotation and foam fractionation. Foam depopula...
87. ...used to attempt to stop disease spread. Solid foams are a class of lightweight cellular engineering materials. These foams are typically classified into two types based on their pore structure: open-**cell**-structured foams (also known as reticulated foams) and closed-cell foams. At high enough cell resolutions, any type can be treated as continuous or "continuum" materials and are referred to as cellul...
88. ...lightweight cellular engineering materials. These foams are typically classified into two types based on their pore structure: open-cell-structured foams (also known as reticulated foams) and closed-**cell** foams. At high enough cell resolutions, any type can be treated as continuous or "continuum" materials and are referred to as cellular solids, with predictable mechanical properties. Open-cell foams...
89. ...eering materials. These foams are typically classified into two types based on their pore structure: open-cell-structured foams (also known as reticulated foams) and closed-cell foams. At high enough **cell** resolutions, any type can be treated as continuous or "continuum" materials and are referred to as cellular solids, with predictable mechanical properties. Open-cell foams can be used to filter air....
90. ...closed-cell foams. At high enough cell resolutions, any type can be treated as continuous or "continuum" materials and are referred to as cellular solids, with predictable mechanical properties. Open-**cell** foams can be used to filter air. For example, a foam embedded with catalyst has been shown to catalytically convert formaldehyde to benign substances when formaldehyde polluted air passes through the...
91. ...can be used to filter air. For example, a foam embedded with catalyst has been shown to catalytically convert formaldehyde to benign substances when formaldehyde polluted air passes through the open **cell** structure. Open-cell-structured foams contain pores that are connected to each other and form an interconnected network that is relatively soft. Open-cell foams fill with whatever gas surrounds them....
92. ...r air. For example, a foam embedded with catalyst has been shown to catalytically convert formaldehyde to benign substances when formaldehyde polluted air passes through the open cell structure. Open-**cell**-structured foams contain pores that are connected to each other and form an interconnected network that is relatively soft. Open-cell foams fill with whatever gas surrounds them. If filled with air,...
93. ...ldehyde polluted air passes through the open cell structure. Open-cell-structured foams contain pores that are connected to each other and form an interconnected network that is relatively soft. Open-**cell** foams fill with whatever gas surrounds them. If filled with air, a relatively good insulator results, but, if the open cells fill with water, insulation properties would be reduced. Recent studies ha...
94. ...led with air, a relatively good insulator results, but, if the open cells fill with water, insulation properties would be reduced. Recent studies have put the focus on studying the properties of open-**cell** foams as an insulator material. Wheat gluten/TEOS bio-foams have been produced, showing similar insulator properties as for those foams obtained from oil-based resources. Foam rubber is a type of ope...
95. ...oams as an insulator material. Wheat gluten/TEOS bio-foams have been produced, showing similar insulator properties as for those foams obtained from oil-based resources. Foam rubber is a type of open-**cell** foam. Closed-cell foams do not have interconnected pores. The closed-cell foams normally have higher compressive strength due to their structures. However, closed-cell foams are also, in general more...
96. ...or material. Wheat gluten/TEOS bio-foams have been produced, showing similar insulator properties as for those foams obtained from oil-based resources. Foam rubber is a type of open-cell foam. Closed-**cell** foams do not have interconnected pores. The closed-cell foams normally have higher compressive strength due to their structures. However, closed-cell foams are also, in general more dense, require mo...
97. ...ced, showing similar insulator properties as for those foams obtained from oil-based resources. Foam rubber is a type of open-cell foam. Closed-cell foams do not have interconnected pores. The closed-**cell** foams normally have higher compressive strength due to their structures. However, closed-cell foams are also, in general more dense, require more material, and as a consequence are more expensive to...
98. .... Foam rubber is a type of open-cell foam. Closed-cell foams do not have interconnected pores. The closed-cell foams normally have higher compressive strength due to their structures. However, closed-**cell** foams are also, in general more dense, require more material, and as a consequence are more expensive to produce. The closed cells can be filled with a specialized gas to provide improved insulation....
99. ...lso, in general more dense, require more material, and as a consequence are more expensive to produce. The closed cells can be filled with a specialized gas to provide improved insulation. The closed-**cell** structure foams have higher dimensional stability, low moisture absorption coefficients, and higher strength compared to open-cell-structured foams. All types of foam are widely used as core material...
100. ...ed with a specialized gas to provide improved insulation. The closed-cell structure foams have higher dimensional stability, low moisture absorption coefficients, and higher strength compared to open-**cell**-structured foams. All types of foam are widely used as core material in sandwich-structured composite materials. The earliest known engineering use of cellular solids is with wood, which in its dry f...
101. ...s. All types of foam are widely used as core material in sandwich-structured composite materials. The earliest known engineering use of cellular solids is with wood, which in its dry form is a closed-**cell** foam composed of lignin, cellulose, and air. From the early 20th century, various types of specially manufactured solid foams came into use. The low density of these foams makes them excellent as the...
102. ...the lungs called the alveoli. The lungs are the largest organs in the lower respiratory tract. The lungs are suspended within the pleural cavity of the thorax. The pleurae are two thin membranes, one **cell** layer thick, which surround the lungs. The inner (visceral pleura) covers the lungs and the outer (parietal pleura) lines the inner surface of the chest wall. This membrane secretes a small amount of...
103. ...it completely encircles. Instead of hard cartilage, the bronchi and bronchioles are composed of elastic tissue. The lungs are made up of thirteen different kinds of cells, eleven types of epithelial **cell** and two types of mesenchymal cell. The epithelial cells form the lining of the tracheal, and bronchial tubes, while the mesenchymal cells line the lungs. Most of the respiratory tract exists merely a...
104. ...of hard cartilage, the bronchi and bronchioles are composed of elastic tissue. The lungs are made up of thirteen different kinds of cells, eleven types of epithelial cell and two types of mesenchymal **cell**. The epithelial cells form the lining of the tracheal, and bronchial tubes, while the mesenchymal cells line the lungs. Most of the respiratory tract exists merely as a piping system for air to trave...
105. ...esign, manufacturing, action, delivery, and classification of drugs. They apply knowledge from chemistry (inorganic, physical, biochemical and analytical), biology (anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, **cell** biology, and molecular biology), epidemiology, statistics, chemometrics, mathematics, physics, and chemical engineering. The pharmaceutical sciences are further subdivided into several specific speci...
106. ...he hydroxyl radical transfers its radical to DNA. Or together with hydronium and electron, a free hydroxyl radical can damage the base region of DNA. Cancer cells cause an imbalance of signals in the **cell** cycle. G1 and G2/M arrest were found to be major checkpoints by irradiating human cells. G1 arrest delays the repair mechanism before synthesis of DNA in S phase and mitosis in M phase, suggesting it...
107. ...at S phase is the most resistant to radiation and M phase is the most sensitive to radiation. p53, a tumor suppressor protein that plays a role in G1 and G2/M arrest, enabled the understanding of the **cell** cycle through radiation. For example, irradiation of myeloid leukemia cells leads to an increase in p53 and a decrease in the level of DNA synthesis. Patients with Ataxia telangiectasia delays have h...
108. ...itivity and thus G1 arrest has been a focus for therapeutic treatment. Irradiation of a tissue induces a response in both irradiated and non-irridiated cells. It was found that even cells up to 50–75 **cell** diameters distant from irradiated cells exhibit a phenotype of enhanced genetic instability such as micronucleation. This suggests an effect on cell-to-cell communication such as paracrine and juxtac...
109. ...ed cells. It was found that even cells up to 50–75 cell diameters distant from irradiated cells exhibit a phenotype of enhanced genetic instability such as micronucleation. This suggests an effect on **cell**-to-cell communication such as paracrine and juxtacrine signaling. Normal cells do not lose their DNA repair mechanism whereas cancer cells often lose it during radiotherapy. However, the high energy...
110. .... It was found that even cells up to 50–75 cell diameters distant from irradiated cells exhibit a phenotype of enhanced genetic instability such as micronucleation. This suggests an effect on cell-to-**cell** communication such as paracrine and juxtacrine signaling. Normal cells do not lose their DNA repair mechanism whereas cancer cells often lose it during radiotherapy. However, the high energy radiatio...
111. ...indirect inhibitors on DNA double-strand breaks. Direct inhibitors target proteins (PARP family) and kinases (ATM, DNA-PKCs) that are involved in DNA repair. Indirect inhibitors target protein tumor **cell** signaling proteins such as EGFR and insulin growth factor. The effective therapeutic index can be affected by targeting, in which the therapeutic agent is concentrated in its desirable area of effect...
112. ...re nuclear medicine studies that allow imaging of the whole body based on certain cellular receptors or functions. Examples are whole body PET scans or PET/CT scans, gallium scans, indium white blood **cell** scans, MIBG and octreotide scans. While the ability of nuclear metabolism to image disease processes from differences in metabolism is unsurpassed, it is not unique. Certain techniques such as fMRI i...
113. ...rarely, injection of a radionuclide that has undergone micro-encapsulation. Some studies require the labeling of a patient's own blood cells with a radionuclide (leukocyte scintigraphy and red blood **cell** scintigraphy). Most diagnostic radionuclides emit gamma rays either directly from their decay or indirectly through electron–positron annihilation, while the cell-damaging properties of beta particle...
114. ...leukocyte scintigraphy and red blood cell scintigraphy). Most diagnostic radionuclides emit gamma rays either directly from their decay or indirectly through electron–positron annihilation, while the **cell**-damaging properties of beta particles are used in therapeutic applications. Refined radionuclides for use in nuclear medicine are derived from fission or fusion processes in nuclear reactors, which p...
115. ...hemistry of organisms' cells. They play an important role in signal transduction pathways, where they act as a second messenger, in neurotransmitter release from neurons, in contraction of all muscle **cell** types, and in fertilization. Many enzymes require calcium ions as a cofactor, including several of the coagulation factors. Extracellular calcium is also important for maintaining the potential diffe...
116. ...ation. Many enzymes require calcium ions as a cofactor, including several of the coagulation factors. Extracellular calcium is also important for maintaining the potential difference across excitable **cell** membranes, as well as proper bone formation. Plasma calcium levels in mammals are tightly regulated, with bone acting as the major mineral storage site. Calcium ions, Ca, are released from bone into...
117. ...lude mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. Characteristic concentrations of calcium in model organisms are: in "E. coli" 3 mM (bound), 100 nM (free), in budding yeast 2 mM (bound), in mammalian **cell** 10–100 nM (free) and in blood plasma 2 mM. In 2021, calcium was the 243rd most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 1million prescriptions. The U.S. Institute of Medici...
118. ...l amount of Ca present in a tissue may be measured using Atomic absorption spectroscopy, in which the tissue is vaporized and combusted. To measure Ca concentration or spatial distribution within the **cell** cytoplasm "in vivo" or "in vitro", a range of fluorescent reporters may be used. These include cell permeable, calcium-binding fluorescent dyes such as Fura-2 or genetically engineered variant of gre...
119. ...e tissue is vaporized and combusted. To measure Ca concentration or spatial distribution within the cell cytoplasm "in vivo" or "in vitro", a range of fluorescent reporters may be used. These include **cell** permeable, calcium-binding fluorescent dyes such as Fura-2 or genetically engineered variant of green fluorescent protein (GFP) named Cameleon. As access to an ionized calcium is not always available...
120. ...ion, in which calcium is liberated into the bloodstream through the action of bone osteoclasts. The remainder of calcium is present within the extracellular and intracellular fluids. Within a typical **cell**, the intracellular concentration of ionized calcium is roughly 100 nM, but is subject to increases of 10- to 100-fold during various cellular functions. The intracellular calcium level is kept relati...
121. ...ircumstances, its action may be more general. Ca ions are one of the most widespread second messengers used in signal transduction. They make their entrance into the cytoplasm either from outside the **cell** through the cell membrane via calcium channels (such as calcium-binding proteins or voltage-gated calcium channels), or from some internal calcium storages such as the endoplasmic reticulum and mitoc...
122. ...action may be more general. Ca ions are one of the most widespread second messengers used in signal transduction. They make their entrance into the cytoplasm either from outside the cell through the **cell** membrane via calcium channels (such as calcium-binding proteins or voltage-gated calcium channels), or from some internal calcium storages such as the endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. Levels o...
123. ...lcium channels), or from some internal calcium storages such as the endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. Levels of intracellular calcium are regulated by transport proteins that remove it from the **cell**. For example, the sodium-calcium exchanger uses energy from the electrochemical gradient of sodium by coupling the influx of sodium into cell (and down its concentration gradient) with the transport...
124. ...e regulated by transport proteins that remove it from the cell. For example, the sodium-calcium exchanger uses energy from the electrochemical gradient of sodium by coupling the influx of sodium into **cell** (and down its concentration gradient) with the transport of calcium out of the cell. In addition, the plasma membrane Ca ATPase (PMCA) obtains energy to pump calcium out of the cell by hydrolysing ad...
125. ...ium-calcium exchanger uses energy from the electrochemical gradient of sodium by coupling the influx of sodium into cell (and down its concentration gradient) with the transport of calcium out of the **cell**. In addition, the plasma membrane Ca ATPase (PMCA) obtains energy to pump calcium out of the cell by hydrolysing adenosine triphosphate (ATP). In neurons, voltage-dependent, calcium-selective ion cha...
126. ...ux of sodium into cell (and down its concentration gradient) with the transport of calcium out of the cell. In addition, the plasma membrane Ca ATPase (PMCA) obtains energy to pump calcium out of the **cell** by hydrolysing adenosine triphosphate (ATP). In neurons, voltage-dependent, calcium-selective ion channels are important for synaptic transmission through the release of neurotransmitters into the sy...
127. ...vessels to relax. Some of these Ca-activated pathways include the stimulation of eNOS to produce nitric oxide, as well as the stimulation of K channels to efflux K and cause hyperpolarization of the **cell** membrane. Both nitric oxide and hyperpolarization cause the smooth muscle to relax in order to regulate the amount of tone in blood vessels. However, dysfunction within these Ca-activated pathways ca...
128. ...neural system depending on the receptors and proteins that have varied affinity for detecting levels of calcium to open or close channels at high concentration and low concentration of calcium in the **cell** at that time. Substantial decreases in extracellular Ca ion concentrations may result in a condition known as hypocalcemic tetany, which is marked by spontaneous motor neuron discharge. In addition,...
129. ...n the case of excitotoxicity, or over-excitation of neural circuits, which can occur in neurodegenerative diseases, or after insults such as brain trauma or stroke). Excessive entry of calcium into a **cell** may damage it or even cause it to undergo apoptosis, or death by necrosis. Calcium also acts as one of the primary regulators of osmotic stress (osmotic shock). Chronically elevated plasma calcium (h...
130. ...skeleton (shells and carapaces) or endoskeleton (echinoderm plates and poriferan calcareous spicules). When abscisic acid signals the guard cells, free Ca ions enter the cytosol from both outside the **cell** and internal stores, reversing the concentration gradient so the K+ ions begin exiting the cell. The loss of solutes makes the cell flaccid and closes the stomatal pores. Calcium is a necessary ion i...
131. ...ules). When abscisic acid signals the guard cells, free Ca ions enter the cytosol from both outside the cell and internal stores, reversing the concentration gradient so the K+ ions begin exiting the **cell**. The loss of solutes makes the cell flaccid and closes the stomatal pores. Calcium is a necessary ion in the formation of the mitotic spindle. Without the mitotic spindle, cellular division cannot oc...
132. ...e guard cells, free Ca ions enter the cytosol from both outside the cell and internal stores, reversing the concentration gradient so the K+ ions begin exiting the cell. The loss of solutes makes the **cell** flaccid and closes the stomatal pores. Calcium is a necessary ion in the formation of the mitotic spindle. Without the mitotic spindle, cellular division cannot occur. Although young leaves have a hi...
133. ...immobile through the plant. It is not transported through the phloem because it can bind with other nutrient ions and precipitate out of liquid solutions. Ca ions are an essential component of plant **cell** walls and cell membranes, and are used as cations to balance organic anions in the plant vacuole. The Ca concentration of the vacuole may reach millimolar levels. The most striking use of Ca ions as...
134. ...gh the plant. It is not transported through the phloem because it can bind with other nutrient ions and precipitate out of liquid solutions. Ca ions are an essential component of plant cell walls and **cell** membranes, and are used as cations to balance organic anions in the plant vacuole. The Ca concentration of the vacuole may reach millimolar levels. The most striking use of Ca ions as a structural el...
135. ...to form the calcium carbonate plates, with which they are covered. Calcium is needed to form the pectin in the middle lamella of newly formed cells. Calcium is needed to stabilize the permeability of **cell** membranes. Without calcium, the cell walls are unable to stabilize and hold their contents. This is particularly important in developing fruits. Without calcium, the cell walls are weak and unable to...
136. ...with which they are covered. Calcium is needed to form the pectin in the middle lamella of newly formed cells. Calcium is needed to stabilize the permeability of cell membranes. Without calcium, the **cell** walls are unable to stabilize and hold their contents. This is particularly important in developing fruits. Without calcium, the cell walls are weak and unable to hold the contents of the fruit. Some...
137. ...tabilize the permeability of cell membranes. Without calcium, the cell walls are unable to stabilize and hold their contents. This is particularly important in developing fruits. Without calcium, the **cell** walls are weak and unable to hold the contents of the fruit. Some plants accumulate Ca in their tissues, thus making them more firm. Calcium is stored as Ca-oxalate crystals in plastids. Ca ions are...
138. ...including humans, results in various neurological dysfunctions. Characteristic concentrations of potassium in model organisms are: 30–300 mM in "E. coli", 300 mM in budding yeast, 100 mM in mammalian **cell** and 4 mM in blood plasma. The main role of potassium in plants is to provide the ionic environment for metabolic processes in the cytosol, and as such functions as a regulator of various processes in...
139. ...s causes a difference in electric potential between the inside and outside of cells, known as the membrane potential. The balance between potassium and sodium is maintained by ion transporters in the **cell** membrane. All potassium ion channels are tetramers with several conserved secondary structural elements. A number of potassium channel structures have been solved including voltage gated, ligand gate...
140. ...ructural elements. A number of potassium channel structures have been solved including voltage gated, ligand gated, tandem-pore, and inwardly rectifying channels, from prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The **cell** membrane potential created by potassium and sodium ions allows the cell to generate an action potential—a "spike" of electrical discharge. The ability of cells to produce electrical discharge is crit...
141. ...lved including voltage gated, ligand gated, tandem-pore, and inwardly rectifying channels, from prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The cell membrane potential created by potassium and sodium ions allows the **cell** to generate an action potential—a "spike" of electrical discharge. The ability of cells to produce electrical discharge is critical for body functions such as neurotransmission, muscle contraction, a...
142. ...sium in biology Magnesium is an essential element in biological systems. Magnesium occurs typically as the Mg ion. It is an essential mineral nutrient (i.e., element) for life and is present in every **cell** type in every organism. For example, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the main source of energy in cells, must bind to a magnesium ion in order to be biologically active. What is called ATP is often act...
143. ...n 2022, magnesium salts were the 207th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 1million prescriptions. Magnesium can affect muscle relaxation through direct action on **cell** membranes. Mg ions close certain types of calcium channels, which conduct positively charged calcium ions into neurons. With an excess of magnesium, more channels will be blocked and nerve cells acti...
144. ...s, magnesium supplementation lowers fasting glucose. Magnesium is essential as part of the process that generates adenosine triphosphate. Mitochondria are often referred to as the "powerhouses of the **cell**" because their primary role is generating energy for cellular processes. They achieve this by breaking down nutrients, primarily glucose, through a series of chemical reactions known as cellular resp...
145. ...ey achieve this by breaking down nutrients, primarily glucose, through a series of chemical reactions known as cellular respiration. This process ultimately produces adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the **cell**'s main energy currency. Magnesium and vitamin D have a synergistic relationship in the body, meaning they work together to optimize each other's functions: Overall, maintaining adequate levels of bot...
146. ...symptoms of low magnesium from pure dietary deficiency are thought to be rarely encountered. Following are some foods and the amount of magnesium in them: In animals, it has been shown that different **cell** types maintain different concentrations of magnesium. It seems likely that the same is true for plants. This suggests that different cell types may regulate influx and efflux of magnesium in differen...
147. ...gnesium in them: In animals, it has been shown that different cell types maintain different concentrations of magnesium. It seems likely that the same is true for plants. This suggests that different **cell** types may regulate influx and efflux of magnesium in different ways based on their unique metabolic needs. Interstitial and systemic concentrations of free magnesium must be delicately maintained by...
148. ...the regulation of carbon fixation in chloroplasts in the Calvin cycle. Magnesium is very important in cellular function. Deficiency of the nutrient causes disease of the affected organism. In single-**cell** organisms such as bacteria and yeast, low levels of magnesium manifests in greatly reduced growth rates. In magnesium transport knockout strains of bacteria, healthy rates are maintained only with ex...
149. ...stool. Urinary magnesium is called "magnesuria". Characteristic concentrations of magnesium in model organisms are: in "E. coli" 30-100mM (bound), 0.01-1mM (free), in budding yeast 50mM, in mammalian **cell** 10mM (bound), 0.5mM (free) and in blood plasma 1mM. Mg is the fourth-most-abundant metal ion in cells (per moles) and the most abundant free divalent cation — as a result, it is deeply and intrinsica...
150. ...up II self splicing introns). Magnesium ions can be critical in maintaining the positional integrity of closely clustered phosphate groups. These clusters appear in numerous and distinct parts of the **cell** nucleus and cytoplasm. For instance, hexahydrated Mg ions bind in the deep major groove and at the outer mouth of A-form nucleic acid duplexes. Biological cell membranes and cell walls are polyanioni...
151. ...r in numerous and distinct parts of the cell nucleus and cytoplasm. For instance, hexahydrated Mg ions bind in the deep major groove and at the outer mouth of A-form nucleic acid duplexes. Biological **cell** membranes and cell walls are polyanionic surfaces. This has important implications for the transport of ions, in particular because it has been shown that different membranes preferentially bind diff...
152. ...istinct parts of the cell nucleus and cytoplasm. For instance, hexahydrated Mg ions bind in the deep major groove and at the outer mouth of A-form nucleic acid duplexes. Biological cell membranes and **cell** walls are polyanionic surfaces. This has important implications for the transport of ions, in particular because it has been shown that different membranes preferentially bind different ions. Both Mg...
153. ...nthetic efficiency by the blockage of K uptake and the subsequent acidification of the chloroplast stroma. The Mg ion tends to bind only weakly to proteins ("K" ≤ 10) and this can be exploited by the **cell** to switch enzymatic activity on and off by changes in the local concentration of Mg. Although the concentration of free cytoplasmic Mg is on the order of 1 mmol/L, the total Mg content of animal cell...
154. ...ion, and low interference from other ions. Mg chelators lag behind and the major fluorescence dye for Mg (mag-fura 2) actually has a higher affinity for Ca. This limits the application of this dye to **cell** types where the resting level of Ca is < 1 μM and does not vary with the experimental conditions under which Mg is to be measured. Recently, Otten "et al." (2001) have described work into a new class...
155. ...nds that may prove more useful, having significantly better binding affinities for Mg. The use of the fluorescent dyes is limited to measuring the free Mg. If the ion concentration is buffered by the **cell** by chelation or removal to subcellular compartments, the measured rate of uptake will give only minimum values of km and Vmax. First, ion-specific microelectrodes can be used to measure the internal...
156. ...unlike dyes very little extra ion buffering capacity is added to the cells. Second, the technique of two-electrode voltage-clamp allows the direct measurement of the ion flux across the membrane of a **cell**. The membrane is held at an electric potential and the responding current is measured. All ions passing across the membrane contribute to the measured current. Third, the technique of patch-clamp use...
157. ...is that samples must be in a volume of approximately 2 mL and at a concentration range of 0.1 – 0.4 μmol/L for optimum accuracy. As this technique cannot distinguish between Mg already present in the **cell** and that taken up during the experiment, only content not uptaken can be quantified. Inductively coupled plasma (ICP) using either the mass spectrometry (MS) or atomic emission spectroscopy (AES) mod...
158. ...s. Mg is taken up into plants via the roots. Interactions with other cations in the rhizosphere can have a significant effect on the uptake of the ion.(Kurvits and Kirkby, 1980; The structure of root **cell** walls is highly permeable to water and ions, and hence ion uptake into root cells can occur anywhere from the root hairs to cells located almost in the centre of the root (limited only by the Caspari...
159. ...permeable to water and ions, and hence ion uptake into root cells can occur anywhere from the root hairs to cells located almost in the centre of the root (limited only by the Casparian strip). Plant **cell** walls and membranes carry a great number of negative charges, and the interactions of cations with these charges is key to the uptake of cations by root cells allowing a local concentrating effect. M...
160. ...Also, Mg is the coordinating ion in the chlorophyll molecule. It is the intracellular compartmentalisation of Mg in plant cells that leads to additional complexity. Four compartments within the plant **cell** have reported interactions with Mg. Initially, Mg will enter the cell into the cytoplasm (by an as yet unidentified system), but free Mg concentrations in this compartment are tightly regulated at re...
161. ...e intracellular compartmentalisation of Mg in plant cells that leads to additional complexity. Four compartments within the plant cell have reported interactions with Mg. Initially, Mg will enter the **cell** into the cytoplasm (by an as yet unidentified system), but free Mg concentrations in this compartment are tightly regulated at relatively low levels (≈2 mmol/L) and so any excess Mg is either quickly...
162. ...tMHX). The diagram shows a schematic of a plant and the putative processes of Mg transport at the root and leaf where Mg is loaded and unloaded from the vascular tissues. Mg is taken up into the root **cell** wall space (1) and interacts with the negative charges associated with the cell walls and membranes. Mg may be taken up into cells immediately (symplastic pathway) or may travel as far as the Caspari...
163. ...transport at the root and leaf where Mg is loaded and unloaded from the vascular tissues. Mg is taken up into the root cell wall space (1) and interacts with the negative charges associated with the **cell** walls and membranes. Mg may be taken up into cells immediately (symplastic pathway) or may travel as far as the Casparian band (4) before being absorbed into cells (apoplastic pathway; 2). The concen...
164. ...tic pathway) or may travel as far as the Casparian band (4) before being absorbed into cells (apoplastic pathway; 2). The concentration of Mg in the root cells is probably buffered by storage in root **cell** vacuoles (3). Note that cells in the root tip do not contain vacuoles. Once in the root cell cytoplasm, Mg travels toward the centre of the root by plasmodesmata, where it is loaded into the xylem (5...
165. ...(apoplastic pathway; 2). The concentration of Mg in the root cells is probably buffered by storage in root cell vacuoles (3). Note that cells in the root tip do not contain vacuoles. Once in the root **cell** cytoplasm, Mg travels toward the centre of the root by plasmodesmata, where it is loaded into the xylem (5) for transport to the upper parts of the plant. When the Mg reaches the leaves it is unloade...
166. ...phloem occurs via general cells in the leaf (8) or directly from xylem to phloem via transfer cells (9) is unknown. Mg may return to the roots in the phloem sap. When a Mg ion has been absorbed by a **cell** requiring it for metabolic processes, it is generally assumed that the ion stays in that cell for as long as the cell is active. In vascular cells, this is not always the case; in times of plenty, Mg...
167. ...cells (9) is unknown. Mg may return to the roots in the phloem sap. When a Mg ion has been absorbed by a cell requiring it for metabolic processes, it is generally assumed that the ion stays in that **cell** for as long as the cell is active. In vascular cells, this is not always the case; in times of plenty, Mg is stored in the vacuole, takes no part in the day-to-day metabolic processes of the cell (St...
168. ...g may return to the roots in the phloem sap. When a Mg ion has been absorbed by a cell requiring it for metabolic processes, it is generally assumed that the ion stays in that cell for as long as the **cell** is active. In vascular cells, this is not always the case; in times of plenty, Mg is stored in the vacuole, takes no part in the day-to-day metabolic processes of the cell (Stelzer "et al.", 1990), a...
169. ...hat cell for as long as the cell is active. In vascular cells, this is not always the case; in times of plenty, Mg is stored in the vacuole, takes no part in the day-to-day metabolic processes of the **cell** (Stelzer "et al.", 1990), and is released at need. But for most cells it is death by senescence or injury that releases Mg and many of the other ionic constituents, recycling them into healthy parts...
170. ...ole requires a Mg/H antiport transporter (such as AtMHX). The H-ATPases are dependent on Mg (bound to ATP) for activity, so that Mg is required to maintain its own homeostasis. A schematic of a plant **cell** is shown including the four major compartments currently recognised as interacting with Mg. H-ATPases maintain a constant ΔpH across the plasma membrane and the vacuole membrane. Mg is transported in...
171. ...robably uses ΔΨ as in the mitochondria of yeast, and it is likely that chloroplasts take Mg by a similar system. The mechanism and the molecular basis for the release of Mg from vacuoles and from the **cell** is not known. Likewise, the light-regulated Mg concentration changes in chloroplasts are not fully understood, but do require the transport of H ions across the thylakoid membrane. Mg is the coordina...
172. ...tree. A Mg deficit can be caused by the lack of the ion in the media (soil), but more commonly comes from inhibition of its uptake. Mg binds quite weakly to the negatively charged groups in the root **cell** walls, so that excesses of other cations such as K, NH, Ca, and Mn can all impede uptake.(Kurvits and Kirkby, 1980; In acid soils Al is a particularly strong inhibitor of Mg uptake. The inhibition by...
173. ...e difficult to develop. When Mg is plentiful, in general the plants take up the ion and store it (Stelzer "et al.", 1990). However, if this is followed by drought then ionic concentrations within the **cell** can increase dramatically. High cytoplasmic Mg concentrations block a K channel in the inner envelope membrane of the chloroplast, in turn inhibiting the removal of H ions from the chloroplast stroma...
174. ...cumbent Republican Jay Dickey in 2000 by portraying himself as a moderate, like the political tendencies of his district. In contrast, Dickey was seen as controversial because of his comments on stem **cell** research and homosexuality. Additionally, he had voted to impeach Bill Clinton, which was a highly unpopular move in Clinton's home district. Clinton, who had won the district by wide margins in both...
175. ...fur, and iodine have been used extensively to trace the path of biochemical reactions. A radioactive tracer can also be used to track the distribution of a substance within a natural system such as a **cell** or tissue, or as a flow tracer to track fluid flow. Radioactive tracers are also used to determine the location of fractures created by hydraulic fracturing in natural gas production. Radioactive tra...
176. ...ial NICE decisions have concerned donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine (review) and memantine for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and bevacizumab, sorafenib, sunitinib and temsirolimus for renal **cell** carcinoma. All these are drugs with a high cost per treatment and NICE has either rejected or restricted their use in the NHS on the grounds that they are not cost-effective. A statement published by...
177. ...oot. In the leaves, stomata open to take in carbon dioxide and expel oxygen. The carbon dioxide molecules are used as the carbon source in photosynthesis. The root, especially the root hair, a unique **cell**, is the essential organ for the uptake of nutrients. The structure and architecture of the root can alter the rate of nutrient uptake. Nutrient ions are transported to the center of the root, the ste...
178. ...r the rate of nutrient uptake. Nutrient ions are transported to the center of the root, the stele, in order for the nutrients to reach the conducting tissues, xylem and phloem. The Casparian strip, a **cell** wall outside the stele but in the root, prevents passive flow of water and nutrients, helping to regulate the uptake of nutrients and water. Xylem moves water and mineral ions in the plant and phloem...
179. ...ipids, that are important in membrane development and function. It is present in both organic and inorganic forms, both of which are readily translocated within the plant. All energy transfers in the **cell** are critically dependent on phosphorus. As with all living things, phosphorus is part of the Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which is of immediate use in all processes that require energy with the cell...
180. ...osphate (ATP), which is of immediate use in all processes that require energy with the cells. Phosphorus can also be used to modify the activity of various enzymes by phosphorylation, and is used for **cell** signaling. Phosphorus is concentrated at the most actively growing points of a plant and stored within seeds in anticipation of their germination. Unlike other major elements, potassium does not ente...
181. ...plants in substantial amounts. It is essential for enzyme activity including enzymes involved in primary metabolism. It plays a role in turgor regulation, effecting the functioning of the stomata and **cell** volume growth. It seems to be of particular importance in leaves and at growing points. Potassium is outstanding among the nutrient elements for its mobility and solubility within plant tissues. Proc...
182. ...of spruce. Potassium helps in fruit coloration, shape and also increases its brix. Hence, quality fruits are produced in potassium-rich soils. Research has linked K transport with auxin homeostasis, **cell** signaling, cell expansion, membrane trafficking and phloem transport. Sulfur is a structural component of some amino acids (including cystein and methionine) and vitamins, and is essential for chloro...
183. ...ssium helps in fruit coloration, shape and also increases its brix. Hence, quality fruits are produced in potassium-rich soils. Research has linked K transport with auxin homeostasis, cell signaling, **cell** expansion, membrane trafficking and phloem transport. Sulfur is a structural component of some amino acids (including cystein and methionine) and vitamins, and is essential for chloroplast growth and...
184. ...rsion of nitrate into amino acids and then into protein. Calcium in plants occurs chiefly in the leaves, with lower concentrations in seeds, fruits, and roots. A major function is as a constituent of **cell** walls. When coupled with certain acidic compounds of the jelly-like pectins of the middle lamella, calcium forms an insoluble salt. It is also intimately involved in meristems, and is particularly im...
185. ...mpounds of the jelly-like pectins of the middle lamella, calcium forms an insoluble salt. It is also intimately involved in meristems, and is particularly important in root development, with roles in **cell** division, cell elongation, and the detoxification of hydrogen ions. Other functions attributed to calcium are: the neutralization of organic acids; inhibition of some potassium-activated ions; and a...
186. ...jelly-like pectins of the middle lamella, calcium forms an insoluble salt. It is also intimately involved in meristems, and is particularly important in root development, with roles in cell division, **cell** elongation, and the detoxification of hydrogen ions. Other functions attributed to calcium are: the neutralization of organic acids; inhibition of some potassium-activated ions; and a role in nitroge...
187. ...t of molybdenum deficiency is usually associated with the reduced activity of one or more of these enzymes. Boron has many functions in a plant: it affects flowering and fruiting, pollen germination, **cell** division, and active salt absorption. The metabolism of amino acids and proteins, carbohydrates, calcium, and water are strongly affected by boron. Many of those listed functions may be embodied by i...
188. ...of amino acids and proteins, carbohydrates, calcium, and water are strongly affected by boron. Many of those listed functions may be embodied by its function in moving the highly polar sugars through **cell** membranes by reducing their polarity and hence the energy needed to pass the sugar. If sugar cannot pass to the fastest growing parts rapidly enough, those parts die. Copper is important for photosyn...
189. ...is important for photosynthesis. Symptoms for copper deficiency include chlorosis. It is involved in many enzyme processes; necessary for proper photosynthesis; involved in the manufacture of lignin (**cell** walls) and involved in grain production. It is difficult to find in some soil conditions. Manganese is necessary for photosynthesis, including the building of chloroplasts. Manganese deficiency may r...
190. ...dance in the environment and hence if needed it is available. It is found in the structures of plants and improves the health of plants. In plants, silicon has been shown in experiments to strengthen **cell** walls, improve plant strength, health, and productivity. There have been studies showing evidence of silicon improving drought and frost resistance, decreasing lodging potential and boosting the plan...
191. ...trations of P or C may negate these effects. Boron deficiencies effecting seed yields and pollen fertility are common in laterite soils. Boron is essential for the proper forming and strengthening of **cell** walls. Lack of boron results in short thick cells producing stunted fruiting bodies and roots. Deficiency results in the death of the terminal growing points and stunted growth. Inadequate amounts of...
192. ...bind specific biological macromolecules and act as an effector, altering the activity or function of the target. Small molecules can have a variety of biological functions or applications, serving as **cell** signaling molecules, drugs in medicine, pesticides in farming, and in many other roles. These compounds can be natural (such as secondary metabolites) or artificial (such as antiviral drugs); they ma...
193. ...may be detrimental (such as teratogens and carcinogens). The upper molecular-weight limit for a small molecule is approximately 900 daltons, which allows for the possibility to rapidly diffuse across **cell** membranes so that it can reach intracellular sites of action. This molecular weight cutoff is also a necessary but insufficient condition for oral bioavailability as it allows for transcellular trans...
194. ...drugs can be proteins (e.g., insulin and other biologic medical products). With the exception of therapeutic antibodies, many proteins are degraded if administered orally and most often cannot cross **cell** membranes. Small molecules are more likely to be absorbed, although some of them are only absorbed after oral administration if given as prodrugs. One advantage that small molecule drugs (SMDs) have...
195. ...s are often resistant to their effects. A variety of organisms including bacteria, fungi, and plants, produce small molecule secondary metabolites also known as natural products, which play a role in **cell** signaling, pigmentation and in defense against predation. Secondary metabolites are a rich source of biologically active compounds and hence are often used as research tools and leads for drug discov...
196. ...atient recruitment, with its MUC1 antigen-specific cancer immunotherapy drug, tecemotide (L-BLP25), missing its Phase I/II endpoint of increasing overall survival in patients with Stage III non-small **cell** lung cancer. Later in September it was announced that the company would acquire Sigma-Aldrich for $17 billion. After the acquisition was completed in 2015, Merck had around 50,000 employees. In Novem...
197. ...ience Chemicals.Merck Millipore had three business units: Bioscience, Lab Solutions and Process Solutions. The Bioscience business unit is dedicated to solutions and reagents for protein research and **cell** biology, cell culture solutions, as well as to products and services for the development of biopharmaceutical agents. The scope of activities of Lab Solutions included laboratory chemicals and other...
198. ...s.Merck Millipore had three business units: Bioscience, Lab Solutions and Process Solutions. The Bioscience business unit is dedicated to solutions and reagents for protein research and cell biology, **cell** culture solutions, as well as to products and services for the development of biopharmaceutical agents. The scope of activities of Lab Solutions included laboratory chemicals and other materials for...
199. ...disease risk. The possible effect of small amounts of oxidative stress is under laboratory research. Mitochondria are sometimes described as "cellular power plants" because they generate most of the **cell**'s supply of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), a source of chemical energy. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been discarded as unwanted byproducts of oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria by the pro...
200. ...oxin to consider exposure risk of small doses. Agonist An agonist is a chemical that activates a receptor to produce a biological response. Receptors are cellular proteins whose activation causes the **cell** to modify what it is currently doing. In contrast, an antagonist blocks the action of the agonist, while an inverse agonist causes an action opposite to that of the agonist. From the Greek αγωνιστής...
201. ...receptor, which is a G protein-coupled receptor(GPCR), the endogenous agonist is acetylcholine. The binding of this neurotransmitter causes the conformational changes that propagate a signal into the **cell**. The conformational changes are the primary effect of the agonist, and are related to the agonist's binding affinity and agonist efficacy. Other agonists that bind to this receptor will fall under on...
202. ...y the NMDA receptor is that the mechanism or response of agonists can be blocked by a variety of chemical and biological factors. NMDA receptors specifically are blocked by a magnesium ion unless the **cell** is also experiencing depolarization. These differences show that agonists have unique mechanisms of action depending on the receptor activated and the response needed. The goal and process remains ge...
203. ...ent changes in conformation to cause the desired response at the receptor. This response as discussed above can vary from allowing flow of ions to activating a GPCR and transmitting a signal into the **cell**. Potency is the amount of agonist needed to elicit a desired response. The potency of an agonist is inversely related to its half maximal effective concentration (EC) value. The EC can be measured fo...
204. ...that SV40 was present as a contaminant in polio vaccine lots that had been administered to 90% of the children in the United States. The contamination appears to have originated both in the original **cell** stock and in monkey tissue used for production. In 2004 the National Cancer Institute announced that it had concluded that SV40 is not associated with cancer in people. Other notable new vaccines of...
205. ...l space when compared to HTS. Phenotypic screens have also provided new chemical starting points in drug discovery.  A variety of models have been used including yeast, zebrafish, worms, immortalized **cell** lines, primary cell lines, patient-derived cell lines and whole animal models. These screens are designed to find compounds which reverse a disease phenotype such as death, protein aggregation, mutan...
206. ...d to HTS. Phenotypic screens have also provided new chemical starting points in drug discovery.  A variety of models have been used including yeast, zebrafish, worms, immortalized cell lines, primary **cell** lines, patient-derived cell lines and whole animal models. These screens are designed to find compounds which reverse a disease phenotype such as death, protein aggregation, mutant protein expression...
207. ...have also provided new chemical starting points in drug discovery.  A variety of models have been used including yeast, zebrafish, worms, immortalized cell lines, primary cell lines, patient-derived **cell** lines and whole animal models. These screens are designed to find compounds which reverse a disease phenotype such as death, protein aggregation, mutant protein expression, or cell proliferation as e...
208. ...s, patient-derived cell lines and whole animal models. These screens are designed to find compounds which reverse a disease phenotype such as death, protein aggregation, mutant protein expression, or **cell** proliferation as examples in a more holistic cell model or organism. Smaller screening sets are often used for these screens, especially when the models are expensive or time-consuming to run.  In ma...
209. ...els. These screens are designed to find compounds which reverse a disease phenotype such as death, protein aggregation, mutant protein expression, or cell proliferation as examples in a more holistic **cell** model or organism. Smaller screening sets are often used for these screens, especially when the models are expensive or time-consuming to run.  In many cases, the exact mechanism of action of hits fr...
210. ...wn to affect multiple animal tissues. The first discovered medicinal properties of the isolated compound was involved in pain and fever management. They also play an active role in the suppression of **cell** proliferation. They have the ability to induce death in lymphoblastic leukemia and other human cancer cells. One of the most common drugs derived from salicylates is aspirin, also known as acetylsali...
211. ...amline and expedite the drug development process, enabling transient and localized expression of immunostimulatory molecules. In vitro transcribed (IVT) mRNA allows for delivery to various accessible **cell** types via the blood or alternative pathways. The use of IVT mRNA serves to convey specific genetic information into a person's cells, with the primary objective of preventing or altering a particular...
212. ...vein termination number, and palisade ratio. The stomatal index is the percentage formed by the number of stomata divided by the total number of epidermal cells, with each stoma being counted as one **cell**. formula_1 where: S.I. is the stomatal index S is the number of stomata per unit area E is the number of epidermal cells in the same unit area. S-Adenosyl methionine "S"-Adenosyl methionine (SAM), al...
213. ...used antidepressants (imipramine and escitalopram). SAM has recently been shown to play a role in epigenetic regulation. DNA methylation is a key regulator in epigenetic modification during mammalian **cell** development and differentiation. In mouse models, excess levels of SAM have been implicated in erroneous methylation patterns associated with diabetic neuropathy. SAM serves as the methyl donor in cy...
214. ...rash. Other severe side effects include heart failure, allergic reactions, and lung disease. Use during pregnancy may harm the baby. Trastuzumab works by binding to the HER2 receptor and slowing down **cell** replication. Trastuzumab was approved for medical use in the United States in September 1998, and in the European Union in August 2000. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medi...
215. ...dly, in virtually all patients. A mechanism of resistance involves failure to downregulate p27 (Kip1) as well as suppressing p27 translocation to the nucleus in breast cancer, enabling cdk2 to induce **cell** proliferation. In May 2021, the FDA approved pembrolizumab in combination with trastuzumab, fluoropyrimidine- and platinum-containing chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of people with locally...
216. ...undertaken during the trastuzumab treatment period. The decline in ejection fraction appears to be reversible. Trastuzumab downregulates neuregulin-1 (NRG-1), which is essential for the activation of **cell** survival pathways in cardiomyocytes and the maintenance of cardiac function. NRG-1 activates the MAPK pathway and the PI3K/AKT pathway as well as focal adhesion kinases (FAK). These are all significa...
217. ...–30% of early-stage breast cancers. Trastuzumab is a monoclonal antibody targeting HER2, inducing an immune-mediated response that causes internalization and recycling of HER2. It may also upregulate **cell** cycle inhibitors such as p21 and p27. The HER2 pathway promotes cell growth and division when it is functioning normally; however, when it is overexpressed, cell growth accelerates beyond its normal...
218. ...ody targeting HER2, inducing an immune-mediated response that causes internalization and recycling of HER2. It may also upregulate cell cycle inhibitors such as p21 and p27. The HER2 pathway promotes **cell** growth and division when it is functioning normally; however, when it is overexpressed, cell growth accelerates beyond its normal limits. In some types of cancer, the pathway is exploited to promote...
219. ...cling of HER2. It may also upregulate cell cycle inhibitors such as p21 and p27. The HER2 pathway promotes cell growth and division when it is functioning normally; however, when it is overexpressed, **cell** growth accelerates beyond its normal limits. In some types of cancer, the pathway is exploited to promote rapid cell growth and proliferation and hence tumor formation. The EGF pathway includes the r...
220. ...h and division when it is functioning normally; however, when it is overexpressed, cell growth accelerates beyond its normal limits. In some types of cancer, the pathway is exploited to promote rapid **cell** growth and proliferation and hence tumor formation. The EGF pathway includes the receptors HER1 (EGFR), HER2, HER3, and HER4; the binding of ligands (e.g. EGF etc.) to HER receptors is required to ac...
221. ...well as the PI3 kinase/AKT pathway, which in turn activates the NF-κB pathway. In cancer cells the HER2 protein can be expressed up to 100 times more than in normal cells (2 million versus 20,000 per **cell**). The HER receptors are proteins that are embedded in the cell membrane and communicate molecular signals from outside the cell (molecules called EGFs) to inside the cell, and turn genes on and off....
222. ...NF-κB pathway. In cancer cells the HER2 protein can be expressed up to 100 times more than in normal cells (2 million versus 20,000 per cell). The HER receptors are proteins that are embedded in the **cell** membrane and communicate molecular signals from outside the cell (molecules called EGFs) to inside the cell, and turn genes on and off. The HER (human epidermal growth factor receptor) protein, binds...
223. ...up to 100 times more than in normal cells (2 million versus 20,000 per cell). The HER receptors are proteins that are embedded in the cell membrane and communicate molecular signals from outside the **cell** (molecules called EGFs) to inside the cell, and turn genes on and off. The HER (human epidermal growth factor receptor) protein, binds to human epidermal growth factor, and stimulates cell proliferat...
224. ...(2 million versus 20,000 per cell). The HER receptors are proteins that are embedded in the cell membrane and communicate molecular signals from outside the cell (molecules called EGFs) to inside the **cell**, and turn genes on and off. The HER (human epidermal growth factor receptor) protein, binds to human epidermal growth factor, and stimulates cell proliferation. In some cancers, notably certain types...
225. ...utside the cell (molecules called EGFs) to inside the cell, and turn genes on and off. The HER (human epidermal growth factor receptor) protein, binds to human epidermal growth factor, and stimulates **cell** proliferation. In some cancers, notably certain types of breast cancer, HER2 is over-expressed and causes cancer cells to reproduce uncontrollably. HER2 is localized at the cell surface, and carries...
226. ...actor, and stimulates cell proliferation. In some cancers, notably certain types of breast cancer, HER2 is over-expressed and causes cancer cells to reproduce uncontrollably. HER2 is localized at the **cell** surface, and carries signals from outside the cell to the inside. Signaling compounds called mitogens (specifically EGF in this case) arrive at the cell membrane, and bind to the extracellular domain...
227. ...ancers, notably certain types of breast cancer, HER2 is over-expressed and causes cancer cells to reproduce uncontrollably. HER2 is localized at the cell surface, and carries signals from outside the **cell** to the inside. Signaling compounds called mitogens (specifically EGF in this case) arrive at the cell membrane, and bind to the extracellular domain of the HER family of receptors. Those bound protei...
228. ...oduce uncontrollably. HER2 is localized at the cell surface, and carries signals from outside the cell to the inside. Signaling compounds called mitogens (specifically EGF in this case) arrive at the **cell** membrane, and bind to the extracellular domain of the HER family of receptors. Those bound proteins then link (dimerize), activating the receptor. HER2 sends a signal from its intracellular domain, a...
229. ...eptor. HER2 sends a signal from its intracellular domain, activating several different biochemical pathways. These include the PI3K/Akt pathway and the MAPK pathway. Signals on these pathways promote **cell** proliferation and the growth of blood vessels to nourish the tumor (angiogenesis). ERBB2 is the preferred dimerization partner for the other family members and ERBB2 heterodimers signaling is stronge...
230. ...regulator of actin polymerization N-WASP, mediated by ERK1/2, and of the actin-depolymerizing protein cofilin, mediated by EGFR/ERBB1. Furthermore, this latter event may be inhibited by the negative **cell** motility regulator p140Cap, as we found that p140Cap overexpression led to cofilin deactivation and inhibition of CDR formation. Normal cell division—mitosis—has checkpoints that keep cell division u...
231. ...ermore, this latter event may be inhibited by the negative cell motility regulator p140Cap, as we found that p140Cap overexpression led to cofilin deactivation and inhibition of CDR formation. Normal **cell** division—mitosis—has checkpoints that keep cell division under control. Some of the proteins that control this cycle are called cdk2 (CDKs). Overexpression of HER2 sidesteps these checkpoints, causin...
232. ...e negative cell motility regulator p140Cap, as we found that p140Cap overexpression led to cofilin deactivation and inhibition of CDR formation. Normal cell division—mitosis—has checkpoints that keep **cell** division under control. Some of the proteins that control this cycle are called cdk2 (CDKs). Overexpression of HER2 sidesteps these checkpoints, causing cells to proliferate in an uncontrolled fashio...
233. ...r. Monoclonal antibodies that bind to this region have been shown to reverse the phenotype of HER2/neu expressing tumor cells. Cells treated with trastuzumab undergo arrest during the G1 phase of the **cell** cycle so there is reduced proliferation. It has been suggested that trastuzumab does not alter HER-2 expression, but downregulates activation of AKT. In addition, trastuzumab suppresses angiogenesis...
234. ...s CDKN1B. Trastuzumab has been shown to inhibit HER2/neu ectodomain cleavage in breast cancer cells. Experiments in laboratory animals indicate that antibodies, including trastuzumab, when bound to a **cell**, induce immune cells to kill that cell, and that such antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity is another important mechanism of action. Trastuzumab inhibits the effects of overexpression of HER...
235. ...inhibit HER2/neu ectodomain cleavage in breast cancer cells. Experiments in laboratory animals indicate that antibodies, including trastuzumab, when bound to a cell, induce immune cells to kill that **cell**, and that such antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity is another important mechanism of action. Trastuzumab inhibits the effects of overexpression of HER2. If the breast cancer does not overex...
236. ...n breast cancer cells. Experiments in laboratory animals indicate that antibodies, including trastuzumab, when bound to a cell, induce immune cells to kill that cell, and that such antibody-dependent **cell**-mediated cytotoxicity is another important mechanism of action. Trastuzumab inhibits the effects of overexpression of HER2. If the breast cancer does not overexpress HER2, trastuzumab will have no be...
237. ...he institute's new electron microscope by adding negative stain to dry phospholipids. The resemblance to the plasmalemma was obvious, and the microscopic pictures provided the first evidence that the **cell** membrane is a bilayer lipid structure. The following year, Bangham, his colleague Malcolm Standish, and Gerald Weissmann, an American physician, established the integrity of this closed, bilayer stru...
238. .... Later, Weissmann, then an emeritus professor at New York University School of Medicine, recalled the two of them sitting in a Cambridge pub, reflecting on the role of lipid sheets in separating the **cell** interior from its exterior milieu. This insight, they felt, would be to cell function what the discovery of the double helix had been to genetics. As Bangham had been calling his lipid structures "mu...
239. ...of Medicine, recalled the two of them sitting in a Cambridge pub, reflecting on the role of lipid sheets in separating the cell interior from its exterior milieu. This insight, they felt, would be to **cell** function what the discovery of the double helix had been to genetics. As Bangham had been calling his lipid structures "multilamellar smectic mesophases," or sometimes "Banghasomes," Weissmann propos...
240. ...e probability of a specific liposome containing the required number of copies of the compound. To deliver the molecules to a site of action, the lipid bilayer can fuse with other bilayers such as the **cell** membrane, thus delivering the liposome contents; this is a complex and non-spontaneous event, however, that does not apply to nutrients and drug delivery. By preparing liposomes in a solution of DNA...
241. ...me (protons can pass through some membranes), the drug will also be neutralized, allowing it to freely pass through a membrane. These liposomes work to deliver drug by diffusion rather than by direct **cell** fusion. However, the efficacy of this pH regulated passage depends on the physiochemical nature of the drug in question (e.g. pKa and having a basic or acid nature), which is very low for many drugs....
242. ...phagocytosis. These liposomes may be digested while in the macrophage's phagosome, thus releasing its drug. Liposomes can also be decorated with opsonins and ligands to activate endocytosis in other **cell** types. Regarding pH-sensitive liposomes, there are three mechanisms of drug delivery intracellularly, which occurs via endocytosis. This is possible because of the acidic environment within endosomes...
243. ...omes (Val-ILs) as a novel nanoparticle technology. In the context of hematological cancers, Val-ILs have the potential to be used as a precise and effective therapy based on targeted vesicle-mediated **cell** death.  The use of liposomes for transformation or transfection of DNA into a host cell is known as lipofection. In addition to gene and drug delivery applications, liposomes can be used as carriers...
244. ...rs, Val-ILs have the potential to be used as a precise and effective therapy based on targeted vesicle-mediated cell death.  The use of liposomes for transformation or transfection of DNA into a host **cell** is known as lipofection. In addition to gene and drug delivery applications, liposomes can be used as carriers for the delivery of dyes to textiles, pesticides to plants, enzymes and nutritional supp...
245. ...ed drug delivery site. These targeting ligands could be monoclonal antibodies (making an immunoliposome), vitamins, or specific antigens, but must be accessible. Targeted liposomes can target certain **cell** type in the body and deliver drugs that would otherwise be systemically delivered. Naturally toxic drugs can be much less systemically toxic if delivered only to diseased tissues. Polymersomes, morph...
246. ...y American biologist Bailey Edgren. Biochemical receptors are large protein molecules that can be activated by the binding of a ligand such as a hormone or a drug. Receptors can be membrane-bound, as **cell** surface receptors, or inside the cell as intracellular receptors, such as nuclear receptors including those of the mitochondrion. Binding occurs as a result of non-covalent interactions between the r...
247. ...ochemical receptors are large protein molecules that can be activated by the binding of a ligand such as a hormone or a drug. Receptors can be membrane-bound, as cell surface receptors, or inside the **cell** as intracellular receptors, such as nuclear receptors including those of the mitochondrion. Binding occurs as a result of non-covalent interactions between the receptor and its ligand, at locations c...
248. ...with opposing activities at a single receptor. Agonists were thought to turn "on" a "single" cellular response by binding to the receptor, thus initiating a biochemical mechanism for change within a **cell**. Antagonists were thought to turn "off" that response by 'blocking' the receptor from the agonist. This definition also remains in use for physiological antagonists, substances that have opposing phy...
249. ...population apparently elicits the maximal effect achievable in a particular tissue. The simplest interpretation of receptor reserve is that it is a model that states there are excess receptors on the **cell** surface than what is necessary for full effect. Taking a more sophisticated approach, receptor reserve is an integrative measure of the response-inducing capacity of an agonist (in some receptor mode...
250. ...Pharmacodynamics (Net-MCPD) further extends the concept of MCPD to model regulatory genomic networks together with signal transduction pathways, as part of a complex of interacting components in the **cell**. Toxicodynamics (TD) and pharmacodynamics (PD) link a therapeutic agent or toxicant, or toxin (xenobiotic)'s dosage to the features, amount, and time course of its biological action. The mechanism of...
251. ...re trends in medicines usage. Semisynthesis Semisynthesis, or partial chemical synthesis, is a type of chemical synthesis that uses chemical compounds isolated from natural sources (such as microbial **cell** cultures or plant material) as the starting materials to produce novel compounds with distinct chemical and medicinal properties. The novel compounds generally have a high molecular weight or a compl...
252. ...an electrolyte solution have been used to determine the energy required to transfer a charged species across the interface. There are attempts to provide partition coefficients for drugs at a single-**cell** level. This strategy requires methods for the determination of concentrations in individual cells, i.e., with Fluorescence correlation spectroscopy or quantitative Image analysis. Partition coefficie...
253. ...rategy requires methods for the determination of concentrations in individual cells, i.e., with Fluorescence correlation spectroscopy or quantitative Image analysis. Partition coefficient at a single-**cell** level provides information on cellular uptake mechanism. There are many situations where prediction of partition coefficients prior to experimental measurement is useful. For example, tens of thousan...
254. ...rties of a hydrogel are highly dependent on the type and quantity of its crosslinks, making photopolymerization a popular choice for fine-tuning hydrogels. This technique has seen considerable use in **cell** and tissue engineering applications due to the ability to inject or mold a precursor solution loaded with cells into a wound site, then solidify it in situ. Physically crosslinked hydrogels can be pr...
255. ...n permeability, which is required since the cornea lacks vasculature. Implanted or injected hydrogels have the potential to support tissue regeneration by mechanical tissue support, localized drug or **cell** delivery, local cell recruitement or immunomodulation, or encapsulation of nanoparticles for local photothermal therapy or brachytherapy. Polymeric drug delivery systems have overcome challenges due...
256. ...is required since the cornea lacks vasculature. Implanted or injected hydrogels have the potential to support tissue regeneration by mechanical tissue support, localized drug or cell delivery, local **cell** recruitement or immunomodulation, or encapsulation of nanoparticles for local photothermal therapy or brachytherapy. Polymeric drug delivery systems have overcome challenges due to their biodegradabi...
257. ...it too. The highest concentration is in the brain, where it plays an important role in making other neurotransmitters and some steroid hormones bind to their receptors. In other tissues, it mediates **cell** signal transduction in response to a variety of hormones, neurotransmitters, and growth factors and participates in osmoregulation. In most mammalian cells the concentrations of "myo"-inositol are 5...
258. ...ms, like the nematode "Caenorhabditis elegans" and zebrafish ("Danio rerio"). In 2016-2018 plate manufacturers began producing specialized chemistry to allow for mass production of ultra-low adherent **cell** repellent surfaces which facilitated the rapid development of HTS amenable assays to address cancer drug discovery in 3D tissues such as organoids and spheroids; a more physiologically relevant forma...
259. ...ity in the Center for Chemical Genomics. Columbia University has an HTS shared resource facility with ~300,000 diverse small molecules and ~10,000 known bioactive compounds available for biochemical, **cell**-based and NGS-based screening. The Rockefeller University has an open-access HTS Resource Center HTSRC (The Rockefeller University, HTSRC), which offers a library of over 380,000 compounds. Northwest...
260. ...t 2017, the company announced it would acquire Kite Pharma for $11.9 billion, equating to $180 cash per share, a 29% premium over the closing price of the shares. The deal was Gilead's entry into the **cell** therapy market and added a chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) therapy candidate to the company's portfolio. By 2022 this acquisition had led to two marketed products for lymphoma: Yescarta and...
261. ...or $11.9 billion, equating to $180 cash per share, a 29% premium over the closing price of the shares. The deal was Gilead's entry into the cell therapy market and added a chimeric antigen receptor T **cell** (CAR-T) therapy candidate to the company's portfolio. By 2022 this acquisition had led to two marketed products for lymphoma: Yescarta and Tecartus. In November, the company announced it will acquire...
262. ...(CAR-T) therapy candidate to the company's portfolio. By 2022 this acquisition had led to two marketed products for lymphoma: Yescarta and Tecartus. In November, the company announced it will acquire **Cell** Design Labs for up to $567 million, after it indirectly acquired a stake of 12.2% via the Kite Pharma deal. On May 9, 2019, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced that Gilead Scie...
263. ...ber 2021, the company was added to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. In January 2022, Gilead pulled its cancer drug Zydelig (idelalisib) from its accelerated approval in relapsed follicular B-**cell** non-Hodgkin lymphoma (FL) and relapsed small lymphocytic leukemia (SLL). In September, the company completed its acquisition of MiroBio for $405 million. In February 2023, the business, through Kite...
264. ...ibit the Tyndall effect, which is the scattering of light by the particles in the colloid. The size of the particles can vary from 1 nm - 100 nm. Examples include amongst others blood, pigmented ink, **cell** fluids, paint, antacids and mud. Artificial sols can be prepared by two main methods: dispersion and condensation. In the dispersion method, solid particles are reduced to colloidal dimensions throug...
265. ...for the production of reduced glutathione in erythrocytes and it is essential for the function of catalase. Glutathione and catalase protect cells from oxidative stress that would otherwise result in **cell** lysis. Certain variants in "G6PD" result in G6PD deficiency, in which cells are more susceptible to oxidative stress. When medications that have a significant oxidative effect are administered to ind...
266. ...can be found that focus on modeling a particular cellular process such as the growth cycle of "Caulobacter crescentus". These efforts fall far short of an exact, fully predictive computer model of a **cell**'s entire behavior. Limitations in the understanding of molecular dynamics and cell biology, as well as the absence of available computer processing power, force large simplifying assumptions that con...
267. ...th cycle of "Caulobacter crescentus". These efforts fall far short of an exact, fully predictive computer model of a cell's entire behavior. Limitations in the understanding of molecular dynamics and **cell** biology, as well as the absence of available computer processing power, force large simplifying assumptions that constrain the usefulness of present in silico cell models. Digital genetic sequences o...
268. ...rstanding of molecular dynamics and cell biology, as well as the absence of available computer processing power, force large simplifying assumptions that constrain the usefulness of present in silico **cell** models. Digital genetic sequences obtained from DNA sequencing may be stored in sequence databases, be analyzed (see Sequence analysis), be digitally altered or be used as templates for creating new...
269. ...eric names) for drugs by establishing logical nomenclature classifications based on pharmacological or chemical relationships. In addition to drugs, the USAN Council names agents for gene therapy and **cell** therapy, contact lens polymers, surgical materials, diagnostics, carriers, and substances used as an excipient. The USAN Council works in conjunction with the World Health Organization (WHO) internat...
270. ...roteins, lipids and carbohydrates) contain the majority of the carbon and nitrogen and most of the oxygen and hydrogen is present as water. The entire collection of metal-containing biomolecules in a **cell** is called the metallome. Paul Ehrlich used organoarsenic (“arsenicals”) for the treatment of syphilis, demonstrating the relevance of metals, or at least metalloids, to medicine, that blossomed with...
271. ...dant inorganic elements act as ionic electrolytes. The most important ions are sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, chloride, phosphate, and bicarbonate. The maintenance of precise gradients across **cell** membranes maintains osmotic pressure and pH. Ions are also critical for nerves and muscles, as action potentials in these tissues are produced by the exchange of electrolytes between the extracellula...
272. ...muscles, as action potentials in these tissues are produced by the exchange of electrolytes between the extracellular fluid and the cytosol. Electrolytes enter and leave cells through proteins in the **cell** membrane called ion channels. For example, muscle contraction depends upon the movement of calcium, sodium and potassium through ion channels in the cell membrane and T-tubules. The transition metals...
273. ...enter and leave cells through proteins in the cell membrane called ion channels. For example, muscle contraction depends upon the movement of calcium, sodium and potassium through ion channels in the **cell** membrane and T-tubules. The transition metals are usually present as trace elements in organisms, with zinc and iron being most abundant. These metals are used as protein cofactors and signalling mol...
274. ...e members of a family of plant-based compounds called saponins. It has been tested as an adjuvant in various vaccines in attempts to improve their efficacy. It is believed to enhance both humoral and **cell**-mediated immunity. Isolation of QS-21 destroys the soap bark tree, prompting governments to regulate industrial extraction. A semi-synthesis strategy relies on purifying the prosapogenin (triterpene...
275. ...chemicals involved in normal metabolism. The solution that has evolved to address this problem is an elegant combination of physical barriers and low-specificity enzymatic systems. All organisms use **cell** membranes as hydrophobic permeability barriers to control access to their internal environment. Polar compounds cannot diffuse across these cell membranes, and the uptake of useful molecules is media...
276. ...d low-specificity enzymatic systems. All organisms use cell membranes as hydrophobic permeability barriers to control access to their internal environment. Polar compounds cannot diffuse across these **cell** membranes, and the uptake of useful molecules is mediated through transport proteins that specifically select substrates from the extracellular mixture. This selective uptake means that most hydrophi...
277. ...hemoprotein oxidoreductase, NADPH:P450 oxidoreductase, P450 reductase, POR, CPR, CYPOR, is a membrane-bound enzyme required for electron transfer to cytochrome P450 in the microsome of the eukaryotic **cell** from a FAD- and FMN-containing enzyme NADPH:cytochrome P450 reductase The general scheme of electron flow in the POR/P450 system is: NADPH FAD FMN P450 O During reduction reactions, a chemical can en...
278. ...m, which acts to dispose of the reactive aldehyde methylglyoxal, and the various antioxidant systems that remove reactive oxygen species. Quantitatively, the smooth endoplasmic reticulum of the liver **cell** is the principal organ of drug metabolism, although every biological tissue has some ability to metabolize drugs. Factors responsible for the liver's contribution to drug metabolism include that it i...
279. ...oxicity, leading to mutagenesis, teratogenesis, and carcinogenesis. Different classes of enzymes, such as P450 monooxygenases, epoxide hydrolase, or acetyltransferases can catalyze the process in the **cell**, mostly in the liver. Parent non-toxic chemicals are generally referred to as "protoxins". While toxication is generally undesirable, in certain cases it is required for the "in vivo" conversion of a...
280. ...unable resistive pulse sensing. Microelectrophoresis has the advantage of yielding an image of the moving particles. On the other hand, it is complicated by electro-osmosis at the walls of the sample **cell**. Electrophoretic light scattering is based on dynamic light scattering. It allows measurement in an open cell which eliminates the problem of electro-osmotic flow except for the case of a capillary c...
281. ...icles. On the other hand, it is complicated by electro-osmosis at the walls of the sample cell. Electrophoretic light scattering is based on dynamic light scattering. It allows measurement in an open **cell** which eliminates the problem of electro-osmotic flow except for the case of a capillary cell. And, it can be used to characterize very small particles, but at the price of the lost ability to display...
282. ...l. Electrophoretic light scattering is based on dynamic light scattering. It allows measurement in an open cell which eliminates the problem of electro-osmotic flow except for the case of a capillary **cell**. And, it can be used to characterize very small particles, but at the price of the lost ability to display images of moving particles. Tunable resistive pulse sensing (TRPS) is an impedance-based mea...
283. ...composed of amino acids and often require non-peptidic cofactors for proper function. The basic structures of cells and organisms are also built from primary metabolites, including components such as **cell** membranes (e.g., phospholipids), cell walls (e.g., peptidoglycan, chitin), and cytoskeletons (proteins). Enzymatic cofactors that are primary metabolites include several members of the vitamin B fami...
284. ...ire non-peptidic cofactors for proper function. The basic structures of cells and organisms are also built from primary metabolites, including components such as cell membranes (e.g., phospholipids), **cell** walls (e.g., peptidoglycan, chitin), and cytoskeletons (proteins). Enzymatic cofactors that are primary metabolites include several members of the vitamin B family. For instance, Vitamin B1 (thiamine...
285. ...into larger polysaccharides: Carbohydrates serve as a primary energy source for most life forms. Additionally, polysaccharides derived from simpler sugars are vital structural components, forming the **cell** walls of bacteria and plants. During photosynthesis, plants initially produce , a three-carbon triose. This can be converted into glucose (a six-carbon sugar) or various pentoses (five-carbon sugars)...
286. ...ound of elongation, the keto group is reduced, the intermediate alcohol dehydrated, and resulting enoyl-CoAs are reduced to acyl-CoAs. Fatty acids are essential components of lipid bilayers that form **cell** membranes and serve as energy storage in the form of fat in animals. The plant-derived fatty acid linoleic acid is converted in animals through elongation and desaturation into arachidonic acid, whic...
287. ...which leads to a diverse array of secondary metabolites. Beyond protein synthesis, AAAs and their derivatives have crucial roles in plant physiology, including pigment production, hormone synthesis, **cell** wall formation, and defense against various stresses. Because animals cannot synthesize these amino acids, the shikimate pathway has also become a target for herbicides, most notably glyphosate, whic...
288. ...illin, was isolated from the mold "Penicillium". Penicillin and related beta lactams work by inhibiting the -transpeptidase enzyme that is required by bacteria to cross link peptidoglycan to form the **cell** wall. Several natural product drugs target tubulin, which is a component of the cytoskeleton. These include the tubulin polymerization inhibitor colchicine isolated from the "Colchicum autumnale" (au...
289. ...etus or newborn baby. Rituximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody against the protein CD20, which is primarily found on the surface of immune system B cells. When it binds to this protein it triggers **cell** death. Rituximab was approved for medical use in 1997. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Rituxan is co-marketed by Biogen and Genentech in the US, by Roche elsewhe...
290. ...not express the CD20 surface antigen. In the United States, rituximab is indicated to treat: In the European Union, rituximab is indicated for the treatment of follicular lymphoma and diffuse large B **cell** non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (two types of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a blood cancer); chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL, another blood cancer affecting white blood cells); severe rheumatoid arthritis (an inf...
291. ...ia, a type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Rituximab in combination with hyaluronidase human, sold under the brand names Mabthera SC and Rituxan Hycela, is used to treat follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-**cell** lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. It is used in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide to treat previously untreated and previously treated CD20-positive chronic lymphocytic leuk...
292. ...r, only a very small number of cases have been recorded occurring in autoimmune diseases. Other autoimmune diseases that have been treated with rituximab include autoimmune hemolytic anemia, pure red **cell** aplasia, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), Evans syndrome, vasculitis (e.g., granulomatosis with polyangiitis), bullous skin disorders (for example...
293. ...multiple sclerosis and rituximab treatment had higher risk of severe COVID-19. In persons previously treated with rituximab for multiple sclerosis, nine of ten patients who delayed re-dosing until B **cell** counts passed 40/μL developed protective levels of antibodies after vaccination with the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. The antibody binds to the cell surface protein CD20. CD20 is widely expresse...
294. ...of ten patients who delayed re-dosing until B cell counts passed 40/μL developed protective levels of antibodies after vaccination with the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. The antibody binds to the **cell** surface protein CD20. CD20 is widely expressed on B cells, from early pre-B cells to later in differentiation, but it is absent on terminally differentiated plasma cells. Although the function of CD2...
295. ...y a role in Ca influx across plasma membranes, maintaining intracellular Ca concentration and allowing activation of B cells. Rituximab is relatively ineffective in elimination of cells with low CD20 **cell**-surface levels. It tends to stick to one side of B cells, where CD20 is, forming a cap and drawing proteins over to that side. The presence of the cap changes the effectiveness of natural killer (NK)...
296. ...of B cells, where CD20 is, forming a cap and drawing proteins over to that side. The presence of the cap changes the effectiveness of natural killer (NK) cells in destroying these B cells. When an NK **cell** latched onto the cap, it had an 80% success rate at killing the cell. In contrast, when the B cell lacked this asymmetric protein cluster, it was killed only 40% of the time. The following effects ha...
297. ...that side. The presence of the cap changes the effectiveness of natural killer (NK) cells in destroying these B cells. When an NK cell latched onto the cap, it had an 80% success rate at killing the **cell**. In contrast, when the B cell lacked this asymmetric protein cluster, it was killed only 40% of the time. The following effects have been found: The combined effect results in the elimination of B ce...
298. ...e cap changes the effectiveness of natural killer (NK) cells in destroying these B cells. When an NK cell latched onto the cap, it had an 80% success rate at killing the cell. In contrast, when the B **cell** lacked this asymmetric protein cluster, it was killed only 40% of the time. The following effects have been found: The combined effect results in the elimination of B cells (including the cancerous o...
299. ...t for the drug was issued in 1998 and expired in 2015. Based on its safety and effectiveness in clinical trials, rituximab was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1997 to treat B-**cell** non-Hodgkin lymphomas resistant to other chemotherapy regimens. Rituximab, in combination with CHOP chemotherapy, is superior to CHOP alone in the treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and many...
300. ...in 1997 to treat B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas resistant to other chemotherapy regimens. Rituximab, in combination with CHOP chemotherapy, is superior to CHOP alone in the treatment of diffuse large B-**cell** lymphoma and many other B-cell lymphomas. In 2010, it was authorized by the European Commission for maintenance treatment after initial treatment of follicular lymphoma. It is on the World Health Org...
301. ...gkin lymphomas resistant to other chemotherapy regimens. Rituximab, in combination with CHOP chemotherapy, is superior to CHOP alone in the treatment of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and many other B-**cell** lymphomas. In 2010, it was authorized by the European Commission for maintenance treatment after initial treatment of follicular lymphoma. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential M...
302. ...Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Originally available for intravenous injection (e.g. over 2.5 hrs), in 2016, it gained EU approval in a formulation for subcutaneous injection for B-**cell** CLL/lymphoma (CLL). In June 2017, the US FDA granted regular approval to the combination of rituximab and hyaluronidase human (brand name Rituxan Hycela) for adults with follicular lymphoma, diffuse...
303. ...phoma (CLL). In June 2017, the US FDA granted regular approval to the combination of rituximab and hyaluronidase human (brand name Rituxan Hycela) for adults with follicular lymphoma, diffuse large B-**cell** lymphoma, and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The combination is not indicated for the treatment of non-malignant conditions. The combination was approved based on clinical studies SABRINA/NCT01200758...
304. ...2011. In December 2021, the US FDA approved rituximab in combination with chemotherapy for children aged 6 months to 18 years with previously untreated, advanced stage, CD20-positive diffuse large B-**cell** lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, Burkitt-like lymphoma, or mature B-cell acute leukemia. Efficacy was evaluated in Inter-B-NHL Ritux 2010, a global multicenter, open-label, randomized 1:1 trial of partici...
305. ...n with chemotherapy for children aged 6 months to 18 years with previously untreated, advanced stage, CD20-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, Burkitt-like lymphoma, or mature B-**cell** acute leukemia. Efficacy was evaluated in Inter-B-NHL Ritux 2010, a global multicenter, open-label, randomized 1:1 trial of participants six months in age or older with previously untreated, advanced...
306. ...d in Inter-B-NHL Ritux 2010, a global multicenter, open-label, randomized 1:1 trial of participants six months in age or older with previously untreated, advanced stage, CD20-positive diffuse large B-**cell** lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, Burkitt-like lymphoma, or B-cell acute leukemia. Advanced stage was defined as stage III with elevated lactose dehydrogenase level (lactose dehydrogenase greater than twic...
307. ..., randomized 1:1 trial of participants six months in age or older with previously untreated, advanced stage, CD20-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, Burkitt lymphoma, Burkitt-like lymphoma, or B-**cell** acute leukemia. Advanced stage was defined as stage III with elevated lactose dehydrogenase level (lactose dehydrogenase greater than twice the institutional upper limit of normal values) or stage IV...
308. ...ute leukemia. Advanced stage was defined as stage III with elevated lactose dehydrogenase level (lactose dehydrogenase greater than twice the institutional upper limit of normal values) or stage IV B-**cell** non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or B-cell acute leukemia. Participants were randomized to Lymphome Malin B chemotherapy that consisted of corticosteroids, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, high-dose methotrexate...
309. ...defined as stage III with elevated lactose dehydrogenase level (lactose dehydrogenase greater than twice the institutional upper limit of normal values) or stage IV B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or B-**cell** acute leukemia. Participants were randomized to Lymphome Malin B chemotherapy that consisted of corticosteroids, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, high-dose methotrexate, cytarabine, doxorubicin, etopos...
310. ...fection is normally an acute infection, suggesting the drug in combination with lymphoma may have weakened the body's immune response to the virus. In 2009, a patient receiving methotrexate-induced B-**cell** depletion for cancer treatment, experienced a transient remittal of their myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) symptoms. While initial trials using Rituximab were promising, a...
311. ...y, the metal core-dielectric shell nanoparticle has demonstrated a zero backward scattering with enhanced forward scattering on a silicon substrate when surface plasmon is located in front of a solar **cell**. Nanoparticles of sufficiently uniform size may spontaneously settle into regular arrangements, forming a colloidal crystal. These arrangements may exhibit original physical properties, such as obser...
312. ...by functionalization with gallic acid groups. For biological applications, the surface coating should be polar to give high aqueous solubility and prevent nanoparticle aggregation. In serum or on the **cell** surface, highly charged coatings promote non-specific binding, whereas polyethylene glycol linked to terminal hydroxyl or methoxy groups repel non-specific interactions. By the immobilization of thio...
313. ...hancing properties can be introduced. Nanoparticles can be linked to biological molecules that can act as address tags, directing them to specific sites within the body specific organelles within the **cell**, or causing them to follow specifically the movement of individual protein or RNA molecules in living cells. Common address tags are monoclonal antibodies, aptamers, streptavidin, or peptides. These...
314. ...tally. Most of these are due to the high surface to volume ratio, which can make the particles very reactive or catalytic. They are also thought to aggregate on phospholipid bilayers and pass through **cell** membranes in organisms, and their interactions with biological systems are relatively unknown. However, it is unlikely the particles would enter the cell nucleus, Golgi complex, endoplasmic reticulum...
315. ...ate on phospholipid bilayers and pass through cell membranes in organisms, and their interactions with biological systems are relatively unknown. However, it is unlikely the particles would enter the **cell** nucleus, Golgi complex, endoplasmic reticulum or other internal cellular components due to the particle size and intercellular agglomeration. A recent study looking at the effects of ZnO nanoparticle...
316. ...anscription of estrogen-responsive genes is inhibited. A beneficial side effect of tamoxifen is that it prevents bone loss by acting as an ER agonist (i.e., mimicking the effects of estrogen) in this **cell** type. Therefore, by inhibiting osteoclasts, it prevents osteoporosis. When tamoxifen was launched as a drug, it was thought that tamoxifen would act as an ER antagonist in all tissues, including bone...
317. ...is a nonsteroidal agent with potent antiestrogenic properties which compete with estrogen for binding sites in breast and other tissues. Tamoxifen causes cells to remain in the G and G phases of the **cell** cycle. Because it prevents (pre)cancerous cells from dividing but does not cause cell death, tamoxifen is cytostatic rather than cytocidal. Tamoxifen binds to ER, the ER/tamoxifen complex recruits ot...
318. ...ogen for binding sites in breast and other tissues. Tamoxifen causes cells to remain in the G and G phases of the cell cycle. Because it prevents (pre)cancerous cells from dividing but does not cause **cell** death, tamoxifen is cytostatic rather than cytocidal. Tamoxifen binds to ER, the ER/tamoxifen complex recruits other proteins known as co-repressors, and the complex then binds to DNA to modulate gen...
319. ...tears can help dilute irritating allergens present in the tear film. Some eye drops may contain histamine antagonists or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAIDs), which suppress the optical mast **cell** responses to allergens including (but not limited to) aerosolized dust particles. Eye drops used in managing glaucoma help the eye's fluid to drain better and decrease the amount of fluid made by the...
320. ...on of any specific DNA sequence chosen by the experimentalist. There are two fundamental differences between the methods. One is that molecular cloning involves replication of the DNA within a living **cell**, while PCR replicates DNA in the test tube, free of living cells. The other difference is that cloning involves cutting and pasting DNA sequences, while PCR amplifies by copying an existing sequence....
321. ...involves cutting and pasting DNA sequences, while PCR amplifies by copying an existing sequence. Formation of recombinant DNA requires a cloning vector, a DNA molecule that replicates within a living **cell**. Vectors are generally derived from plasmids or viruses, and represent relatively small segments of DNA that contain necessary genetic signals for replication, as well as additional elements for conv...
322. ...n some cases, recombinant DNA can have deleterious effects even if it is not expressed. One mechanism by which this happens is insertional inactivation, in which the rDNA becomes inserted into a host **cell**'s gene. In some cases, researchers use this phenomenon to "knock out" genes to determine their biological function and importance. Another mechanism by which rDNA insertion into chromosomal DNA can a...
323. ...rmine their biological function and importance. Another mechanism by which rDNA insertion into chromosomal DNA can affect gene expression is by inappropriate activation of previously unexpressed host **cell** genes. This can happen, for example, when a recombinant DNA fragment containing an active promoter becomes located next to a previously silent host cell gene, or when a host cell gene that functions...
324. ...iate activation of previously unexpressed host cell genes. This can happen, for example, when a recombinant DNA fragment containing an active promoter becomes located next to a previously silent host **cell** gene, or when a host cell gene that functions to restrain gene expression undergoes insertional inactivation by recombinant DNA. Recombinant DNA is widely used in biotechnology, medicine and research...
325. ...sly unexpressed host cell genes. This can happen, for example, when a recombinant DNA fragment containing an active promoter becomes located next to a previously silent host cell gene, or when a host **cell** gene that functions to restrain gene expression undergoes insertional inactivation by recombinant DNA. Recombinant DNA is widely used in biotechnology, medicine and research. Today, recombinant prote...
326. ...food controversies. Furthermore, there are concerns about the by-products in biopharmaceutical production, where recombinant DNA result in specific protein products. The major by-product, termed host **cell** protein, comes from the host expression system and poses a threat to the patient's health and the overall environment. Common Technical Document The Common Technical Document (CTD) is a set of specif...
327. ...venously as short-term infusion in normal saline for treatment of solid and haematological malignancies. It is used to treat various types of cancers, including sarcomas, some carcinomas (e.g., small **cell** lung cancer, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and ovarian cancer), lymphomas, bladder cancer, cervical cancer, and germ cell tumors. The introduction of cisplatin as a standard treatment...
328. ...sion in normal saline for treatment of solid and haematological malignancies. It is used to treat various types of cancers, including sarcomas, some carcinomas (e.g., small cell lung cancer, squamous **cell** carcinoma of the head and neck and ovarian cancer), lymphomas, bladder cancer, cervical cancer, and germ cell tumors. The introduction of cisplatin as a standard treatment for testicular cancer impro...
329. ...s of cancers, including sarcomas, some carcinomas (e.g., small cell lung cancer, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and ovarian cancer), lymphomas, bladder cancer, cervical cancer, and germ **cell** tumors. The introduction of cisplatin as a standard treatment for testicular cancer improved remission rates from 5-10% before 1974 to 75-85% by 1984. Cisplatin has a number of side effects that can...
330. ...Following administration, one chloride ion is slowly displaced by water to give the aquo complex "cis"-[PtCl(NH)(HO)], in a process termed aquation. Dissociation of the chloride is favored inside the **cell** because the intracellular chloride concentration is only 3–20% of the approximately 100 mM chloride concentration in the extracellular fluid. The water molecule in "cis"-[PtCl(NH)(HO)] is itself easi...
331. ...equent to formation of [PtCl(guanine-DNA)(NH)], crosslinking can occur via displacement of the other chloride, typically by another guanine. Cisplatin crosslinks DNA in several ways, interfering with **cell** division by mitosis. The damaged DNA elicits DNA repair mechanisms, which in turn activate apoptosis when repair proves impossible. In 2008, apoptosis induced by cisplatin on human colon cancer cells...
332. ...State University discovered that electrolysis of platinum electrodes generated a soluble platinum complex which inhibited binary fission in "Escherichia coli" ("E. coli") bacteria. Although bacterial **cell** growth continued, cell division was arrested, the bacteria growing as filaments up to 300 times their normal length. The octahedral Pt(IV) complex "cis"-[PtCl(NH)], but not the "trans" isomer, was fo...
333. ...ered that electrolysis of platinum electrodes generated a soluble platinum complex which inhibited binary fission in "Escherichia coli" ("E. coli") bacteria. Although bacterial cell growth continued, **cell** division was arrested, the bacteria growing as filaments up to 300 times their normal length. The octahedral Pt(IV) complex "cis"-[PtCl(NH)], but not the "trans" isomer, was found to be effective at...
334. ...s finding led to the observation that "cis"-[PtCl(NH)] was indeed highly effective at regressing the mass of sarcomas in rats. Confirmation of this discovery, and extension of testing to other tumour **cell** lines launched the medicinal applications of cisplatin. Cisplatin was approved for use in testicular and ovarian cancers by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on 19 December 1978. and in the UK (a...
335. ...these studies. The Committee for Advanced Therapies (CAT) was established in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1394/2007 on advanced-therapy medicinal products (ATMPs) such as gene therapy, somatic **cell** therapy and tissue engineered products. It assesses the quality, safety and efficacy of ATMPs, and follows scientific developments in the field. A seventh committee, the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assess...
336. ...d other immune dysfunctions, and viral diseases, and for veterinary medicines for use for growth or yield enhancers. It is also compulsory for advanced-therapy medicines such as gene-therapy, somatic **cell**-therapy or tissue-engineered medicines and for orphan medicines (for rare diseases). The centralised procedure is also open to products that bring a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical i...
337. ...sius-Mossotti function and contains all the frequency dependence of the DEP force. Where the particle consists of nested spheres – the most common example of which is the approximation of a spherical **cell** composed of an inner part (the cytoplasm) surrounded by an outer layer (the cell membrane) – then this can be represented by nested expressions for the shells and the way in which they interact, allo...
338. .... Where the particle consists of nested spheres – the most common example of which is the approximation of a spherical cell composed of an inner part (the cytoplasm) surrounded by an outer layer (the **cell** membrane) – then this can be represented by nested expressions for the shells and the way in which they interact, allowing the properties to be elucidated where there are sufficient parameters relate...
339. ...x internal structure and are heterogeneous. A multi-shell model in a low conducting medium can be used to obtain information of the membrane conductivity and the permittivity of the cytoplasm.  For a **cell** with a shell surrounding a homogeneous core with its surrounding medium considered as a layer, as seen in Figure 2, the overall dielectric response is obtained from a combination of the properties of...
340. ...seen in Figure 2, the overall dielectric response is obtained from a combination of the properties of the shell and core. where 1 is the core (in cellular terms, the cytoplasm), 2 is the shell (in a **cell**, the membrane). r1 is the radius from the centre of the sphere to the inside of the shell, and r2 is the radius from the centre of the sphere to the outside of the shell. Dielectrophoresis can be use...
341. ...tside of the shell. Dielectrophoresis can be used to manipulate, transport, separate and sort different types of particles. DEP is being applied in fields such as medical diagnostics, drug discovery, **cell** therapeutics, and particle filtration. DEP has been also used in conjunction with semiconductor chip technology for the development of DEP array technology for the simultaneous management of thousand...
342. ...semiconductor chip technology for the development of DEP array technology for the simultaneous management of thousands of cells in microfluidic devices. Single microelectrodes on the floor of a flow **cell** are managed by a CMOS chip to form thousands of dielectrophoretic "cages", each capable of capturing and moving one single cell under control of routing software. As biological cells have dielectric...
343. ...in microfluidic devices. Single microelectrodes on the floor of a flow cell are managed by a CMOS chip to form thousands of dielectrophoretic "cages", each capable of capturing and moving one single **cell** under control of routing software. As biological cells have dielectric properties, dielectrophoresis has many biological and medical applications. Instruments capable of separating cancer cells from...
344. ...capable of separating cancer cells from healthy cells have been made as well as isolating single cells from forensic mixed samples. Platelets have been separated from whole blood with a DEP-activated **cell** sorter. DEP has made it possible to characterize and manipulate biological particles like blood cells, stem cells, neurons, pancreatic β cells, DNA, chromosomes, proteins and viruses. DEP can be used...
345. ...C field applied. DEP has been applied for the separation of live and dead cells, with the remaining live cells still viable after separation or to force contact between selected single cells to study **cell**-cell interaction. DEP has been used to separate strains of bacteria and viruses. DEP can also be used to detect apoptosis soon after drug induction measuring the changes in electrophysiological prope...
346. ...ld applied. DEP has been applied for the separation of live and dead cells, with the remaining live cells still viable after separation or to force contact between selected single cells to study cell-**cell** interaction. DEP has been used to separate strains of bacteria and viruses. DEP can also be used to detect apoptosis soon after drug induction measuring the changes in electrophysiological properties...
347. .... This approach offers many advantages over conventional, photolithography-based devices but reducing cost, increasing the amount of sample which can be analysed simultaneously, and the simplicity of **cell** motion reduced to one dimension (where cells can only move radially towards or away from the centre of the well). Devices manufactured to use the DEP-well principle are marketed under the DEPtech bra...
348. ...ithin memory foam. Smaller pores lead to higher internal surface area and reduced air flow, increasing the adhesion and pneumatic effects. Thus the foam's properties can be controlled by changing its **cell** structure and porosity. Its glass transition temperature can also be modulated by using additives in the foam's material. Memory foam's mechanical properties can affect the comfort of mattresses prod...
349. ...terial. Memory foam's mechanical properties can affect the comfort of mattresses produced with it. There is also a trade-off between comfort and durability. Certain memory foams may have a more rigid **cell** structure, leading to a weaker distribution of weight, but better recovery of the original structure, leading to improved cyclability and durability. Denser cell structure can also resist the penetra...
350. ...in memory foams may have a more rigid cell structure, leading to a weaker distribution of weight, but better recovery of the original structure, leading to improved cyclability and durability. Denser **cell** structure can also resist the penetration of water vapor, leading to reduced weathering and better durability and overall appearance. Memory foam was developed in 1966 under a contract by NASA's Ames...
351. ...rcraft cushions. The temperature-sensitive memory foam was initially referred to as "slow spring back foam"; most called it "temper foam". Created by feeding gas into a polymer matrix, it had an open-**cell** solid structure that matched pressure against it, yet slowly returned to its original shape. Later commercialisation of the foam included use in medical equipment such as X-ray table pads, and sports...
352. ...ing for people suffering long-term pain or postural problems. Heat retention can be a disadvantage when used in mattresses and pillows, so in second-generation memory foam, companies began using open **cell** structure to improve breathability. In 2006, the third generation of memory foam was introduced. Gel visco or gel memory foam consists of gel particles fused with visco foam to reduce trapped body he...
353. ...IFD ratings for memory foams range between super soft (IFD 10) and semi-rigid (IFD 12). Most memory foam mattresses are firm (IFD 12 to IFD 16). Second and third generation memory foams have an open-**cell** structure that reacts to body heat and weight by molding to the sleeper's body, helping relieve pressure points, preventing pressure sores, etc. Manufacturers claim that this may help relieve pressur...
354. ...lower risks of pulmonary complications for regular cannabis smokers when compared with those of tobacco. A 2015 review found an association between cannabis use and the development of testicular germ **cell** tumors (TGCTs), particularly non-seminoma TGCTs. Another 2015 meta-analysis found no association between lifetime cannabis use and risk of head or neck cancer. Combustion products are not present whe...
355. ...d a specific eye disease. For cancer, it is given by slow injection into a vein (intravenous) and used for colon cancer, lung cancer, ovarian cancer, glioblastoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, and renal-**cell** carcinoma. In many of these diseases it is used as a first-line therapy. For age-related macular degeneration it is given by injection into the eye (intravitreal). Common side effects when used for c...
356. ...for treatment of adults with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. In 2006, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved bevacizumab for use in first-line advanced nonsquamous non-small **cell** lung cancer in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel chemotherapy. The approval was based on the pivotal study E4599 (conducted by the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group), which demonstrated a two-...
357. ...in E4599 demonstrated a four-month median survival benefit with bevacizumab for people with adenocarcinoma (Sandler, et al. JTO 2010); adenocarcinoma represents approximately 85% of all non-squamous **cell** carcinomas of the lung. A subsequent European clinical trial, AVAiL, was first reported in 2009 and confirmed the significant improvement in progression-free survival shown in E4599 (Reck, et al. Ann...
358. ...n follow up analysis. In the EU, bevacizumab, in addition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small **cell** lung cancer other than predominantly squamous cell histology. Bevacizumab, in combination with erlotinib, is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, metastatic or rec...
359. ...dition to platinum-based chemotherapy, is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer other than predominantly squamous **cell** histology. Bevacizumab, in combination with erlotinib, is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer with...
360. ...inantly squamous cell histology. Bevacizumab, in combination with erlotinib, is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with unresectable advanced, metastatic or recurrent non-squamous non-small **cell** lung cancer with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) activating mutations. In December 2010, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) notified its intention to remove the breast cancer indicatio...
361. ...not considered appropriate. In certain kidney cancers, bevacizumab improves the progression free survival time but not survival time. In 2009, the FDA approved bevacizumab for use in metastatic renal **cell** cancer (a form of kidney cancer). following earlier reports of activity EU approval was granted in 2007. In the EU, bevacizumab in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first-line trea...
362. ...eports of activity EU approval was granted in 2007. In the EU, bevacizumab in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with advanced and/or metastatic renal **cell** cancer. Bevacizumab slows tumor growth but does not affect overall survival in people with glioblastoma. The FDA granted accelerated approval for the treatment of recurrent glioblastoma multiforme in...
363. ...othelial growth factor A (VEGF-A). VEGF-A is a growth factor protein that stimulates angiogenesis in a variety of diseases, especially in cancer. By binding VEGF-A, bevacizumab should act outside the **cell**, but in some cases (cervical and breast cancer) it is taken up by cells through constitutive endocytosis. It also is taken up by retinal photoreceptor cells after intravitreal injection. Bevacizumab...
364. ...a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Alymsys, intended for the treatment of carcinoma of the colon or rectum, breast cancer, non-small **cell** lung cancer, renal cell cancer, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer, and carcinoma of the cervix. Alymsys was approved for medical use in the European Union in March 2021....
365. ...ommending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Alymsys, intended for the treatment of carcinoma of the colon or rectum, breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, renal **cell** cancer, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer, and carcinoma of the cervix. Alymsys was approved for medical use in the European Union in March 2021. In January 2021, Onbevz...
366. ...d a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Avzivi, intended for the treatment of carcinoma of the colon or rectum, breast cancer, non-small **cell** lung cancer, renal cell cancer, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer and carcinoma of the cervix. The applicant for this medicinal product is FGK Representative Service Gmb...
367. ...commending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Avzivi, intended for the treatment of carcinoma of the colon or rectum, breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, renal **cell** cancer, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer and carcinoma of the cervix. The applicant for this medicinal product is FGK Representative Service GmbH. Avzivi was approved f...
368. ...ntactic foams have also been investigated as a potential lightweight structural composite material. These materials include glass microspheres dispersed in a "cement" paste matrix to achieve a closed **cell** foam structure, instead of a metallic or a polymeric matrix. Cementitious syntactic foams have also been tested for their mechanical performance under high strain rate loading conditions to evaluate...
369. ...tes how much of a particular inhibitory substance (e.g. drug) is needed to inhibit, "in vitro", a given biological process or biological component by 50%. The biological component could be an enzyme, **cell**, cell receptor or microbe. IC values are typically expressed as molar concentration. IC is commonly used as a measure of antagonist drug potency in pharmacological research. IC is comparable to other...
370. ...w much of a particular inhibitory substance (e.g. drug) is needed to inhibit, "in vitro", a given biological process or biological component by 50%. The biological component could be an enzyme, cell, **cell** receptor or microbe. IC values are typically expressed as molar concentration. IC is commonly used as a measure of antagonist drug potency in pharmacological research. IC is comparable to other measu...
371. ...e processes. Neurons are known as excitable cells because on its surface membrane there are an abundance of proteins known as ion-channels that allow small charged particles to pass in and out of the **cell**. The structure of the neuron allows chemical information to be received by its dendrites, propagated through the perikaryon (cell body) and down its axon, and eventually passing on to other neurons t...
372. ...channels that allow small charged particles to pass in and out of the cell. The structure of the neuron allows chemical information to be received by its dendrites, propagated through the perikaryon (**cell** body) and down its axon, and eventually passing on to other neurons through its axon terminal. These voltage-gated ion channels allow for rapid depolarization throughout the cell. This depolarization...
373. ...ough the perikaryon (cell body) and down its axon, and eventually passing on to other neurons through its axon terminal. These voltage-gated ion channels allow for rapid depolarization throughout the **cell**. This depolarization, if it reaches a certain threshold, will cause an action potential. Once the action potential reaches the axon terminal, it will cause an influx of calcium ions into the cell. Th...
374. ...the cell. This depolarization, if it reaches a certain threshold, will cause an action potential. Once the action potential reaches the axon terminal, it will cause an influx of calcium ions into the **cell**. The calcium ions will then cause vesicles, small packets filled with neurotransmitters, to bind to the cell membrane and release its contents into the synapse. This cell is known as the pre-synaptic...
375. ...tion potential reaches the axon terminal, it will cause an influx of calcium ions into the cell. The calcium ions will then cause vesicles, small packets filled with neurotransmitters, to bind to the **cell** membrane and release its contents into the synapse. This cell is known as the pre-synaptic neuron, and the cell that interacts with the neurotransmitters released is known as the post-synaptic neuron...
376. ...lux of calcium ions into the cell. The calcium ions will then cause vesicles, small packets filled with neurotransmitters, to bind to the cell membrane and release its contents into the synapse. This **cell** is known as the pre-synaptic neuron, and the cell that interacts with the neurotransmitters released is known as the post-synaptic neuron. Once the neurotransmitter is released into the synapse, it c...
377. ...s will then cause vesicles, small packets filled with neurotransmitters, to bind to the cell membrane and release its contents into the synapse. This cell is known as the pre-synaptic neuron, and the **cell** that interacts with the neurotransmitters released is known as the post-synaptic neuron. Once the neurotransmitter is released into the synapse, it can either bind to receptors on the post-synaptic c...
378. ...l that interacts with the neurotransmitters released is known as the post-synaptic neuron. Once the neurotransmitter is released into the synapse, it can either bind to receptors on the post-synaptic **cell**, the pre-synaptic cell can re-uptake it and save it for later transmission, or it can be broken down by enzymes in the synapse specific to that certain neurotransmitter. These three different actions...
379. ...he neurotransmitters released is known as the post-synaptic neuron. Once the neurotransmitter is released into the synapse, it can either bind to receptors on the post-synaptic cell, the pre-synaptic **cell** can re-uptake it and save it for later transmission, or it can be broken down by enzymes in the synapse specific to that certain neurotransmitter. These three different actions are major areas where...
380. ...types of transduction from chemical signal to electrical signal. Once the neurotransmitter binds to the receptor, it will cause a conformational change that will allow ions to directly flow into the **cell**. The second types are known as G-protein-coupled receptors or GPCRs. These are much slower than LGICs due to an increase in the amount of biochemical reactions that must take place intracellularly. O...
381. ...a neuron to induce inhibitory effects of action potentials. The GABA neurotransmitter mediates the fast synaptic inhibition in the central nervous system. When GABA is released from its pre-synaptic **cell**, it will bind to a receptor (most likely the GABA receptor) that causes the post-synaptic cell to hyperpolarize (stay below its action potential threshold). This will counteract the effect of any exc...
382. ...the fast synaptic inhibition in the central nervous system. When GABA is released from its pre-synaptic cell, it will bind to a receptor (most likely the GABA receptor) that causes the post-synaptic **cell** to hyperpolarize (stay below its action potential threshold). This will counteract the effect of any excitatory manipulation from other neurotransmitter/receptor interactions. This GABA receptor cont...
383. ...ansmission by binding to five specific GPCRs. These five receptor proteins are separated into two classes due to whether the response elicits an excitatory or inhibitory response on the post-synaptic **cell**. There are many types of drugs, legal and illegal, that affect dopamine and its interactions in the brain. With Parkinson's disease, a disease that decreases the amount of dopamine in the brain, the...
384. ...isorders like that of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) can be treated with drugs like methylphenidate (also known as Ritalin), which block the re-uptake of dopamine by the pre-synaptic **cell**, thereby providing an increase of dopamine left in the synaptic gap. This increase in synaptic dopamine will increase binding to receptors of the post-synaptic cell. This same mechanism is also used...
385. ...ke of dopamine by the pre-synaptic cell, thereby providing an increase of dopamine left in the synaptic gap. This increase in synaptic dopamine will increase binding to receptors of the post-synaptic **cell**. This same mechanism is also used by other illegal and more potent stimulant drugs such as cocaine. The neurotransmitter serotonin has the ability to mediate synaptic transmission through either GPCR...
386. ...better treatment for Parkinson's disease rather than other dopamine agonists. Some believe that the long-term use of L-dopa will compromise neuroprotection and, thus, eventually lead to dopaminergic **cell** death. Though there has been no proof, in-vivo or in-vitro, some still believe that the long-term use of dopamine agonists is better for the patient. While there are a variety of hypotheses that have...
387. ...oups have continued with open-field trials of GM crops that produce drugs. In 2006 Dow AgroSciences received USDA approval to market a vaccine for poultry against Newcastle disease, produced in plant **cell** culture – the first plant-produced vaccine approved in the U.S. Milk is presently the most mature system to produce recombinant proteins from transgenic organisms. Blood, egg white, seminal plasma, a...
388. ...ng a minor crop such as safflower or tobacco avoids the greater political pressures and risk to the food supply involved with using staple crops such as beans or rice. Expression of proteins in plant **cell** or hairy root cultures also minimizes risk of gene transfer, but at a higher cost of production. Sterile hybrids may also be used for the bioconfinement of transgenic plants, although stable lines ca...
389. ...not a satisfactory option on several grounds. Many proteins of interest are too complex to be made by microbial systems or by protein synthesis. These proteins are currently being produced in animal **cell** cultures, but the resulting product is often prohibitively expensive for many patients. For these reasons, science has been exploring other options for producing proteins of therapeutic value. These...
390. ...antagonist, because it can be a little of both, depending on its preferred signal transduction pathways. Thus, such ligands must instead be classified on the basis of their individual effects in the **cell**, instead of being either an agonist or antagonist to a receptor. These observations were made in a number of different expression systems, and therefore functional selectivity is not just an epipheno...
391. ...the action of calcium on tissues) by allosteric activation of the calcium-sensing receptor that is expressed in various human organ tissues. The calcium-sensing receptors on the surface of the chief **cell** of the parathyroid gland is the principal negative regulator of parathyroid hormone secretion. Cinacalcet increases the sensitivity of calcium receptors on parathyroid cells to reduce parathyroid hor...
392. ..., Roy Hertz and Min Chiu Li then demonstrated complete remission in women with choriocarcinoma and chorioadenoma in 1956, discovering that methotrexate alone could cure choriocarcinoma (1958), a germ-**cell** malignancy that originates in trophoblastic cells of the placenta. In 1960 Wright et al. produced remissions in mycosis fungoides. Joseph Burchenal, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New Y...
393. ...help, started his own methotrexate study and found the same effects. He then decided to try to develop anti-metabolites in the same way as Farber, by making small changes in a metabolite needed by a **cell** to divide. With the help of George Hitchings and Gertrude Elion, two pharmaceutical chemists who were working at the Burroughs Wellcome Co. in Tuckahoe, many purine analogues were tested, culminating...
394. ...proliferation of tumour cells. The antitumour effect of the vinca alkaloids (e.g. vincristine) was later shown to be due to their ability to inhibit microtubule polymerization alkaloys, and therefore **cell** division. The NCI, headed by Dr. John R. Heller Jr., lobbied the United States Congress for financial support for second-generation chemotherapy research. In response, Congress created a Cancer Chemo...
395. ...to promote drug discovery for cancer – unlike now, most pharmaceutical companies were not yet interested in developing anticancer drugs. The CCNSC developed the methodologies and crucial tools (like **cell** lines and animal models) for chemotherapeutic development. In 1965, a major breakthrough in cancer therapy occurred. James F. Holland, Emil Freireich, and Emil Frei hypothesized that cancer chemother...
396. ...product of the platinum electrode rather than the electrical field. This accidental discovery, however, soon initiated a series of investigations and studies into the effects of platinum compounds on **cell** division, culminating in the synthesis of cisplatin. This drug was pivotal in the cure of testicular cancer. Subsequently, Eve Wiltshaw and others at the Institute of Cancer Research in the United Ki...
397. ...chemotherapy. Several examples are noteworthy. Many chemotherapeutic agents cause profound suppression of the bone marrow. This is reversible, but takes time to recover. Support with platelet and red-**cell** transfusions as well as broad-spectrum antibiotics in case of infection during this period is crucial to allow the patient to recover. Several practical factors are also worth mentioning. Most of the...
398. ...n and survival. In a particular cancer, such a network may be radically altered, due to a chance somatic mutation. Targeted therapy inhibits the metabolic pathway that underlies that type of cancer's **cell** division. The classic example of targeted development is imatinib mesylate (Gleevec), a small molecule which inhibits a signaling molecule kinase. The genetic abnormality causing chronic myelogenous...
399. ...of the H2 receptor stimulates gastric secretion. It is this phenomenon that gives rise to drug specificity. Of course, drugs do not only act on receptors: they also act on ion channels, enzymes, and **cell** transporter proteins. These hydrogen bonds are so powerful than the ionic bonds. When talking about the shape of molecules, biochemists are mainly concerned with the three-dimensional conformation of...
400. ...s include abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, weakness, and rashes. Other severe side effects include blood clotting problems, allergic reactions, heart problems such as cardiomyopathy, and low blood **cell** counts. Use during pregnancy may result in harm to the fetus. Capecitabine, inside the body, is converted to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) through which it acts. It belongs to the class of medications known...
401. ...s, especially heavy metals, that occurs even in low concentrations. This effect is attributed to the antibacterial behavior of metal ions, which are absorbed by bacteria upon contact and damage their **cell** membranes. In modern times, the effect was observed by Carl Nägeli, although he did not identify the cause. Brass doorknobs, brass handrails, and silverware both exhibit this effect to an extent. The...
402. ...de of action to which microorganisms may develop resistance. Such resistance may be transmitted by plasmids. Aluminium has been found to compete with iron and magnesium and bind to DNA, membranes, or **cell** walls, leading to its toxic effect on microbes, such as cyanobacteria, soil bacteria and mycorrhizal fungi. Aluminium triacetate (Burow's solution) is used as an astringent mild antiseptic. Orthoeste...
403. ...such as a protein, with a complex structure of components (macromolecule definition). Protein-ligand binding typically changes the structure of the target protein, thereby changing its function in a **cell**. The distinction between the two Hill equations is whether they measure "occupancy" or "response". The Hill equation reflects the occupancy of macromolecules: the fraction that is saturated or bound...
404. ...hat produces a 50% maximal response. Dissociation constants (in the previous section) relate to ligand binding, while formula_24 reflects tissue response. This form of the equation can reflect tissue/**cell**/population responses to drugs and can be used to generate dose response curves. The relationship between formula_3 and EC50 may be quite complex as a biological response will be the sum of myriad fac...
405. ...on that occurs when tolerance to the effects of a certain drug produces tolerance to another drug. It often happens between two drugs with similar functions or effects—for example, acting on the same **cell** receptor or affecting the transmission of certain neurotransmitters. Cross-tolerance has been observed with pharmaceutical drugs such as anti-anxiety agents and illicit substances, and sometimes the...
406. ...blocks" If enough of the block copolymer molecules that make up a polymersome are cross-linked, the polymersome can be made into a transportable powder. Polymersomes can be used to make an artificial **cell** if hemoglobin and other components are added. The first artificial cell was made by Thomas Chang. Assay sensitivity Assay sensitivity is a property of a clinical trial defined as the ability of a tri...
407. ...rsome are cross-linked, the polymersome can be made into a transportable powder. Polymersomes can be used to make an artificial cell if hemoglobin and other components are added. The first artificial **cell** was made by Thomas Chang. Assay sensitivity Assay sensitivity is a property of a clinical trial defined as the ability of a trial to distinguish an effective treatment from a less effective or ineffe...
408. ...als science, a metal foam is a material or structure consisting of a solid metal (frequently aluminium) with gas-filled pores comprising a large portion of the volume. The pores can be sealed (closed-**cell** foam) or interconnected (open-cell foam). The defining characteristic of metal foams is a high porosity: typically only 5–25% of the volume is the base metal. The strength of the material is due to t...
409. ...rial or structure consisting of a solid metal (frequently aluminium) with gas-filled pores comprising a large portion of the volume. The pores can be sealed (closed-cell foam) or interconnected (open-**cell** foam). The defining characteristic of metal foams is a high porosity: typically only 5–25% of the volume is the base metal. The strength of the material is due to the square–cube law. Metal foams typ...
410. ...ption, flow diffusion, scrubbers, flame arrestors, and lightweight optics. The high cost of the material generally limits its use to advanced technology, aerospace, and manufacturing. Fine-scale open-**cell** foams, with cells smaller than can be seen unaided, are used as high-temperature filters in the chemical industry. Metal foams are used in compact heat exchangers to increase heat transfer at the cos...
411. ...tals such as osmium and palladium hydride are metaphorically called "metal sponges", but this term is in reference to their property of binding to hydrogen, rather than the physical structure. Closed-**cell** metal foam was first reported in 1926 by Meller in a French patent where foaming of light metals, either by inert gas injection or by blowing agent, was suggested. Two patents on sponge-like metal we...
412. ...by inert gas injection or by blowing agent, was suggested. Two patents on sponge-like metal were issued to Benjamin Sosnik in 1948 and 1951 who applied mercury vapor to blow liquid aluminium. Closed-**cell** metal foams were developed in 1956 by John C. Elliott at Bjorksten Research Laboratories. Although the first prototypes were available in the 1950s, commercial production began in the 1990s by Shinko...
413. ...1956 by John C. Elliott at Bjorksten Research Laboratories. Although the first prototypes were available in the 1950s, commercial production began in the 1990s by Shinko Wire company in Japan. Closed-**cell** metal foams are primarily used as an impact-absorbing material, similarly to the polymer foams in a bicycle helmet but for higher impact loads. Unlike many polymer foams, metal foams remain deformed...
414. ...n identical non-porous alloy; commonly those of aluminium) and stiff and are frequently proposed as a lightweight structural material. However, they have not been widely used for this purpose. Closed-**cell** foams retain the fire resistance and recycling potential of other metal foams, but add the property of flotation in water. A foam is said to be stochastic when the porosity distribution is random. Mo...
415. ...tomized for each application. This manufacturing method allows for "perfect" foam, so-called because it satisfies Plateau's laws and has conducting pores of the shape of a truncated octahedron Kelvin **cell** (body-centered cubic structure). Hybrid metal foams typically have a thin film on the underlying porous substrate. Coating metal foams with a different material has been shown to improve the mechanic...
416. ...ble surface functionalization for catalytic flow processes. To fabricate hybrid metal foams, thin films are deposited onto a foam substrate with electrodeposition at room temperature. A two-electrode **cell** setup in a Watt's bath can be used. Recent studies have demonstrated issues with the uniformity of the thin-film due to the complex geometry of metal foams. Issues with uniformity have been addressed...
417. ...t polymers and metals in foam ligands can be explored in order to get an improved understanding of their sensitivity to external forces. This would help improve resistance to compressive forces. Open **cell** foams are manufactured by foundry or powder metallurgy. In the powder method, "space holders" are used; as their name suggests, they occupy the pore spaces and channels. In casting processes, foam is...
418. ...essing, extrusion (direct or conform) and flat rolling. Composite metal foam is made from a combination of homogeneous hollow metal spheres with a metallic matrix surrounding the spheres. This closed-**cell** metal foam isolates the pockets of air within and can be made out of nearly any metal, alloy, or combination. The sphere sizes can be varied and fine-tuned per application. The mixture of air-filled...
419. ...ic for treating diarrhea. Bausch Health Companies (Salix Pharmaceuticals) is supporting an investigator-initiated Phase 2 study of Relistor. The drug is intended for patients with resectable squamous **cell** carcinoma of the head and neck. In July 2023, 404 Media reported that Bausch Health had been hacked and 1.6 million registration numbers that are issued by the United States' Drug Enforcement Adminis...
420. ...ed trace elements) compose the remainder. Sulfur is contained in the amino acids cysteine and methionine. Phosphorus is contained in phospholipids, a class of lipids that are a major component of all **cell** membranes, as they can form lipid bilayers, which keep ions, proteins, and other molecules where they are needed for cell function, and prevent them from diffusing into areas where they should not be...
421. ...ntained in phospholipids, a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes, as they can form lipid bilayers, which keep ions, proteins, and other molecules where they are needed for **cell** function, and prevent them from diffusing into areas where they should not be. Phosphate groups are also an essential component of the backbone of nucleic acids (general name for DNA & RNA) and are r...
422. ...uld not be. Phosphate groups are also an essential component of the backbone of nucleic acids (general name for DNA & RNA) and are required to form ATP – the main molecule used as energy powering the **cell** in all living creatures. Carbonaceous asteroids are rich in CHON elements. These asteroids are the most common type and frequently collide with Earth as meteorites. Such collisions were especially co...
423. ...c leukemia; childhood neuroblastoma; ovarian cancer; and mammary adenocarcinoma. In the United States, melphalan is used as a high-dose conditioning treatment prior to hematopoietic progenitor (stem) **cell** transplantation in people with multiple myeloma. In the European Union, it is indicated, in combination with other cytotoxic medicinal products, as reduced intensity conditioning treatment prior to a...
424. ...h multiple myeloma. In the European Union, it is indicated, in combination with other cytotoxic medicinal products, as reduced intensity conditioning treatment prior to allogeneic haematopoietic stem **cell** transplantation in malignant haematological diseases in adults. In August 2023, the US Food and Drug Administration approved melphalan (Hepzato) as a liver-directed treatment for adults with uveal me...
425. ...y synthesized pharmaceuticals, they include vaccines, whole blood, blood components, allergenics, somatic cells, gene therapies, tissues, recombinant therapeutic protein, and living medicines used in **cell** therapy. Biologics can be composed of sugars, proteins, nucleic acids, or complex combinations of these substances, or may be living cells or tissues. They (or their precursors or components) are iso...
426. ...cines Agency uses the term "advanced therapy medicinal products" (ATMPs) for medicines for human use that are "based on genes, cells, or tissue engineering", including gene therapy medicines, somatic-**cell** therapy medicines, tissue-engineered medicines, and combinations thereof. Within EMA contexts, the term "advanced therapies" refers specifically to ATMPs, although that term is rather nonspecific out...
427. ...o the ease with which spermatozoa and egg cells can be used for fertility treatment. Biopharmaceuticals may be produced from microbial cells (e.g., recombinant "E. coli" or yeast cultures), mammalian **cell** lines (see Cell culture) and plant cell cultures (see Plant tissue culture) and moss plants in bioreactors of various configurations, including photo-bioreactors. Important issues of concern are cost...
428. ...which spermatozoa and egg cells can be used for fertility treatment. Biopharmaceuticals may be produced from microbial cells (e.g., recombinant "E. coli" or yeast cultures), mammalian cell lines (see **Cell** culture) and plant cell cultures (see Plant tissue culture) and moss plants in bioreactors of various configurations, including photo-bioreactors. Important issues of concern are cost of production (...
429. ...g cells can be used for fertility treatment. Biopharmaceuticals may be produced from microbial cells (e.g., recombinant "E. coli" or yeast cultures), mammalian cell lines (see Cell culture) and plant **cell** cultures (see Plant tissue culture) and moss plants in bioreactors of various configurations, including photo-bioreactors. Important issues of concern are cost of production (low-volume, high-purity...
430. ...ion, to avoid damage to the structure that results due to the stresses of the capillary effect of the aqueous solution. One method of introducing pores in silicon is through the use of an anodization **cell**. A possible anodization cell is made of Teflon and employs a platinum cathode and a crystalline Si wafer anode immersed in hydrogen fluoride (HF) electrolyte. Recently, inert diamond cathodes were us...
431. ...tructure that results due to the stresses of the capillary effect of the aqueous solution. One method of introducing pores in silicon is through the use of an anodization cell. A possible anodization **cell** is made of Teflon and employs a platinum cathode and a crystalline Si wafer anode immersed in hydrogen fluoride (HF) electrolyte. Recently, inert diamond cathodes were used to avoid metallic impuriti...
432. ...impurities in the electrolyte and inert diamond anodes form an improved electrical back plate contact to the silicon wafers. Corrosion of the anode is produced by running electric current through the **cell**. It is noted that etching with constant DC is usually implemented to ensure steady tip-concentration of HF resulting in a more homogeneous porous layer, while pulsed current is more appropriate for t...
433. ...he surface of porous silicon may be modified to exhibit different properties. Often, freshly etched porous silicon may be unstable due to the rate of its oxidation by the atmosphere or unsuitable for **cell** attachment purposes. Therefore, it can be surface modified to improve stability and cell attachment Following the formation of porous silicon, its surface is covered with covalently bonded hydrogen....
434. ...hly etched porous silicon may be unstable due to the rate of its oxidation by the atmosphere or unsuitable for cell attachment purposes. Therefore, it can be surface modified to improve stability and **cell** attachment Following the formation of porous silicon, its surface is covered with covalently bonded hydrogen. Although the hydrogen coated surface is sufficiently stable when exposed to inert atmosph...
435. ...id (HSiO), which causes no harm to the body. This has opened potential applications in medicine such as a framework of the growth of bone. Surface modification can also affect properties that promote **cell** adhesion. One particular research in 2005 studied the mammalian cell adhesion on the modified surfaces of porous silicon. The research used rat PC12 cells and Human Lens Epithelial (HLE) cells cultur...
436. ...l applications in medicine such as a framework of the growth of bone. Surface modification can also affect properties that promote cell adhesion. One particular research in 2005 studied the mammalian **cell** adhesion on the modified surfaces of porous silicon. The research used rat PC12 cells and Human Lens Epithelial (HLE) cells cultured for four hours on the surface modified porous silicon. Cells were...
437. ...rous silicon. Cells were then stained with vital dye FDA and observed under fluorescence microscopy. The research concluded that "amino silanisation and coating the pSi surface with collagen enhanced **cell** attachment and spreading". Porous silicon studies conducted in 1995 showed that the behaviour of porous silicon can be altered in between "bio-inert", "bioactive" and "resorbable" by varying the poro...
438. ...rat hippocampal cells with porous silicon found that B50 cells have clear preference for adhesion to porous silicon over untreated surface. The study indicated that porous silicon can be suitable for **cell** culturing purposes and can be used to control cell growth pattern. Another positive attribute of porous silicon is the degradation of porous silicon into monomeric silicic acid (SiOH4). Silicic acid...
439. ...t B50 cells have clear preference for adhesion to porous silicon over untreated surface. The study indicated that porous silicon can be suitable for cell culturing purposes and can be used to control **cell** growth pattern. Another positive attribute of porous silicon is the degradation of porous silicon into monomeric silicic acid (SiOH4). Silicic acid is reputed to be the most natural form of element i...
440. ...ial enzymes, such as lipase, invertase and rennet, are made by fermentation with genetically modified microbes. In some cases, production of biomass itself is the objective, as is the case for single-**cell** proteins, baker's yeast, and starter cultures for lactic acid bacteria used in cheesemaking. In general, fermentations can be divided into four types: These types are not necessarily disjoined from e...
441. ...rstanding the differences in approach. The organisms used are typically microorganisms, particularly bacteria, algae, and fungi, such as yeasts and molds, but industrial fermentation may also involve **cell** cultures from plants and animals, such as CHO cells and insect cells. Special considerations are required for the specific organisms used in the fermentation, such as the dissolved oxygen level, nutr...
442. ...ion. Overall OFAT is a major advantage over other optimization methods because of its simplicity. Microbial cells or biomass is sometimes the intended product of fermentation. Examples include single **cell** protein, bakers yeast, lactobacillus, E. coli, and others. In the case of single-cell protein, algae is grown in large open ponds which allow photosynthesis to occur. If the biomass is to be used for...
443. ...simplicity. Microbial cells or biomass is sometimes the intended product of fermentation. Examples include single cell protein, bakers yeast, lactobacillus, E. coli, and others. In the case of single-**cell** protein, algae is grown in large open ponds which allow photosynthesis to occur. If the biomass is to be used for inoculation of other fermentations, care must be taken to prevent mutations from occu...
444. ...some " Micrococcus " species, and some " Corynebacterium " species produce lysine, threonine, tryptophan and other amino acids. All of these compounds are produced during the normal "business" of the **cell** and released into the environment. There is therefore no need to rupture the cells for product recovery. Secondary metabolites are compounds made in the stationary phase; penicillin, for instance, pr...
445. ...abolites are not produced in the presence of glucose or other carbon sources which would encourage growth, and like primary metabolites are released into the surrounding medium without rupture of the **cell** membrane. In the early days of the biotechnology industry, most biopharmaceutical products were made in "E. coli"; by 2004 more biopharmaceuticals were manufactured in eukaryotic cells, such as CHO c...
446. ...pharmaceutical products were made in "E. coli"; by 2004 more biopharmaceuticals were manufactured in eukaryotic cells, such as CHO cells, than in microbes, but used similar bioreactor systems. Insect **cell** culture systems came into use in the 2000s as well. Of primary interest among the intracellular components are microbial enzymes: catalase, amylase, protease, pectinase, cellulase, hemicellulase, lip...
447. ...oach to manufacturing specific functional products which intends to minimise the production of unwanted by-products through the application of synthetic biology, particularly by generating synthetic "**cell** factories" with engineered genomes and metabolic pathways optimised to produce the desired compounds as efficiently as possible with the available resources. Precision fermentation of genetically mod...
448. ...to produce the desired compounds as efficiently as possible with the available resources. Precision fermentation of genetically modified microorganisms may be used to manufacture proteins needed for **cell** culture media, providing for serum-free cell culture media in the manufacturing process of cultured meat. A 2021 publication showed that photovoltaic-driven microbial protein production could use 10...
449. ...tly as possible with the available resources. Precision fermentation of genetically modified microorganisms may be used to manufacture proteins needed for cell culture media, providing for serum-free **cell** culture media in the manufacturing process of cultured meat. A 2021 publication showed that photovoltaic-driven microbial protein production could use 10 times less land for an equivalent amount of p...
450. ...ketable quantities, while analytical bioseparation refers to purification for the sole purpose of measuring a component or components of a mixture, and may deal with sample sizes as small as a single **cell**. A widely recognized heuristic for categorizing downstream processing operations divides them into four groups which are applied in order to bring a product from its natural state as a component of a...
451. ...y recognized heuristic for categorizing downstream processing operations divides them into four groups which are applied in order to bring a product from its natural state as a component of a tissue, **cell** or fermentation broth through progressive improvements in purity and concentration. "Removal of insolubles" is the first step and involves the capture of the product as a solute in a particulate-free...
452. ...rovements in purity and concentration. "Removal of insolubles" is the first step and involves the capture of the product as a solute in a particulate-free liquid, for example the separation of cells, **cell** debris or other particulate matter from fermentation broth containing an antibiotic. Typical operations to achieve this are filtration, centrifugation, sedimentation, precipitation, flocculation, ele...
453. ...rate) with no influence on relapse. Sakel suggested the therapy worked by "causing an intensification of the tonus of the parasympathetic end of the autonomic nervous system, by blockading the nerve **cell**, and by strengthening the anabolic force which induces the restoration of the normal function of the nerve cell and the recovery of the patient." The shock therapies in general had developed on the e...
454. ...nus of the parasympathetic end of the autonomic nervous system, by blockading the nerve cell, and by strengthening the anabolic force which induces the restoration of the normal function of the nerve **cell** and the recovery of the patient." The shock therapies in general had developed on the erroneous premise that epilepsy and schizophrenia rarely occurred in the same patient. The premise was supported...
455. ...ches to diseases or conditions are reported at a rate of almost one per week. So far as we know, everything we perceive, feel, think, know, and do are a result of neurons firing and resetting. When a **cell** in the brain fires, small chemical and electrical swings called the action potential may affect the firing of as many as a thousand other neurons in a process called neurotransmission. In this way si...
456. ...tures are: The more recent advances involve understanding at the organic molecular level; biochemical action of the endogenous ligands, enzymes, receptor proteins, etc. The critical changes affecting **cell** firing occur when the signalling neurotransmitters from one neuron, acting as ligands, bind to receptors of another neuron. Many neurotransmitter systems and receptors are well known, and research co...
457. ...n, which in principle opens up the possibility of refined intentional control over brain function. It has previously been known that ultimate control over the membrane voltage or potential of a nerve **cell**, and thus the firing of the cell, resides with the transmembrane ion channels which control the membrane currents via the ions K, Na, and Ca, and of lesser importance Mg and Cl. The concentration dif...
458. ...e possibility of refined intentional control over brain function. It has previously been known that ultimate control over the membrane voltage or potential of a nerve cell, and thus the firing of the **cell**, resides with the transmembrane ion channels which control the membrane currents via the ions K, Na, and Ca, and of lesser importance Mg and Cl. The concentration differences between the inside and o...
459. ...the transmembrane ion channels which control the membrane currents via the ions K, Na, and Ca, and of lesser importance Mg and Cl. The concentration differences between the inside and outside of the **cell** determine the membrane voltage. Precisely how these currents are controlled has become much clearer with the advances in receptor structure and G-protein coupled processes. Many receptors are found t...
460. ...ins (not necessarily the same) or "receptor subunits", each a chain of many amino acids. Transmitters typically bind at the junction between two of these proteins, on the parts that protrude from the **cell** membrane. If the receptor is of the ionotropic type, a central pore or channel in the middle of the proteins will be mechanically moved to allow certain ions to flow through, thus altering the ion co...
461. ...l be mechanically moved to allow certain ions to flow through, thus altering the ion concentration difference. If the receptor is of the metabotropic type, G-proteins will cause metabolism inside the **cell** that may eventually change other ion channels. Researchers are better understanding precisely how these changes occur based on the protein structure shapes and chemical properties. The scope of this...
462. ...elp schizophrenia, but cause a variety of dyskinesias by their action on motor cortex. Modern studies are revealing details of mechanisms of damage to the nervous system such as apoptosis (programmed **cell** death) and free-radical disruption. Phencyclidine has been found to cause cell death in striatopallidal cells and abnormal vacuolization in hippocampal and other neurons. The "hallucinogen persisting...
463. ...cortex. Modern studies are revealing details of mechanisms of damage to the nervous system such as apoptosis (programmed cell death) and free-radical disruption. Phencyclidine has been found to cause **cell** death in striatopallidal cells and abnormal vacuolization in hippocampal and other neurons. The "hallucinogen persisting perception disorder" (HPPD), also known as "post-psychedelic perception disord...
464. ...the study of a new chemical compound for potentially beneficial cognitive or behavioral effects, or the study of an old chemical compound in order to better understand its mechanism of action at the **cell** and neural circuit levels. For example, the addictive stimulant drug cocaine has long been known to act upon the reward system in the brain, increasing dopamine and norepinephrine levels and inducing...
465. ...ld not rest until she took some of the starch morphia. Busulfan Busulfan (Myleran, GlaxoSmithKline, Busulfex IV, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.) is a chemotherapy drug in use since 1959. It is a **cell** cycle non-specific alkylating antineoplastic agent, in the class of alkyl sulfonates. Its chemical designation is 1,4-butanediol dimethanesulfonate. Busulfan was approved by the US Food and Drug Admi...
466. ...c guanine N7 attacks the carbon adjacent to the mesylate leaving group. DNA crosslinking prevents DNA replication. Because the intrastrand DNA crosslinks cannot be repaired by cellular machinery, the **cell** undergoes apoptosis. The molecular recognition of ureido-cyclodextrin with busulfan was investigated. The formation of complexes was observed with electrostatic interactions between urea and the sulf...
467. ...etered dose inhaler is most commonly a bronchodilator, corticosteroid or a combination of both for treating asthma and COPD. Other medications less commonly used but also administered by MDI are mast **cell** stabilizers, such as cromoglicate or nedocromil. A metered-dose inhaler consists of three major components: the canister, which is produced in aluminum or stainless steel by means of deep drawing, wh...
468. ..., as a glucose analog, is taken up by high-glucose-using cells such as brain, brown adipocytes, kidney, and cancer cells, where phosphorylation prevents the glucose from being released again from the **cell**, once it has been absorbed. The 2-hydroxyl group (–OH) in normal glucose is needed for further glycolysis (metabolism of glucose by splitting it), but [F]FDG is missing this 2-hydroxyl. Thus, in comm...
469. ...it), but [F]FDG is missing this 2-hydroxyl. Thus, in common with its sister molecule 2-deoxy--glucose, FDG cannot be further metabolized in cells. The [F]FDG-6-phosphate formed when [F]FDG enters the **cell** cannot exit the cell before radioactive decay. As a result, the distribution of [F]FDG is a good reflection of the distribution of glucose uptake and phosphorylation by cells in the body. The fluorin...
470. ...ssing this 2-hydroxyl. Thus, in common with its sister molecule 2-deoxy--glucose, FDG cannot be further metabolized in cells. The [F]FDG-6-phosphate formed when [F]FDG enters the cell cannot exit the **cell** before radioactive decay. As a result, the distribution of [F]FDG is a good reflection of the distribution of glucose uptake and phosphorylation by cells in the body. The fluorine in [F]FDG decays ra...
471. ...combined; antibody-drug conjugates combine biologic and cytotoxic mechanisms into one targeted therapy. Another form of targeted therapy involves the use of nanoengineered enzymes to bind to a tumor **cell** such that the body's natural cell degradation process can digest the cell, effectively eliminating it from the body. Targeted cancer therapies are expected to be more effective than older forms of tr...
472. ...s combine biologic and cytotoxic mechanisms into one targeted therapy. Another form of targeted therapy involves the use of nanoengineered enzymes to bind to a tumor cell such that the body's natural **cell** degradation process can digest the cell, effectively eliminating it from the body. Targeted cancer therapies are expected to be more effective than older forms of treatments and less harmful to norma...
473. ...sms into one targeted therapy. Another form of targeted therapy involves the use of nanoengineered enzymes to bind to a tumor cell such that the body's natural cell degradation process can digest the **cell**, effectively eliminating it from the body. Targeted cancer therapies are expected to be more effective than older forms of treatments and less harmful to normal cells. Many targeted therapies are exa...
474. ...ancer, lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer, and some gynaecological cancers. Some forms of cancer fail to benefit from adjuvant therapy, however. Such cancers include renal **cell** carcinoma, and certain forms of brain cancer. Hyperthermia therapy or heat therapy is also a kind of adjuvant therapy that is sometimes given in combination with radiotherapy or chemotherapy to boost...
475. ...ment. In glioblastoma multiforme, adjuvant chemoradiotherapy is critical in the case of a completely removed tumor, as with no other therapy, recurrence occurs in 1–3 months. In early stage one small **cell** lung carcinoma, adjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine, cisplatin, paclitaxel, docetaxel, and other chemotherapeutic agents, and adjuvant radiotherapy is administered to either the lung, to prevent a...
476. ...d increased risk for second malignancy. Dose-dense chemotherapy (DDC) has recently emerged as an effective method of adjuvant chemotherapy administration. DDC uses the Gompertz curve to explain tumor **cell** growth after initial surgery removes most of the tumor mass. Cancer cells that are left over after a surgery are typically rapidly dividing cells, leaving them the most vulnerable to chemotherapy. St...
477. ...ssen the side effects of chemotherapy that can be exacerbated with more closely administered chemotherapy treatments, growth factors are typically given in conjunction with DDC to restore white blood **cell** counts. A recent 2018 meta-analysis of DDC clinical trials in early stage breast cancer patients indicated promising results in premenopausal women, but DDC has yet to become the standard of treatmen...
478. ...onpolar) properties. Such a compound is called amphiphilic or amphipathic. Amphiphilic compounds include surfactants and detergents. The phospholipid amphiphiles are the major structural component of **cell** membranes. Amphiphiles are the basis for a number of areas of research in chemistry and biochemistry, notably that of lipid polymorphism. Organic compounds containing hydrophilic groups at both ends...
479. ...examined. Several other studies looking into specific therapeutic areas or disease types suggest as low as $291 million for orphan drugs, $648 million for cancer drugs or as high as $1.8 billion for **cell** and gene therapies.  The average cost (2013 dollars) of each stage of clinical research was US$25 million for a Phase I safety study, $59 million for a Phase II randomized controlled efficacy study,...
480. ...tein chaperone. That is, it contains small molecules that enter cells and serve as a molecular scaffolding in order to cause otherwise-misfolded mutant proteins to fold and route correctly within the **cell**. Mutation of proteins often causes molecular misfolding, which results in protein misrouting within the cell. Accordingly, mutant molecules may retain proper function but end up in parts of the cell...
481. ...order to cause otherwise-misfolded mutant proteins to fold and route correctly within the cell. Mutation of proteins often causes molecular misfolding, which results in protein misrouting within the **cell**. Accordingly, mutant molecules may retain proper function but end up in parts of the cell where the function is inappropriate, or even deleterious, to cell function. Misfolded proteins are usually re...
482. ...cell. Mutation of proteins often causes molecular misfolding, which results in protein misrouting within the cell. Accordingly, mutant molecules may retain proper function but end up in parts of the **cell** where the function is inappropriate, or even deleterious, to cell function. Misfolded proteins are usually recognized by the quality-control system of the cell and retained (and often destroyed or re...
483. ...ch results in protein misrouting within the cell. Accordingly, mutant molecules may retain proper function but end up in parts of the cell where the function is inappropriate, or even deleterious, to **cell** function. Misfolded proteins are usually recognized by the quality-control system of the cell and retained (and often destroyed or recycled) in the endoplasmic reticulum. Pharmacoperones correct the...
484. ...per function but end up in parts of the cell where the function is inappropriate, or even deleterious, to cell function. Misfolded proteins are usually recognized by the quality-control system of the **cell** and retained (and often destroyed or recycled) in the endoplasmic reticulum. Pharmacoperones correct the folding of misfolded proteins, allowing them to pass through the cell's quality-control system...
485. ...ty-control system of the cell and retained (and often destroyed or recycled) in the endoplasmic reticulum. Pharmacoperones correct the folding of misfolded proteins, allowing them to pass through the **cell**'s quality-control system and become correctly routed. Since mutations often cause disease by causing misfolding and misrouting, pharmacoperones are potentially therapeutic agents, since they are able...
486. ...groups are also present in myoglobin to store and diffuse oxygen in muscle cells. The human body needs iron for oxygen transport. Oxygen (O) is required for the functioning and survival of nearly all **cell** types. Oxygen is transported from the lungs to the rest of the body bound to the heme group of hemoglobin in red blood cells. In muscles cells, iron binds oxygen to myoglobin, which regulates its rel...
487. ...nd accept electrons means that it can catalyze the conversion of hydrogen peroxide into free radicals. Free radicals can cause damage to a wide variety of cellular structures, and ultimately kill the **cell**. Iron bound to proteins or cofactors such as heme is safe. Also, there are virtually no truly free iron ions in the cell, since they readily form complexes with organic molecules. However, some of th...
488. ...cause damage to a wide variety of cellular structures, and ultimately kill the cell. Iron bound to proteins or cofactors such as heme is safe. Also, there are virtually no truly free iron ions in the **cell**, since they readily form complexes with organic molecules. However, some of the intracellular iron is bound to low-affinity complexes, and is termed labile iron or "free" iron. Iron in such complexes...
489. ...bacterial infections. Although this mechanism is an elegant response to short-term bacterial infection, it can cause problems when it goes on so long that the body is deprived of needed iron for red **cell** production. Inflammatory cytokines stimulate the liver to produce the iron metabolism regulator protein hepcidin, that reduces available iron. If hepcidin levels increase because of non-bacterial sou...
490. ..., which is an ill-defined deposit of protein and iron, created by macrophages where excess iron is present, either locally or systemically, e.g., among people with iron overload due to frequent blood **cell** destruction and the necessary transfusions their condition calls for. If systemic iron overload is corrected, over time the hemosiderin is slowly resorbed by the macrophages. Human iron homeostasis i...
491. ...uncontrolled loss of iron from epithelial sloughing, sweat, injuries and blood loss. In addition, systemic iron is continuously recycled. Cellular iron levels are controlled differently by different **cell** types due to the expression of particular iron regulatory and transport proteins. The absorption of dietary iron is a variable and dynamic process. The amount of iron absorbed compared to the amount...
492. ...b), reduces ferric Fe to Fe. A protein called divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), which can transport several divalent metals across the plasma membrane, then transports iron across the enterocyte's **cell** membrane into the cell. If the iron is bound to heme, it is instead transported across the apical membrane by heme carrier protein 1 (HCP1). Heme is then catabolized by microsomal heme oxygenase into...
493. ...o Fe. A protein called divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), which can transport several divalent metals across the plasma membrane, then transports iron across the enterocyte's cell membrane into the **cell**. If the iron is bound to heme, it is instead transported across the apical membrane by heme carrier protein 1 (HCP1). Heme is then catabolized by microsomal heme oxygenase into biliverdin, releasing...
494. ...verdin, releasing Fe. These intestinal lining cells can then either store the iron as ferritin, which is accomplished by Fe binding to apoferritin (in which case the iron will leave the body when the **cell** dies and is sloughed off into feces), or the cell can release it into the body via the only known iron exporter in mammals, ferroportin. Hephaestin, a ferroxidase that can oxidize Fe to Fe and is fou...
495. ...s can then either store the iron as ferritin, which is accomplished by Fe binding to apoferritin (in which case the iron will leave the body when the cell dies and is sloughed off into feces), or the **cell** can release it into the body via the only known iron exporter in mammals, ferroportin. Hephaestin, a ferroxidase that can oxidize Fe to Fe and is found mainly in the small intestine, helps ferroporti...
496. ...n lose more. Those who cannot regulate absorption well enough get disorders of iron overload. In these diseases, the toxicity of iron starts overwhelming the body's ability to bind and store it. Most **cell** types take up iron primarily through receptor-mediated endocytosis via transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1), transferrin receptor 2 (TFR2) and GAPDH. TFR1 has a 30-fold higher affinity for transferrin-bound...
497. ...nge that causes endocytosis. Iron then enters the cytoplasm from the endosome via importer DMT1 after being reduced to its ferrous state by a STEAP family reductase. Alternatively, iron can enter the **cell** directly via plasma membrane divalent cation importers such as DMT1 and ZIP14 (Zrt-Irt-like protein 14). Again, iron enters the cytoplasm in the ferrous state after being reduced in the extracellular...
498. ...n be problematic in cases of iron overload. The ferritin storage iron pool is much larger than the labile iron pool, ranging in concentration from 0.7 mM to 3.6 mM. Iron export occurs in a variety of **cell** types, including neurons, red blood cells, macrophages and enterocytes. The latter two are especially important since systemic iron levels depend upon them. There is only one known iron exporter, fer...
499. ...ophages and enterocytes. The latter two are especially important since systemic iron levels depend upon them. There is only one known iron exporter, ferroportin. It transports ferrous iron out of the **cell**, generally aided by ceruloplasmin and/or hephaestin (mostly in enterocytes), which oxidize iron to its ferric state so it can bind ferritin in the extracellular medium. Hepcidin causes the internaliz...
500. ...e surface of iron loaded cells where it recruits apo-transferrin in close proximity to ferroportin so as to rapidly chelate the iron extruded. The expression of hepcidin, which only occurs in certain **cell** types such as hepatocytes, is tightly controlled at the transcriptional level and it represents the link between cellular and systemic iron homeostasis due to hepcidin's role as "gatekeeper" of iron...
501. ...pharmacies in Europe. A mortar and pestle is a more common symbol in the United States.  Leukemia inhibitory factor Leukemia inhibitory factor, or LIF, is an interleukin 6 class cytokine that affects **cell** growth by inhibiting differentiation. When LIF levels drop, the cells differentiate. LIF derives its name from its ability to induce the terminal differentiation of myeloid leukemic cells, thus preve...
502. ...rom its ability to induce the terminal differentiation of myeloid leukemic cells, thus preventing their continued growth. Other properties attributed to the cytokine include: the growth promotion and **cell** differentiation of different types of target cells, influence on bone metabolism, cachexia, neural development, embryogenesis and inflammation. p53 regulated LIF has been shown to facilitate implanta...
503. ...of transcription) and MAPK (mitogen activated protein kinase) cascades. LIF is normally expressed in the trophectoderm of the developing embryo, with its receptor LIFR expressed throughout the inner **cell** mass. As embryonic stem cells are derived from the inner cell mass at the blastocyst stage, removing them from the inner cell mass also removes their source of LIF. Recombinant LIF has been produced...
504. ...cascades. LIF is normally expressed in the trophectoderm of the developing embryo, with its receptor LIFR expressed throughout the inner cell mass. As embryonic stem cells are derived from the inner **cell** mass at the blastocyst stage, removing them from the inner cell mass also removes their source of LIF. Recombinant LIF has been produced in plants by InVitria. LIF is often added to stem cell culture...
505. ...developing embryo, with its receptor LIFR expressed throughout the inner cell mass. As embryonic stem cells are derived from the inner cell mass at the blastocyst stage, removing them from the inner **cell** mass also removes their source of LIF. Recombinant LIF has been produced in plants by InVitria. LIF is often added to stem cell culture media as an alternative to feeder cell culture, due to the limi...
506. ...e inner cell mass at the blastocyst stage, removing them from the inner cell mass also removes their source of LIF. Recombinant LIF has been produced in plants by InVitria. LIF is often added to stem **cell** culture media as an alternative to feeder cell culture, due to the limitation that feeder cells present by only producing LIF on their cell surfaces. Feeder cells lacking the LIF gene do not effectiv...
507. ...ving them from the inner cell mass also removes their source of LIF. Recombinant LIF has been produced in plants by InVitria. LIF is often added to stem cell culture media as an alternative to feeder **cell** culture, due to the limitation that feeder cells present by only producing LIF on their cell surfaces. Feeder cells lacking the LIF gene do not effectively support stem cells. LIF promotes self-renew...
508. ...produced in plants by InVitria. LIF is often added to stem cell culture media as an alternative to feeder cell culture, due to the limitation that feeder cells present by only producing LIF on their **cell** surfaces. Feeder cells lacking the LIF gene do not effectively support stem cells. LIF promotes self-renewal by recruiting signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3). Stat3 is recruit...
509. ...er and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3). Stat3 is recruited to the activated LIF receptor and phosphorylated by Janus kinase. It bears noting that LIF and Stat3 are not sufficient to inhibit stem **cell** differentiation, as cells will differentiate upon removal of serum. During the reversibility phase of differentiation from naive pluripotency, it is possible to revert cells back to naive pluripotenc...
510. ...hes stem cells toward differentiation, however genetic manipulation of embryonic stem cells allows for LIF independent growth, notably overexpression of the gene Nanog. LIF is typically added to stem **cell** culture medium to reduce spontaneous differentiation. Phospholipidosis Phospholipidosis is a lysosomal storage disorder characterized by the excess accumulation of phospholipids in tissues. Certain c...
511. ...toms are so severe that they have been hospitalized. Electroconvulsive therapy has been found to reduce thoughts of suicide and relieve depressive symptoms. It is associated with an increase in glial **cell** line derived neurotrophic factor. rTMS (repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation) is gradually becoming recognised as a valuable therapeutic option in treatment-resistant depression. A number of...
512. ...ished alumnus of the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences at Colorado State University. Magnesium transporter Magnesium transporters are proteins that transport magnesium across the **cell** membrane. All forms of life require magnesium, yet the molecular mechanisms of Mg uptake from the environment and the distribution of this vital element within the organism are only slowly being eluc...
513. ...are toxic to "S. typhimurium" cells containing a functional CorA protein and this toxicity stems from the blocking of Mg uptake (competitive inhibition) and the accumulation of these ions inside the **cell**. Co and Ni have been shown to be transported by CorA by using radioactive tracer analysis, although with lower affinities (km) and velocities (Vmax) than for Mg (see table). The km values for Co and...
514. ...Mg, which showed that CorA is the major uptake system for Mg in bacteria. The authors also showed for the first time that the changes in the electric potential (ΔΨ) across the plasma membrane of the **cell** affected both the rate of Mg uptake and the free Mg content of the cell; depolarisation suppressed transport, while hyperpolarisation increased transport. The kinetics of transport were defined only...
515. ...a. The authors also showed for the first time that the changes in the electric potential (ΔΨ) across the plasma membrane of the cell affected both the rate of Mg uptake and the free Mg content of the **cell**; depolarisation suppressed transport, while hyperpolarisation increased transport. The kinetics of transport were defined only by the rate of change of free Mg inside the cells (250 μM s). Because no...
516. ...during the process of infection of human patients by "S. typhimurium". Although neither gene is required for pathogenicity, the MgtB protein does enhance the long-term survival of the pathogen in the **cell**. The genes are also upregulated "in vitro" when the Mg concentration falls below 50 μM (Snavely "et al.", 1991a). Although the proteins have km values similar to CorA and transport rates approximatel...
517. ...ported into yeast by a CorA-like transport system. The increased toxicity of the cations in the presence of the transporter is assumed to be due to the increased accumulation of the cation inside the **cell**. The evidence that Alr1p is primarily a Mg transporter is that the loss of Alr1p leads to a decreased total cell content of Mg, but not of other cations. Additionally, two electrophysiological studie...
518. ...ransporter is assumed to be due to the increased accumulation of the cation inside the cell. The evidence that Alr1p is primarily a Mg transporter is that the loss of Alr1p leads to a decreased total **cell** content of Mg, but not of other cations. Additionally, two electrophysiological studies where Alr1p was produced in yeast or "Xenopus" oocytes showed a Mg-dependent current in the presence of the pro...
519. ...r analysis and mag-fura 2 to measure Mg uptake have not yet been used with Alr1p. Mg is currently not available and the mag-fura 2 system is unlikely to provide simple uptake data in yeast. The yeast **cell** maintains a heterogeneous distribution of Mg suggesting that multiple systems inside the yeast are transporting Mg into storage compartments. This internal transport will very likely mask the uptake...
520. ...d in the storage of excess mineral nutrients by yeast. A direct role of Mnr2 in Mg transport was suggested by the observation that increased Mnr2 expression, which redirected some Mnr2 protein to the **cell** surface, also suppressed the Mg-requirement of an alr1 alr2 double mutant strain. The mnr2 mutation also altered accumulation of other divalent cations, suggesting this mutation may increase Alr gene...
521. ...an Mnr2 wild-type strain. These effects were observed without any change in Alr1 protein accumulation, again indicating that Alr1 activity may be regulated directly by the Mg concentration within the **cell**. Like the ALR genes, the MRS2 gene was cloned and sequenced before it was identified as a Mg transporter. The MRS2 gene was identified in the nuclear genome of yeast in a screen for suppressors of a...
522. ...esence of TRPM6 the affinity series of transported cations places Mg above Ca. The differences in reported conductance were caused by the expression patterns of these genes. TRPM7 is expressed in all **cell** types tested so far, while TRPM6 shows a more restricted pattern of expression. An unfortunate choice of experimental system by Voets "et al.", (2004) led to the conclusion that TRPM6 is a functional...
523. ...er, later work by Chubanov "et al." (2004) clearly showed that TRPM7 is required for TRPM6 activity and that the results of Voets "et al." are explained by the expression of TRPM7 in the experimental **cell** line used by Voets "et al." in their experiments. Whether TRPM6 is functional by itself is yet to be determined. The predicted TM topology of the TPRM6 and TRPM7 proteins has been adapted from Nadler...
524. ...s in cytoplasmic free Mg. Claudins allow for Mg transport via the paracellular pathway; that is, it mediates the transport of the ion through the tight junctions between cells that form an epithelial **cell** layer. In particular, Claudin-16 allows the selective reuptake of Mg in the human kidney. Some patients with mutations in the CLDN19 gene also have altered magnesium transport. The gene Claudin-16 wa...
525. ...EC due to different tissues having different sensitivities to the drug (in part due to tissue specific receptor expression). Furthermore, EC is dependent on many factors including species, tissue and **cell** type and genetics. Daniel Vasella Daniel Lucius Vasella (born 15 August 1953) is a Swiss medical doctor, author, and executive who was CEO and chairman of the Swiss pharmaceutical company Novartis AG...
526. ...aximal response and formula_3 is the Hill coefficient. The parameters of the dose response curve reflect measures of potency (such as EC50, IC50, ED50, etc.) and measures of efficacy (such as tissue, **cell** or population response). A commonly used dose–response curve is the EC curve, the half maximal effective concentration, where the EC point is defined as the inflection point of the curve. Dose respon...
527. ..., pSivida acquired full ownership of pSiMedica. In April 2018, pSivida purchased eye products firm Icon Bioscience. Afterwards, it rebranded to its current name of EyepOint Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Stem-**cell** therapy Stem-cell therapy uses stem cells to treat or prevent a disease or condition. , the only FDA-approved therapy using stem cells is hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. This usually takes t...
528. ...full ownership of pSiMedica. In April 2018, pSivida purchased eye products firm Icon Bioscience. Afterwards, it rebranded to its current name of EyepOint Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Stem-cell therapy Stem-**cell** therapy uses stem cells to treat or prevent a disease or condition. , the only FDA-approved therapy using stem cells is hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. This usually takes the form of a bone...
529. ...f EyepOint Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Stem-cell therapy Stem-cell therapy uses stem cells to treat or prevent a disease or condition. , the only FDA-approved therapy using stem cells is hematopoietic stem **cell** transplantation. This usually takes the form of a bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation, but the cells can also be derived from umbilical cord blood. Research is underway to devel...
530. ...t or prevent a disease or condition. , the only FDA-approved therapy using stem cells is hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. This usually takes the form of a bone marrow or peripheral blood stem **cell** transplantation, but the cells can also be derived from umbilical cord blood. Research is underway to develop various sources for stem cells as well as to apply stem-cell treatments for neurodegenera...
531. ...row or peripheral blood stem cell transplantation, but the cells can also be derived from umbilical cord blood. Research is underway to develop various sources for stem cells as well as to apply stem-**cell** treatments for neurodegenerative diseases and conditions such as diabetes and heart disease. Stem-cell therapy has become controversial following developments such as the ability of scientists to iso...
532. ...d blood. Research is underway to develop various sources for stem cells as well as to apply stem-cell treatments for neurodegenerative diseases and conditions such as diabetes and heart disease. Stem-**cell** therapy has become controversial following developments such as the ability of scientists to isolate and culture embryonic stem cells, to create stem cells using somatic cell nuclear transfer, and th...
533. ...and heart disease. Stem-cell therapy has become controversial following developments such as the ability of scientists to isolate and culture embryonic stem cells, to create stem cells using somatic **cell** nuclear transfer, and their use of techniques to create induced pluripotent stem cells. This controversy is often related to abortion politics and human cloning. Additionally, efforts to market treat...
534. ...ed to abortion politics and human cloning. Additionally, efforts to market treatments based on transplant of stored umbilical cord blood have been controversial. For over 90 years, hematopoietic stem **cell** transplantation (HSCT) has been used to treat people with conditions such as leukemia and lymphoma; this is the only widely practiced form of stem-cell therapy. During chemotherapy, most growing cell...
535. ...oversial. For over 90 years, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) has been used to treat people with conditions such as leukemia and lymphoma; this is the only widely practiced form of stem-**cell** therapy. During chemotherapy, most growing cells are killed by the cytotoxic agents. These agents, however, cannot discriminate between the leukaemia or neoplastic cells, and the hematopoietic stem c...
536. ..., cannot discriminate between the leukaemia or neoplastic cells, and the hematopoietic stem cells within the bone marrow. This is the side effect of conventional chemotherapy strategies that the stem-**cell** transplant attempts to reverse; a donor's healthy bone marrow reintroduces functional stem cells to replace the cells lost in the host's body during treatment. The transplanted cells also generate an...
537. ...nerate an immune response that helps to kill off the cancer cells; this process can go too far, however, leading to graft vs host disease, the most serious side effect of this treatment. Another stem-**cell** therapy, called Prococvhymal, was conditionally approved in Canada in 2012 for the management of acute graft-vs-host disease in children who are unresponsive to steroids. It is an allogenic stem ther...
538. .... MSCs are purified from the marrow, cultured and packaged, with up to 10,000 doses derived from a single donor. The doses are stored frozen until needed. The FDA has approved five hematopoietic stem-**cell** products derived from umbilical cord blood, for the treatment of blood and immunological diseases. In 2014, the European Medicines Agency recommended approval of limbal stem cells for people with sev...
539. ...d from umbilical cord blood, for the treatment of blood and immunological diseases. In 2014, the European Medicines Agency recommended approval of limbal stem cells for people with severe limbal stem **cell** deficiency due to burns in the eye. Stem cells are being studied for several reasons. The molecules and exosomes released from stem cells are also being studied in an effort to make medications. In a...
540. ...ased from stem cells are also being studied in an effort to make medications. In addition to the functions of the cells themselves, paracrine soluble factors produced by stem cells, known as the stem **cell** secretome, have been found to be another mechanism by which stem cell-based therapies mediate their effects in degenerative, autoimmune, and inflammatory diseases. Most stem cells intended for regene...
541. ...ations. In addition to the functions of the cells themselves, paracrine soluble factors produced by stem cells, known as the stem cell secretome, have been found to be another mechanism by which stem **cell**-based therapies mediate their effects in degenerative, autoimmune, and inflammatory diseases. Most stem cells intended for regenerative therapy are generally isolated either from the patient's bone m...
542. ...ferred for bone, cartilage, ligament, and tendon repair, others believe that the less challenging collection techniques and the multi-cellular microenvironment already present in adipose-derived stem **cell** fractions make the latter the preferred source for autologous transplantation. New sources of mesenchymal stem cells are being researched, including stem cells present in the skin and dermis which ar...
543. ...mal and ectodermal origin. As of 2010, there was widespread controversy over the use of human embryonic stem cells. This controversy primarily targets the techniques used to derive new embryonic stem **cell** lines, which often requires the destruction of the blastocyst. Opposition to the use of human embryonic stem cells in research is often based on philosophical, moral, or religious objections. There i...
544. ...often requires the destruction of the blastocyst. Opposition to the use of human embryonic stem cells in research is often based on philosophical, moral, or religious objections. There is other stem **cell** research that does not involve the destruction of a human embryo, and such research involves adult stem cells, amniotic stem cells, and induced pluripotent stem cells. In January 2009, the US Food an...
545. ...ls, amniotic stem cells, and induced pluripotent stem cells. In January 2009, the US Food and Drug Administration gave clearance to Geron Corporation for the first clinical trial of an embryonic stem-**cell**-based therapy on humans. The trial aimed to evaluate the drug GRNOPC1, embryonic stem cell-derived oligodendrocyte progenitor cells, on people with acute spinal cord injury. The trial was discontinue...
546. ...nd Drug Administration gave clearance to Geron Corporation for the first clinical trial of an embryonic stem-cell-based therapy on humans. The trial aimed to evaluate the drug GRNOPC1, embryonic stem **cell**-derived oligodendrocyte progenitor cells, on people with acute spinal cord injury. The trial was discontinued in November 2011 so that the company could focus on therapies in the "current environment...
547. ...y could focus on therapies in the "current environment of capital scarcity and uncertain economic conditions". In 2013 biotechnology and regenerative medicine company BioTime () acquired Geron's stem **cell** assets in a stock transaction, with the aim of restarting the clinical trial. Scientists reported 2012 that MSCs when transfused immediately within few hours post thawing may show reduced function or...
548. ...2012 that MSCs when transfused immediately within few hours post thawing may show reduced function or show decreased efficacy in treating diseases as compared to those MSCs which are in log phase of **cell** growth (fresh), so cryopreserved MSCs should be brought back into log phase of cell growth in "in vitro" culture before administration. Re-culturing of MSCs will help in recovering from the shock the...
549. ...educed function or show decreased efficacy in treating diseases as compared to those MSCs which are in log phase of cell growth (fresh), so cryopreserved MSCs should be brought back into log phase of **cell** growth in "in vitro" culture before administration. Re-culturing of MSCs will help in recovering from the shock the cells get during freezing and thawing. Various MSC clinical trials which used cryop...
550. ...s. The ability to grow up functional adult tissues indefinitely in culture through Directed differentiation creates new opportunities for drug research. Researchers are able to grow up differentiated **cell** lines and then test new drugs on each cell type to examine possible interactions "in vitro" before performing "in vivo" studies. This is critical in the development of drugs for use in veterinary res...
551. ...tissues indefinitely in culture through Directed differentiation creates new opportunities for drug research. Researchers are able to grow up differentiated cell lines and then test new drugs on each **cell** type to examine possible interactions "in vitro" before performing "in vivo" studies. This is critical in the development of drugs for use in veterinary research because of the possibilities of speci...
552. ...performing "in vivo" studies. This is critical in the development of drugs for use in veterinary research because of the possibilities of species-specific interactions. The hope is that having these **cell** lines available for research use will reduce the need for research animals used because effects on human tissue "in vitro" will provide insight not normally known before the animal testing phase. To...
553. ...large numbers of high-quality stem cells are needed. Thus, it is necessary to develop culture systems which produce pure populations of tissue-specific stem cells "in vitro" without the loss of stem-**cell** potential. Two main approaches are taken for this purpose: two-dimensional and three-dimensional cell culture. Cell culture in two dimensions has been routinely performed in thousands of laboratories...
554. ...which produce pure populations of tissue-specific stem cells "in vitro" without the loss of stem-cell potential. Two main approaches are taken for this purpose: two-dimensional and three-dimensional **cell** culture. Cell culture in two dimensions has been routinely performed in thousands of laboratories worldwide for the past four decades. In two-dimensional platforms, cells are typically exposed to a s...
555. ...pure populations of tissue-specific stem cells "in vitro" without the loss of stem-cell potential. Two main approaches are taken for this purpose: two-dimensional and three-dimensional cell culture. **Cell** culture in two dimensions has been routinely performed in thousands of laboratories worldwide for the past four decades. In two-dimensional platforms, cells are typically exposed to a solid, rigid fl...
556. ...liquid at the apical surface. Inhabiting such a two-dimensional rigid substrate requires a dramatic adaption for the surviving cells because they lack the extracellular matrix that is unique to each **cell** type which may alter cell metabolism and reduce its functionality. Three-dimensional cell culture systems may create a biomimicking microenvironment for stem cells, resembling their native three-dime...
557. ...ace. Inhabiting such a two-dimensional rigid substrate requires a dramatic adaption for the surviving cells because they lack the extracellular matrix that is unique to each cell type which may alter **cell** metabolism and reduce its functionality. Three-dimensional cell culture systems may create a biomimicking microenvironment for stem cells, resembling their native three-dimensional extracellular matr...
558. ...a dramatic adaption for the surviving cells because they lack the extracellular matrix that is unique to each cell type which may alter cell metabolism and reduce its functionality. Three-dimensional **cell** culture systems may create a biomimicking microenvironment for stem cells, resembling their native three-dimensional extracellular matrix (ECM). Advanced biomaterials have significantly contributed t...
559. ...create a biomimicking microenvironment for stem cells, resembling their native three-dimensional extracellular matrix (ECM). Advanced biomaterials have significantly contributed to three-dimensional **cell** culture systems in recent decades, and more unique and complex biomaterials have been proposed for improving stem-cell proliferation and controlled differentiation. Among them, nanostructured biomate...
560. ...(ECM). Advanced biomaterials have significantly contributed to three-dimensional cell culture systems in recent decades, and more unique and complex biomaterials have been proposed for improving stem-**cell** proliferation and controlled differentiation. Among them, nanostructured biomaterials are of particular interest because they have the advantage of a high surface-to-volume ratio, and they mimic the...
561. ...cartilage, tendon, and ligament tissue. To further enrich blood supply to the damaged areas, and consequently promote tissue regeneration, platelet-rich plasma could be used in conjunction with stem **cell** transplantation. The efficacy of some stem cell populations may also be affected by the method of delivery; for instance, to regenerate bone, stem cells are often introduced in a scaffold where they...
562. ...her enrich blood supply to the damaged areas, and consequently promote tissue regeneration, platelet-rich plasma could be used in conjunction with stem cell transplantation. The efficacy of some stem **cell** populations may also be affected by the method of delivery; for instance, to regenerate bone, stem cells are often introduced in a scaffold where they produce the minerals necessary for generation of...
563. ...lateral sclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease. Preliminary studies related to multiple sclerosis have been conducted, and a 2020 phase 2 trial found significantly improved outcomes for mesenchymal stem **cell** treated patients compared to those receiving a sham treatment. In January 2021 the FDA approved the first clinical trial for an investigational stem cell therapy to restore lost brain cells in people...
564. ...cantly improved outcomes for mesenchymal stem cell treated patients compared to those receiving a sham treatment. In January 2021 the FDA approved the first clinical trial for an investigational stem **cell** therapy to restore lost brain cells in people with advanced Parkinson's disease. Healthy adult brains contain neural stem cells, which divide to maintain general stem-cell numbers, or become progenit...
565. ...for an investigational stem cell therapy to restore lost brain cells in people with advanced Parkinson's disease. Healthy adult brains contain neural stem cells, which divide to maintain general stem-**cell** numbers, or become progenitor cells. In healthy adult laboratory animals, progenitor cells migrate within the brain and function primarily to maintain neuron populations for olfaction (the sense of s...
566. ...activation of endogenous neural stem cells has been reported to induce neuroprotection and behavioral recovery in adult rat models of neurological disorders. Stroke and traumatic brain injury lead to **cell** death, characterized by a loss of neurons and oligodendrocytes within the brain. Clinical and animal studies have been conducted into the experimental use of stem cells in cases of spinal cord injury...
567. ...udied in people with severe heart disease. The work by Bodo-Eckehard Strauer was discredited by identifying hundreds of factual contradictions. Among several clinical trials reporting that adult stem **cell** therapy is safe and effective, actual evidence of benefit has been reported from only a few studies. Some preliminary clinical trials achieved only modest improvements in heart function following the...
568. ...ctive, actual evidence of benefit has been reported from only a few studies. Some preliminary clinical trials achieved only modest improvements in heart function following the use of bone marrow stem **cell** therapy. Stem-cell therapy for the treatment of myocardial infarction usually makes use of autologous bone marrow stem cells, but other types of adult stem cells may be used, such as adipose-derived...
569. ...nce of benefit has been reported from only a few studies. Some preliminary clinical trials achieved only modest improvements in heart function following the use of bone marrow stem cell therapy. Stem-**cell** therapy for the treatment of myocardial infarction usually makes use of autologous bone marrow stem cells, but other types of adult stem cells may be used, such as adipose-derived stem cells. Possibl...
570. ...s of recovery include:Generation of heart muscle cells, Stimulating growth of new blood vessels to repopulate damaged heart tissue and secretion of growth factors. The specificity of the human immune-**cell** repertoire is what allows the human body to defend itself from rapidly adapting antigens. However, the immune system is vulnerable to degradation upon the pathogenesis of disease, and because of the...
571. ...which are precursors of red blood cells. In this process, HSCs are grown together with stromal cells, creating an environment that mimics the conditions of bone marrow, the natural site of red-blood-**cell** growth. Erythropoietin, a growth factor, is added, coaxing the stem cells to complete terminal differentiation into red blood cells. Further research into this technique should have potential benefit...
572. ...in the future. Heller has reported success in re-growing cochlea hair cells with the use of embryonic stem cells. In a 2019 review that looked at hearing regeneration and regenerative medicine, stem **cell**-derived otic progenitors have the potential to greatly improve hearing. Since 2003, researchers have successfully transplanted corneal stem cells into damaged eyes to restore vision. "Sheets of retin...
573. ...sulin-producing beta cells within the pancreas. In a 2007 publication of experiments, scientists have been able to coax embryonic stem cells to turn into beta cells in the lab. In theory, if the beta **cell** is transplanted successfully, they will be able to replace malfunctioning ones in a diabetic patient. There are adverse effects of high glucose concentrations on stem cell therapy, however. As of 201...
574. ...lab. In theory, if the beta cell is transplanted successfully, they will be able to replace malfunctioning ones in a diabetic patient. There are adverse effects of high glucose concentrations on stem **cell** therapy, however. As of 2017, use of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from adult stem cells was under preliminary research for potential orthopedic applications in bone and muscle trauma, cartil...
575. ...the case of wounded fetal tissue, however, wounded tissue is replaced with normal tissue through the activity of stem cells. A possible method for tissue regeneration in adults is to place adult stem **cell** "seeds" inside a tissue bed "soil" in a wound bed and allow the stem cells to stimulate differentiation in the tissue bed cells. This method elicits a regenerative response more similar to fetal woun...
576. ...number of stem cells processed in the hospital's laboratory during that time. A university investigation, closed in 2012 without reporting, was reopened in July 2013. In 2014, a meta-analysis on stem **cell** therapy using bone-marrow stem cells for heart disease revealed discrepancies in published clinical trial reports, whereby studies with a higher number of discrepancies showed an increase in effect s...
577. ...a higher number of discrepancies showed an increase in effect sizes. Another meta-analysis based on the intra-subject data of 12 randomized trials was unable to find any significant benefits of stem **cell** therapy on primary endpoints, such as major adverse events or increase in heart function measures, concluding there was no benefit. 2018 results of the TIME trial, which used a randomized, double-bli...
578. ...eated BMCs in patients with STEMI and moderately reduced LVEF". Furthermore, the trial also did not meet any other secondary MRI endpoints, leading to a conclusion that intracoronary bone marrow stem **cell** therapy does not offer a functional or clinical benefit. In 2021, stem cell injections in the US have caused grave infections in at least 20 patients who received umbilical cord blood-derived product...
579. ...the trial also did not meet any other secondary MRI endpoints, leading to a conclusion that intracoronary bone marrow stem cell therapy does not offer a functional or clinical benefit. In 2021, stem **cell** injections in the US have caused grave infections in at least 20 patients who received umbilical cord blood-derived products marketed as "stem cell treatment". In 2023, the case of a woman who was in...
580. ...fer a functional or clinical benefit. In 2021, stem cell injections in the US have caused grave infections in at least 20 patients who received umbilical cord blood-derived products marketed as "stem **cell** treatment". In 2023, the case of a woman who was infected with Mycobacterium abscessus and sustained meningitis after stem cell treatment for multiple sclerosis at a commercial clinic in Baja Califor...
581. ...ts who received umbilical cord blood-derived products marketed as "stem cell treatment". In 2023, the case of a woman who was infected with Mycobacterium abscessus and sustained meningitis after stem **cell** treatment for multiple sclerosis at a commercial clinic in Baja California, Mexico was published. Research conducted on horses, dogs, and cats has led to the development of stem cell treatments in ve...
582. ...gitis after stem cell treatment for multiple sclerosis at a commercial clinic in Baja California, Mexico was published. Research conducted on horses, dogs, and cats has led to the development of stem **cell** treatments in veterinary medicine which can target a wide range of injuries and diseases, such as myocardial infarction, stroke, tendon and ligament damage, osteoarthritis, osteochondrosis and muscul...
583. ...diseases, such as myocardial infarction, stroke, tendon and ligament damage, osteoarthritis, osteochondrosis and muscular dystrophy, both in large animals as well as in humans. While investigation of **cell**-based therapeutics generally reflects human medical needs, the high degree of frequency and severity of certain injuries in racehorses has put veterinary medicine at the forefront of this novel regen...
584. ...t veterinary medicine at the forefront of this novel regenerative approach. Companion animals can serve as clinically relevant models that closely mimic human disease. Veterinary applications of stem **cell** therapy as a means of tissue regeneration have been largely shaped by research that began with the use of adult-derived mesenchymal stem cells to treat animals with injuries or defects affecting bone...
585. ...four weeks of placing the scaffold, newly formed bone begins to integrate with the old bone and within 32 weeks, full union is achieved. Further studies are necessary to fully characterize the use of **cell**-based therapeutics for treatment of bone fractures. Stem cells have been used to treat degenerative bone diseases in dogs. The normally recommended treatment for dogs that have Legg–Calve–Perthes dis...
586. ...ation has progressed. Recently, mesenchymal stem cells have been injected directly in to the head of the femur, with success not only in bone regeneration, but also in pain reduction. Autologous stem **cell**-based treatments for ligament injury, tendon injury, osteoarthritis, osteochondrosis, and sub-chondral bone cysts have been commercially available to practicing veterinarians to treat horses since 20...
587. ...ndrosis, and sub-chondral bone cysts have been commercially available to practicing veterinarians to treat horses since 2003 in the United States and since 2006 in the United Kingdom. Autologous stem **cell** based treatments for tendon injury, ligament injury, and osteoarthritis in dogs have been available to veterinarians in the United States since 2005. Over 3000 privately owned horses and dogs have be...
588. ...echanical stimulus promoted the regeneration of tendon tissue. The natural movement promoted the alignment of the new fibers and tendocytes with the natural alignment found in uninjured tendons. Stem **cell** treatment not only allowed more horses to return to full duty and also greatly reduced the re-injury rate over a three-year period. The use of embryonic stem cells has also been applied to tendon rep...
589. ...ost frequently affected by arthritis. Natural cartilage regeneration is very limited. Different types of mesenchymal stem cells and other additives are still being researched to find the best type of **cell** and method for long-term treatment. Adipose-derived mesenchymal cells are currently the most often used for stem cell treatment of osteoarthritis because of the non-invasive harvesting. This is a rec...
590. ...tem cells and other additives are still being researched to find the best type of cell and method for long-term treatment. Adipose-derived mesenchymal cells are currently the most often used for stem **cell** treatment of osteoarthritis because of the non-invasive harvesting. This is a recently developed, non-invasive technique developed for easier clinical use. Dogs receiving this treatment showed greate...
591. ...s pain. Stem cells have successfully been used to ameliorate healing in the heart after myocardial infarction in dogs. Adipose and bone marrow derived stem cells were removed and induced to a cardiac **cell** fate before being injected into the heart. The heart was found to have improved contractility and a reduction in the damaged area four weeks after the stem cells were applied. In 2007, a trial was un...
592. ...ccess at creating contractile heart tissue. 2018 research, such as the European nTRACK research project, aims to demonstrate that multimodal nanoparticles can structurally and functionally track stem **cell** in muscle regeneration therapy. The idea is to label stem cells with gold nano-particles that are fully characterised for uptake, functionality, and safety. The labelled stem cells will be injected i...
593. ...ng the trauma. These cells involved in the secondary damage response secrete factors that promote scar formation and inhibit cellular regeneration. Mesenchymal stem cells that are induced to a neural **cell** fate are loaded onto a porous scaffold and are then implanted at the site of injury. The cells and scaffold secrete factors that counteract those secreted by scar forming cells and promote neural reg...
594. ...stem cells have been used to treat corneal ulcers of different origin of several horses. These ulcers were resistant to conventional treatments available, but quickly responded positively to the stem **cell** treatment. Stem cells were also able to restore sight in one eye of a horse with retinal detachment, allowing the horse to return to daily activities. Stem cells are being explored for use in conserv...
595. ...ndividuals who die before reaching sexual maturity, preserving a line that would otherwise be lost. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, there was an initial wave of companies and clinics offering stem **cell** therapy, while not substantiating health claims or having regulatory approval. By 2012, a second wave of companies and clinics had emerged, usually located in developing countries where medicine is l...
596. ...ng health claims or having regulatory approval. By 2012, a second wave of companies and clinics had emerged, usually located in developing countries where medicine is less regulated and offering stem **cell** therapies on a medical tourism model. Like the first wave companies and clinics, they made similar strong, but unsubstantiated, claims, mainly by clinics in the United States, Mexico, Thailand, India...
597. ...hey made similar strong, but unsubstantiated, claims, mainly by clinics in the United States, Mexico, Thailand, India, and South Africa. By 2016, research indicated that there were more than 550 stem **cell** clinics in the US alone selling generally unproven therapies for a wide array of medical conditions in almost every state in the country, altering the dynamic of stem cell tourism. In 2018, the FDA s...
598. ...ere were more than 550 stem cell clinics in the US alone selling generally unproven therapies for a wide array of medical conditions in almost every state in the country, altering the dynamic of stem **cell** tourism. In 2018, the FDA sent a warning letter to StemGenex Biologic Laboratories in San Diego, which marketed a service in which it took body fat from people, processed it into mixtures it said con...
599. ...al trials. Registration of a study notifies the agency but does not prove that review has taken place. Registration with the FDA similarly does not prove that approval has been granted. Costs of stem **cell** therapies range widely by clinic, condition, and cell type, but most commonly range between $10,000-$20,000. Insurance does not cover stem cell injections at clinics so patients often use on-line fun...
600. ...but does not prove that review has taken place. Registration with the FDA similarly does not prove that approval has been granted. Costs of stem cell therapies range widely by clinic, condition, and **cell** type, but most commonly range between $10,000-$20,000. Insurance does not cover stem cell injections at clinics so patients often use on-line fundraising. In 2018, the US Federal Trade Commission fou...
601. ...not prove that approval has been granted. Costs of stem cell therapies range widely by clinic, condition, and cell type, but most commonly range between $10,000-$20,000. Insurance does not cover stem **cell** injections at clinics so patients often use on-line fundraising. In 2018, the US Federal Trade Commission found health centers and an individual physician making unsubstantiated claims for stem cell...
602. ...cell injections at clinics so patients often use on-line fundraising. In 2018, the US Federal Trade Commission found health centers and an individual physician making unsubstantiated claims for stem **cell** therapies, and forced refunds of some $500,000. The FDA filed suit against two stem cell clinic firms around the same time, seeking permanent injunctions against their marketing and use of unapproved...
603. ...deral Trade Commission found health centers and an individual physician making unsubstantiated claims for stem cell therapies, and forced refunds of some $500,000. The FDA filed suit against two stem **cell** clinic firms around the same time, seeking permanent injunctions against their marketing and use of unapproved adipose stem cell products. Although according to the NIH no stem cell treatments have b...
604. ...d forced refunds of some $500,000. The FDA filed suit against two stem cell clinic firms around the same time, seeking permanent injunctions against their marketing and use of unapproved adipose stem **cell** products. Although according to the NIH no stem cell treatments have been approved for COVID-19, and the agency recommends against the use of MSCs for the disease, some stem cell clinics began market...
605. ...against two stem cell clinic firms around the same time, seeking permanent injunctions against their marketing and use of unapproved adipose stem cell products. Although according to the NIH no stem **cell** treatments have been approved for COVID-19, and the agency recommends against the use of MSCs for the disease, some stem cell clinics began marketing both unproven and non-FDA-approved stem cells and...
606. ...pproved adipose stem cell products. Although according to the NIH no stem cell treatments have been approved for COVID-19, and the agency recommends against the use of MSCs for the disease, some stem **cell** clinics began marketing both unproven and non-FDA-approved stem cells and exosomes for COVID-19 in 2020. The FDA took prompt action by sending letters to the firms in question. The FTC also warned a...
607. ...ics began marketing both unproven and non-FDA-approved stem cells and exosomes for COVID-19 in 2020. The FDA took prompt action by sending letters to the firms in question. The FTC also warned a stem **cell** firm for misleading COVID-19-related marketing. Firefighting foam Firefighting foam is a foam used for fire suppression. Its role is to cool the fire and to coat the fuel, preventing its contact with...
608. ...PS), which also include segregatively separated systems in which both phases are enriched in one type of polymer. Membraneless organelles (MLOs), also known as biomolecular condensates, are a form of **cell** compartmentalization. Unlike classic membrane-bound organelles (e.g. mitochondrion, nucleus or lysosome), MLOs are not separated from their surroundings by a lipid bilayer. MLOs are mostly composed o...
609. ...thin protocells. Work by chemists Sidney Fox, Kaoru Harada, Stanley Miller and Harold Urey further strengthened the theory that inorganic building blocks could increase in complexity and give rise to **cell**-like structures. The Oparin-Haldane hypothesis established the foundations of research on the chemistry of abiogenesis, but the lipid-world and RNA-world scenarios have gained more attention since th...
610. ...es, and effects of drugs that may enhance (receptor) or diminish (blocker) activity at the synapse, which is the junction across which a nerve impulse passes from an axon terminal to a neuron, muscle **cell**, or gland cell. A partial list of pharmacological agents that act at synapses follows. Electronic data capture An electronic data capture (EDC) system is a computerized system designed for the collec...
611. ...of drugs that may enhance (receptor) or diminish (blocker) activity at the synapse, which is the junction across which a nerve impulse passes from an axon terminal to a neuron, muscle cell, or gland **cell**. A partial list of pharmacological agents that act at synapses follows. Electronic data capture An electronic data capture (EDC) system is a computerized system designed for the collection of clinica...
612. ...mically, bSi is hydrated silica (SiO·"n"HO), which is essential to many plants and animals. Diatoms in both fresh and salt water extract dissolved silica from the water to use as a component of their **cell** walls. Likewise, some holoplanktonic protozoa (Radiolaria), some sponges, and some plants (leaf phytoliths) use silicon as a structural material. Silicon is known to be required by chicks and rats fo...
613. ...pen ocean surface waters for the buildup of their particulate silica (SiO), or opaline, skeletal structures (i.e. the biota's hard parts). Some of the most common siliceous structures observed at the **cell** surface of silica-secreting organisms include: spicules, scales, solid plates, granules, frustules, and other elaborate geometric forms, depending on the species considered. Five major sources of dis...
614. ...ange of activities. In various animal models and in vitro studies on animal and human tissues, they decrease hypertension and pain perception; suppress inflammation; inhibit angiogenesis, endothelial **cell** migration and endothelial cell proliferation; and inhibit the growth and metastasis of human breast and prostate cancer cell lines. It is suggested that the EDP and EEQ metabolites function in humans...
615. ...animal models and in vitro studies on animal and human tissues, they decrease hypertension and pain perception; suppress inflammation; inhibit angiogenesis, endothelial cell migration and endothelial **cell** proliferation; and inhibit the growth and metastasis of human breast and prostate cancer cell lines. It is suggested that the EDP and EEQ metabolites function in humans as they do in animal models an...
616. ...pain perception; suppress inflammation; inhibit angiogenesis, endothelial cell migration and endothelial cell proliferation; and inhibit the growth and metastasis of human breast and prostate cancer **cell** lines. It is suggested that the EDP and EEQ metabolites function in humans as they do in animal models and that, as products of the omega-3 fatty acids, docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid...
617. ...the major CYP enzyme in the intestine. Inhibition of enzymes can have two different effects: Grapefruit or grapefruit juice can also reduce the absorption of many drugs by inhibiting transport across **cell** membranes, by the transporters P-glycoprotein (a member of the superfamily of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters) and members of the organo anion transporter family. These transporters appear to...
618. ...en" the enzyme, the intestinal cells must produce more of the enzyme to restore their capacity to metabolize drugs that the enzyme is used to metabolize. It takes around 24 hours to regain 50% of the **cell**'s baseline enzyme activity and it can take 72 hours for the enzyme activity to completely return to baseline. For this reason, simply separating citrus consumption and medications taken daily does no...
619. ...neralization (bone, teeth) is promoted while tissue forming cells are in direct contact with bioglass materials. Whereas a material is considered bioactive if it has interaction with or effect on any **cell** tissue in the human body, pharmacological activity is usually taken to describe beneficial effects, i.e. the effects of drug candidates as well as a substance's toxicity. In the study of biomineralis...
620. ...presence of penicillin, and noted that penicillin was neither an enzyme that broke the bacteria down, nor an antiseptic that killed them; rather, it was a chemical that interfered with the process of **cell** division. Jennings observed that it had no effect on white blood cells, and would therefore reinforce rather than hinder the body's natural defences against bacteria. She also found that unlike sulph...
621. ...s, iron oxide nanoparticles for biomedical use had increased dramatically, largely due to its ability of non-invasive imaging, targeting and triggering drug release, or cancer therapy. Stem or immune **cell** could be marked with iron oxide nanoparticles to be detected by Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). However, the concentration of iron oxide nanoparticles needs to be high enough to enable the signific...
622. ...ted biomolecule and allow its detection through changes in the carbon nanotube fluorescence spectra. Also, carbon nanotubes can be designed to match the size of small drug and endocitozed by a target **cell**, hence becoming a delivery agent. Cells are very sensitive to nanotopographical features, so optimization of surfaces in tissue engineering has pushed towards implantation. Under appropriate conditio...
623. ...notopographical features, so optimization of surfaces in tissue engineering has pushed towards implantation. Under appropriate conditions, a carefully crafted 3-dimensional scaffold is used to direct **cell** seeds toward artificial organ growth. The 3-D scaffold incorporates various nanoscale factors that control the environment for optimal and appropriate functionality. The scaffold is an analog of the...
624. ...healing process. Electrospinning is a polymerization method used biologically in tissue engineering but can also be used for wound dressing and drug delivery. This produces nanofibers that encourage **cell** proliferation, antibacterial properties, in controlled environment. These properties appear macroscopically, however, nanoscale versions may show improved efficiency due to nanotopographical features...
625. ...nanostructures. The Yang group has active research projects in the areas of nanowire photonics, nanowire-based solar cells, nanowires for solar to fuel conversion, nanowire thermoelectrics, nanowire-**cell** interface, nanocrystal catalysis, nanotube nanofluidics, and plasmonics. Francesco Selmi Francesco Selmi (7 April 1817 – 13 August 1881) was an Italian chemist and patriot, one of the founders of col...
626. ...-containing compounds. Bacteria and fungi can absorb inorganic sulfate from the environment through a sulfate transporter, which is regulated by the presence of sulfate in the medium. Once inside the **cell**, sulfate is activated by ATP sulfurylase to form adenosine 5'-phosphosulfate (APS), which is then reduced to sulfite by APS reductase. Sulfite is further reduced to sulfide by sulfite reductase, whic...
627. ...ycan synthesis is being inhibited, and filamentation of target cells can be an indication that PBP3, FtsZ, or DNA synthesis is being inhibited. Other antibacterial agent-induced changes include ovoid **cell** formation, pseudomulticellular forms, localized swelling, bulge formation, blebbing, and peptidoglycan thickening. In the case of anticancer agents, bleb formation can be an indication that the compo...
628. ...cinal fungi have polysaccharides that can be used to prevent the spread of cancer by activating different types of immune cells (namely T lymphocytes, macrophages, and NK cells), which inhibit cancer **cell** reproduction and metastasis (the process by which cancer can spread to different parts of the body). Fungi have been used to make many antibiotics since Sir Alexander Flemming discovered Penicillin f...
629. ...hat are being treated. A Drug-Eluting Stent (DES) is a small mesh tube that is placed in the arteries to keep them open in the treatment of vascular disease. The stent slowly releases a drug to block **cell** proliferation, thus preventing the arterial narrowing that can occur after stent implantation. While such stents can be used in various arteries throughout the body, they are commonly placed in the c...
630. ...ent the arterial narrowing that can occur after stent implantation. These drugs are also used for other purposes, that involve moderating the immune system or treating cancer. They work by inhibiting **cell** growth. In DES, they are used in very small amounts and for a short time, and only in the area where the stent is placed. There is a distinction between coronary stents and peripheral stents. While b...
631. ...wly stented area, thereby reducing the potential for blockage within the stent area itself. Such blockage is termed in-stent restenosis (ISR). This in-stent blockage is most often caused by excessive **cell** proliferation or thrombi (blood clots). Anticoagulation therapy (blood thinners), has become a standard treatment following the placement of DES. This therapy significantly reduces the occurrence of...
632. ...andable microspheres are the most common types of polymer microspheres.  "Polystyrene microspheres" are typically used in biomedical applications due to their ability to facilitate procedures such as **cell** sorting and immunoprecipitation. Proteins and ligands adsorb onto polystyrene readily and permanently, which makes polystyrene microspheres suitable for medical research and biological laboratory exp...
633. ...ually by budding, they do not pass on any type of genetic material. However they may have been important in the development of life, providing a membrane-enclosed volume which is similar to that of a **cell**. Microspheres, like cells, can grow and contain a double membrane which undergoes diffusion of materials and osmosis. Sidney Fox postulated that as these microspheres became more complex, they would...
634. ...eleased as extracellular microvesicles from red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, or endothelial cells. These biological microparticles are thought to be shed from the plasma membrane of the **cell** as lipid bilayer-bound entities that are typically larger than 100 nm in diameter. "Microparticle" has been used most frequently in this sense in the hemostasis literature, usually as a term for plat...
635. ...t frequently in this sense in the hemostasis literature, usually as a term for platelet EVs found in the blood circulation. Because EVs retain the signature membrane protein composition of the parent **cell**, MPs and other EVs may carry useful information including biomarkers of disease. They can be detected and characterized by methods such as flow cytometry, or dynamic light scattering. Remote data ent...
636. ...nhibited by molecules produced later in the pathway, thus curtailing the production of molecules that are no longer needed. This type of negative feedback is an important way to maintain balance in a **cell**. Enzyme inhibitors also control essential enzymes such as proteases or nucleases that, if left unchecked, may damage a cell. Many poisons produced by animals or plants are enzyme inhibitors that bloc...
637. ...This type of negative feedback is an important way to maintain balance in a cell. Enzyme inhibitors also control essential enzymes such as proteases or nucleases that, if left unchecked, may damage a **cell**. Many poisons produced by animals or plants are enzyme inhibitors that block the activity of crucial enzymes in prey or predators. Many drug molecules are enzyme inhibitors that inhibit an aberrant h...
638. ...mical structures that are similar to ATP, one of the substrates of these enzymes. However, drugs that are simple competitive inhibitors will have to compete with the high concentrations of ATP in the **cell**. Protein kinases can also be inhibited by competition at the binding sites where the kinases interact with their substrate proteins, and most proteins are present inside cells at concentrations much...
639. ...losteric site in PFK1 to decrease the rate of the enzyme reaction; glycolysis is inhibited and ATP production falls. This negative feedback control helps maintain a steady concentration of ATP in the **cell**. However, metabolic pathways are not just regulated through inhibition since enzyme activation is equally important. With respect to PFK1, fructose 2,6-bisphosphate and ADP are examples of metabolite...
640. ...s. The metabolic processes targeted by natural poisons encompass more than enzymes in metabolic pathways and can also include the inhibition of receptor, channel and structural protein functions in a **cell**. For example, paclitaxel (taxol), an organic molecule found in the Pacific yew tree, binds tightly to tubulin dimers and inhibits their assembly into microtubules in the cytoskeleton. Many natural po...
641. ...tein toxin found in castor oil beans. This enzyme is a glycosidase that inactivates ribosomes. Since ricin is a catalytic irreversible inhibitor, this allows just a single molecule of ricin to kill a **cell**. The most common uses for enzyme inhibitors are as drugs to treat disease. Many of these inhibitors target a human enzyme and aim to correct a pathological condition. For instance, aspirin is a widel...
642. ...t halts the signal, it makes this signal last for a longer period of time. Drugs are also used to inhibit enzymes needed for the survival of pathogens. For example, bacteria are surrounded by a thick **cell** wall made of a net-like polymer called peptidoglycan. Many antibiotics such as penicillin and vancomycin inhibit the enzymes that produce and then cross-link the strands of this polymer together. Thi...
643. ...a net-like polymer called peptidoglycan. Many antibiotics such as penicillin and vancomycin inhibit the enzymes that produce and then cross-link the strands of this polymer together. This causes the **cell** wall to lose strength and the bacteria to burst. In the figure, a molecule of penicillin (shown in a ball-and-stick form) is shown bound to its target, the transpeptidase from the bacteria "Streptomy...
644. ...erminase inhibitors targeting human cytomegalovirus. Many pesticides are enzyme inhibitors. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is an enzyme found in animals, from insects to humans. It is essential to nerve **cell** function through its mechanism of breaking down the neurotransmitter acetylcholine into its constituents, acetate and choline. This is somewhat unusual among neurotransmitters as most, including sero...
645. ...bering over 4,000 distinct chemical structures mostly from plants, such polyphenols have not been demonstrated to be antioxidants in vivo.  In vitro at high experimental doses, polyphenols may affect **cell**-to-cell signaling, receptor sensitivity, inflammatory enzyme activity or gene regulation. None of these hypothetical effects has been confirmed in humans by high-quality clinical research, . The main...
646. ...ver 4,000 distinct chemical structures mostly from plants, such polyphenols have not been demonstrated to be antioxidants in vivo.  In vitro at high experimental doses, polyphenols may affect cell-to-**cell** signaling, receptor sensitivity, inflammatory enzyme activity or gene regulation. None of these hypothetical effects has been confirmed in humans by high-quality clinical research, . The main source...
647. ...sive transfer, a few exceptions include levodopa and fluorouracil, which are both absorbed through carrier-mediated transport. For passive transfer to occur, the drug has to diffuse through the lipid **cell** membrane of the epithelial cells lining the inside of the intestines. The rate at which this happens is largely determined by two factors: Ionization and lipid solubility. Factors influencing gastroi...
648. ...used medicinal chemistry metric for the optimization of a drug's ability to permeate cells. Molecules with a polar surface area of greater than 140 angstroms squared (Å) tend to be poor at permeating **cell** membranes. For molecules to penetrate the blood–brain barrier (and thus act on receptors in the central nervous system), a PSA less than 90 Å is usually needed. TPSA is a valuable tool in drug discov...
649. ...al techniques explore the structural, electronic, molecular shape, and physicochemical similarities of different ligands that could imply their mode of action against a specific molecular receptor or **cell** lines. A candidate ligand can then be compared to the pharmacophore model to determine whether it is compatible with it and therefore likely to bind. Different 2D chemical similarity analysis methods...
650. ...content analysis (HCA) or cellomics, is a method that is used in biological research and drug discovery to identify substances such as small molecules, peptides, or RNAi that alter the phenotype of a **cell** in a desired manner. Hence high content screening is a type of phenotypic screen conducted in cells involving the analysis of whole cells or components of cells with simultaneous readout of several p...
651. ...llular phenotypes as outputs. Phenotypic changes may include increases or decreases in the production of cellular products such as proteins and/or changes in the morphology (visual appearance) of the **cell**. Hence HCA typically involves automated microscopy and image analysis. Unlike high-content analysis, high-content screening implies a level of throughput which is why the term "screening" differentia...
652. ...substance and after a period of time, structures and molecular components of the cells are analyzed. The most common analysis involves labeling proteins with fluorescent tags, and finally changes in **cell** phenotype are measured using automated image analysis. Through the use of fluorescent tags with different absorption and emission maxima, it is possible to measure several different cell components i...
653. ...y changes in cell phenotype are measured using automated image analysis. Through the use of fluorescent tags with different absorption and emission maxima, it is possible to measure several different **cell** components in parallel. Furthermore, the imaging is able to detect changes at a subcellular level (e.g., cytoplasm vs. nucleus vs. other organelles). Therefore, a large number of data points can be c...
654. ...n parallel. Furthermore, the imaging is able to detect changes at a subcellular level (e.g., cytoplasm vs. nucleus vs. other organelles). Therefore, a large number of data points can be collected per **cell**. In addition to fluorescent labeling, various label free assays have been used in high content screening. High-content screening (HCS) in cell-based systems uses living cells as tools in biological r...
655. ...fore, a large number of data points can be collected per cell. In addition to fluorescent labeling, various label free assays have been used in high content screening. High-content screening (HCS) in **cell**-based systems uses living cells as tools in biological research to elucidate the workings of normal and diseased cells. HCS is also used to discover and optimize new drug candidates. High content scr...
656. ...s tools in biological research to elucidate the workings of normal and diseased cells. HCS is also used to discover and optimize new drug candidates. High content screening is a combination of modern **cell** biology, with all its molecular tools, with automated high resolution microscopy and robotic handling. Cells are first exposed to chemicals or RNAi reagents. Changes in cell morphology are then detec...
657. ...s a combination of modern cell biology, with all its molecular tools, with automated high resolution microscopy and robotic handling. Cells are first exposed to chemicals or RNAi reagents. Changes in **cell** morphology are then detected using image analysis. Changes in the amounts of proteins synthesized by cells are measured using a variety of techniques such as the green fluorescent proteins fused to e...
658. ...orescent antibodies. The technology may be used to determine whether a potential drug is disease modifying. For example, in humans G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are a large family of around 880 **cell** surface proteins that transduce extra-cellular changes in the environment into a cell response, like triggering an increase in blood pressure because of the release of a regulatory hormone into the b...
659. ...is disease modifying. For example, in humans G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) are a large family of around 880 cell surface proteins that transduce extra-cellular changes in the environment into a **cell** response, like triggering an increase in blood pressure because of the release of a regulatory hormone into the blood stream. Activation of these GPCRs can involve their entry into cells and when thi...
660. ...of a systematic analysis of receptor function through chemical genetics, systematic genome wide screening or physiological manipulation. At a cellular level, parallel acquisition of data on different **cell** properties, for example activity of signal transduction cascades and cytoskeleton integrity is the main advantage of this method in comparison to the faster but less detailed high throughput screenin...
661. ...tanding of drug effects. Automated image based screening permits the identification of small compounds altering cellular phenotypes and is of interest for the discovery of new pharmaceuticals and new **cell** biological tools for modifying cell function. The selection of molecules based on a cellular phenotype does not require a prior knowledge of the biochemical targets that are affected by compounds. Ho...
662. ...mage based screening permits the identification of small compounds altering cellular phenotypes and is of interest for the discovery of new pharmaceuticals and new cell biological tools for modifying **cell** function. The selection of molecules based on a cellular phenotype does not require a prior knowledge of the biochemical targets that are affected by compounds. However the identification of the biol...
663. ...he biological target will make subsequent preclinical optimization and clinical development of the compound hit significantly easier. Given the increase in the use of phenotypic/visual screening as a **cell** biological tool, methods are required that permit systematic biochemical target identification if these molecules are to be of broad use. Target identification has been defined as the rate limiting s...
664. ...iments. HCS instruments on the market today can be separated based on an array of specifications that significantly influence the instruments versatility and overall cost. These include speed, a live **cell** chamber that includes temperature and control (some also have humidity control for longer term live cell imaging), a built in pipettor or injector for fast kinetic assays, and additional imaging mode...
665. ...nificantly influence the instruments versatility and overall cost. These include speed, a live cell chamber that includes temperature and control (some also have humidity control for longer term live **cell** imaging), a built in pipettor or injector for fast kinetic assays, and additional imaging modes such as confocal, bright field, phase contrast and FRET. One of the most incisive difference is whether...
666. ...nstrument complexity, and price between these various confocal techniques. What all instruments share is the ability to take, store and interpret images automatically and integrate into large robotic **cell**/medium handling platforms. Many screens are analyzed using the image analysis software that accompanies the instrument, providing a turn-key solution. Third-party software alternatives are often used...
667. ...ardization on a single analysis platform without the use of third-party software, however. This technology allows a (very) large number of experiments to be performed, allowing explorative screening. **Cell**-based systems are mainly used in chemical genetics where large, diverse small molecule collections are systematically tested for their effect on cellular model systems. Novel drugs can be found using...
668. ...for the future of drug development.  Beyond drug discovery, chemical genetics is aimed at functionalizing the genome by identifying small molecules that acts on most of the 21,000 gene products in a **cell**. High-content technology will be part of this effort which could provide useful tools for learning where and when proteins act by knocking them out chemically. This would be most useful for gene wher...
669. ...there. Chemical knock out could address how and where these genes work. Further the technology is used in combination with RNAi to identify sets of genes involved in specific mechanisms, for example **cell** division. Here, libraries of RNAis, covering a whole set of predicted genes inside the target organism's genome can be used to identify relevant subsets, facilitating the annotation of genes for whic...
670. ...rget organism's genome can be used to identify relevant subsets, facilitating the annotation of genes for which no clear role has been established beforehand. The large datasets produced by automated **cell** biology contain spatially resolved, quantitative data which can be used for building for systems level models and simulations of how cells and organisms function. Systems biology models of cell funct...
671. ...mated cell biology contain spatially resolved, quantitative data which can be used for building for systems level models and simulations of how cells and organisms function. Systems biology models of **cell** function would permit prediction of why, where and how the cell responds to external changes, growth and disease. High-content screening technology allows for the evaluation of multiple biochemical a...
672. ...which can be used for building for systems level models and simulations of how cells and organisms function. Systems biology models of cell function would permit prediction of why, where and how the **cell** responds to external changes, growth and disease. High-content screening technology allows for the evaluation of multiple biochemical and morphological parameters in intact biological systems. For ce...
673. ...ll responds to external changes, growth and disease. High-content screening technology allows for the evaluation of multiple biochemical and morphological parameters in intact biological systems. For **cell**-based approaches the utility of automated cell biology requires an examination of how automation and objective measurement can improve the experimentation and the understanding of disease. First, it...
674. ...ease. High-content screening technology allows for the evaluation of multiple biochemical and morphological parameters in intact biological systems. For cell-based approaches the utility of automated **cell** biology requires an examination of how automation and objective measurement can improve the experimentation and the understanding of disease. First, it removes the influence of the investigator in mo...
675. ...tion of how automation and objective measurement can improve the experimentation and the understanding of disease. First, it removes the influence of the investigator in most, but not all, aspects of **cell** biology research and second it makes entirely new approaches possible. In review, classical 20th century cell biology used cell lines grown in culture where the experiments were measured using very s...
676. ...ase. First, it removes the influence of the investigator in most, but not all, aspects of cell biology research and second it makes entirely new approaches possible. In review, classical 20th century **cell** biology used cell lines grown in culture where the experiments were measured using very similar to that described here, but there the investigator made the choice on what was measured and how. In the...
677. ...oves the influence of the investigator in most, but not all, aspects of cell biology research and second it makes entirely new approaches possible. In review, classical 20th century cell biology used **cell** lines grown in culture where the experiments were measured using very similar to that described here, but there the investigator made the choice on what was measured and how. In the early 1990s, the...
678. ...ure features in pictures of cells- such as how much protein is in the nucleus, how much is outside. Sophisticated measurements soon followed using new fluorescent molecules, which are used to measure **cell** properties like second messenger concentrations or the pH of internal cell compartments. The wide use of the green fluorescent protein, a natural fluorescent protein molecule from jellyfish, then acc...
679. ...us, how much is outside. Sophisticated measurements soon followed using new fluorescent molecules, which are used to measure cell properties like second messenger concentrations or the pH of internal **cell** compartments. The wide use of the green fluorescent protein, a natural fluorescent protein molecule from jellyfish, then accelerated the trend toward cell imaging as a mainstream technology in cell b...
680. ...ssenger concentrations or the pH of internal cell compartments. The wide use of the green fluorescent protein, a natural fluorescent protein molecule from jellyfish, then accelerated the trend toward **cell** imaging as a mainstream technology in cell biology. Despite these advances, the choice of which cell to image and which data to present and how to analyze it was still selected by the investigator. B...
681. ...l cell compartments. The wide use of the green fluorescent protein, a natural fluorescent protein molecule from jellyfish, then accelerated the trend toward cell imaging as a mainstream technology in **cell** biology. Despite these advances, the choice of which cell to image and which data to present and how to analyze it was still selected by the investigator. By analogy, if one imagines a football field...
682. ...protein, a natural fluorescent protein molecule from jellyfish, then accelerated the trend toward cell imaging as a mainstream technology in cell biology. Despite these advances, the choice of which **cell** to image and which data to present and how to analyze it was still selected by the investigator. By analogy, if one imagines a football field and dinner plates laid across it, instead of looking at a...
683. ...attach to blood proteins within the blood plasma. A drug's efficacy may be affected by the degree to which it binds. The less bound a drug is, the more efficiently it can traverse or diffuse through **cell** membranes. Common blood proteins that drugs bind to are human serum albumin, lipoprotein, glycoprotein, and α, β‚ and γ globulins. A drug in blood exists in two forms: bound and unbound. Depending on...
684. ...s usage to form a singular foamed layer upon biopolymers such as collagen or curcumin. Foaming these surfaces results in a variety of surface modifications that may improve the material's ability for **cell** adhesion, permeability of fluids due to cell structure, and the formation of nanoscopic fibers. Additionally, an iron-nitrogen co-doped carbon nanofoam was purposed to be fabricated through the acile...
685. ...biopolymers such as collagen or curcumin. Foaming these surfaces results in a variety of surface modifications that may improve the material's ability for cell adhesion, permeability of fluids due to **cell** structure, and the formation of nanoscopic fibers. Additionally, an iron-nitrogen co-doped carbon nanofoam was purposed to be fabricated through the acile salt-assisted pyrolysis process of chitoolig...
686. ...ange of angles depending on the wave vector . with where is the incident laser wavelength, is the solvent refractive index and is the angle at which the detector is located with respect to the sample **cell**. The refractive index of the solvent plays a crucial role in light scattering and is important to calculate the Stokes radius from the Stokes-Einstein equation. Therefore, previous refractive index d...
687. ...ugs are absorbed more rapidly than water-soluble drugs. The gastrointestinal tract is lined with epithelial cells. Drugs must pass through or permeate these cells to be absorbed into the bloodstream. **Cell** membranes may act as barriers to some drugs. They are essentially lipid bilayers which form semipermeable membranes. Pure lipid bilayers are generally permeable only to small, uncharged solutes. Henc...
688. ...lecules have special exchange proteins and channels to facilitate movement from the lumen into the circulation. Ions cannot passively diffuse through the gastrointestinal tract because the epithelial **cell** membrane is made up of a phospholipid bilayer, comprising two layers of phospholipids in which the charged hydrophilic heads face outwards and the uncharged hydrophobic fatty acid chains are in the m...
689. ...e stomach, drugs that are weak acids (such as aspirin) will be present mainly in their non-ionic form, and weak bases will be in their ionic form. Since non-ionic species diffuse more readily through **cell** membranes, weak acids will have a higher absorption in the highly acidic stomach. However, the reverse is true in the basic environment of the intestines—weak bases (such as caffeine) will diffuse mo...
690. ...re of the calcium hydroxyapatite. Calcium usually binds with other proteins and molecules in order to perform other functions in the body. The calcium bound proteins usually play an important role in **cell**-cell adhesion, hydrolytic processes (such as hydrolytic enzymes like glycosidases and sulfatases) and protein folding and sorting. These processes play into the larger part of cell structure and meta...
691. ...the calcium hydroxyapatite. Calcium usually binds with other proteins and molecules in order to perform other functions in the body. The calcium bound proteins usually play an important role in cell-**cell** adhesion, hydrolytic processes (such as hydrolytic enzymes like glycosidases and sulfatases) and protein folding and sorting. These processes play into the larger part of cell structure and metabolis...
692. ...important role in cell-cell adhesion, hydrolytic processes (such as hydrolytic enzymes like glycosidases and sulfatases) and protein folding and sorting. These processes play into the larger part of **cell** structure and metabolism. Magnesium is the most abundant free cation in plant cytosol, is the central atom in chlorophyll and offers itself as a bridging ion for the aggregation of ribosomes in plant...
693. ...nature, it is often used in many drugs against bacterial infections in humans. Inversely, due to the bacterial nature of mitochondria, zinc antibiotics are also lethal to mitochondria and results in **cell** death at high concentrations. Zinc is also used in a number of transcription factors, proteins and enzymes. Sodium is a metal where humans have discovered a great deal of its total roles in the body...
694. ...covered a great deal of its total roles in the body as well as being one of the only two alkali metals that play a major role in the bodily functions. It plays an important role in maintenance of the **cell** membrane potential and the electrochemical gradient in the body via the sodium-potassium pump and sodium-glucose transport proteins. Sodium also serves a purpose in the nervous system and cell commun...
695. ...of the cell membrane potential and the electrochemical gradient in the body via the sodium-potassium pump and sodium-glucose transport proteins. Sodium also serves a purpose in the nervous system and **cell** communication as they flood into axons during an action potential to preserve the strength of the signal. It has also been shown that sodium affects immune response both in efficiency and speed. Macr...
696. ...m plays a key role in maintaining plant health. High concentrations of potassium in plants play a key role in synthesis of essential proteins in plants as well as development of plant organelles like **cell** walls to prevent damage from viruses and insects. It also lowers the concentration of low molecular weight molecules like sugars and amino acids and increases the concentration of high weight molecul...
697. ...weight molecules like protein which also prevent the development and propagation of viruses. Potassium absorption has a positive correlation with aquaporins and the uptake of water in plant cells via **cell** membrane proteins. Because of this correlation, it has been noted that potassium also plays a key part in stomatal movement and regulation as high concentrations of potassium are moved into the plant...
698. ...as high concentrations of potassium are moved into the plant stomata to keep them open and promote photosynthesis. In animals, potassium also plays a key part along with sodium in maintaining resting **cell** membrane potential and in cell-cell communication via repolarization of axon pathways after an action potential between neurons. Potassium may also play a key part in maintaining blood pressure in an...
699. ...sium are moved into the plant stomata to keep them open and promote photosynthesis. In animals, potassium also plays a key part along with sodium in maintaining resting cell membrane potential and in **cell**-cell communication via repolarization of axon pathways after an action potential between neurons. Potassium may also play a key part in maintaining blood pressure in animals as shown in a study where...
700. ...are moved into the plant stomata to keep them open and promote photosynthesis. In animals, potassium also plays a key part along with sodium in maintaining resting cell membrane potential and in cell-**cell** communication via repolarization of axon pathways after an action potential between neurons. Potassium may also play a key part in maintaining blood pressure in animals as shown in a study where incr...
701. ...P production. It plays a key role in the function of enzymes like cytochrome a, b and c as well as iron-sulfur complexes which play an important role in ATP production. It is present in every type of **cell** in the brain as the brain itself has a very high energy requirement and by extension a very high iron requirement. In animals, iron plays a very important role in transporting oxygen from the lungs t...
702. ...e specific to a target site. There are several ways that active targeting can be accomplished. One way to actively target solely diseased tissue in the body is to know the nature of a receptor on the **cell** for which the drug will be targeted to. Researchers can then utilize cell-specific ligands that will allow the nanoparticle to bind specifically to the cell that has the complementary receptor. This...
703. ...can be accomplished. One way to actively target solely diseased tissue in the body is to know the nature of a receptor on the cell for which the drug will be targeted to. Researchers can then utilize **cell**-specific ligands that will allow the nanoparticle to bind specifically to the cell that has the complementary receptor. This form of active targeting was found to be successful when utilizing transfe...
704. ...is to know the nature of a receptor on the cell for which the drug will be targeted to. Researchers can then utilize cell-specific ligands that will allow the nanoparticle to bind specifically to the **cell** that has the complementary receptor. This form of active targeting was found to be successful when utilizing transferrin as the cell-specific ligand. The transferrin was conjugated to the nanoparticl...
705. ...gands that will allow the nanoparticle to bind specifically to the cell that has the complementary receptor. This form of active targeting was found to be successful when utilizing transferrin as the **cell**-specific ligand. The transferrin was conjugated to the nanoparticle to target tumor cells that possess transferrin-receptor mediated endocytosis mechanisms on their membrane. This means of targeting...
706. ...or cells that possess transferrin-receptor mediated endocytosis mechanisms on their membrane. This means of targeting was found to increase uptake, as opposed to non-conjugated nanoparticles. Another **cell**-specific ligand is the RGD motif which binds to the integrin αvβ3. This integrin is upregulated in tumor and activated endothelial cells. Conjugation of RGD to chemotherapeutic-loaded nanoparticles h...
707. ...which binds to the integrin αvβ3. This integrin is upregulated in tumor and activated endothelial cells. Conjugation of RGD to chemotherapeutic-loaded nanoparticles has been shown to increase cancer **cell** uptake "in vitro" and therapeutic efficacy "in vivo". Active targeting can also be achieved by utilizing magnetoliposomes, which usually serves as a contrast agent in magnetic resonance imaging. Thus...
708. ...cle has a heightened advantage over a conventional drug. It is able to circulate throughout the body for an extended period of time until it is successfully attracted to its target through the use of **cell**-specific ligands, magnetic positioning, or pH responsive materials. Because of these advantages, side effects from conventional drugs will be largely reduced as a result of the drug-loaded nanopartic...
709. ...-particle drug carriers, dendrimers, etc. An ideal drug delivery vehicle must be non-toxic, biocompatible, non-immunogenic, biodegradable, and must avoid recognition by the host's defense mechanisms. **Cell** Surface Peptides provide one way to introduce drug delivery into a target cell. This method is accomplished by the peptide binding to a target cells surface receptors, in a way that bypasses immune d...
710. ...e non-toxic, biocompatible, non-immunogenic, biodegradable, and must avoid recognition by the host's defense mechanisms. Cell Surface Peptides provide one way to introduce drug delivery into a target **cell**. This method is accomplished by the peptide binding to a target cells surface receptors, in a way that bypasses immune defenses that would otherwise compromise a slower delivery, without causing harm...
711. ...ld otherwise compromise a slower delivery, without causing harm to the host. In particular, peptides, such as intercellular adhesion molecule-1, have shown a great deal of binding ability in a target **cell**. This method has shown a degree of efficacy in treating both autoimmune diseases as well as forms of cancer as a result of this binding affinity. Peptide mediated delivery is also of promise due to t...
712. ...delivery system, the ability to induce instability in the construct is commonly exploited allowing the selective release of the encapsulated therapeutic agent in close proximity to the target tissue/**cell** "in vivo". This nanocarrier system is commonly used in anti-cancer treatments as the acidity of the tumour mass caused by an over-reliance on glycolysis triggers drug release. Additional endogenous t...
713. ...atible microalgae hybrid microrobots for active drug-delivery in the lungs and the gastrointestinal tract. The microrobots proved effective in tests with mice. In the two studies, "Fluorescent dye or **cell** membrane–coated nanoparticle functionalized algae motors were further embedded inside a pH-sensitive capsule" and "antibiotic-loaded neutrophil membrane-coated polymeric nanoparticles [were attached]...
714. ...he development of a number of regenerative strategies in recent years for "curing" heart disease represents a paradigm shift away from conventional approaches that aim to "manage" heart disease. Stem **cell** therapy can be used to help regenerate myocardium tissue and return the contractile function of the heart by creating/supporting a microenvironment before the MI. Developments in targeted drug delive...
715. ...r the burgeoning field of targeted drug delivery to cardiac tissue. Recent developments have shown that there are different endothelial surfaces in tumors, which has led to the concept of endothelial **cell** adhesion molecule-mediated targeted drug delivery to tumors. Liposomes can be used as drug delivery for the treatment of tuberculosis. The traditional treatment for TB is skin to chemotherapy which i...
716. ...gress of Basic and Clinical Pharmacology (WCP2018) being held in Kyoto, Japan on July 1–6, 2018 will focus on drug development and therapeutics using new methodologies such as genome sequencing, stem **cell** biology, nanotechnology and systems biology. Ian Read Ian C. Read (born 1953) is a Scottish-born American business executive and a chartered accountant, who is executive chairman of the pharmaceutica...
717. ...and sonophoresis resulted in a 56-fold enhancement of heparin flux in comparison to sonophoresis having a 3-fold enhancement and iontophoresis having a 15-fold enhancement. Electroporation allows the **cell** membrane to open up after applying an electric field. By applying short, high voltage pulses to the stratum corneum, the lipid structure will become disorganized and allow enhancement of drug deliver...
718. ...ve health care systems in rural areas of the poorest countries. Transfersome Transfersome is a proprietary drug delivery technology, an artificial vesicle designed to exhibit the characteristics of a **cell** vesicle suitable for controlled and potentially targeted drug delivery. Some evidence has shown efficacy for its use for drug delivery without causing skin irritation, potentially being used to treat...
719. ...osmotic equilibrium (i.e. the total osmolytes on each side are not the same) "In vivo", ion balance does equilibriate at the proportions that would be predicted by the Gibbs–Donnan model, because the **cell** cannot tolerate the attendant large influx of water. This is balanced by instating a functionally impermeant cation, Na, extracellularly to counter the anionic protein. Na does cross the membrane via...
720. ...ng fluid, the Donnan effect of the cytoplasmic proteins is equal and opposite to the Donnan effect of the extracellular proteins. The opposing Donnan effects cause chloride ions to migrate inside the **cell**, increasing the intracellular chloride concentration. The Donnan effect may explain why some red blood cells do not have active sodium pumps; the effect relieves the osmotic pressure of plasma protei...
721. ...ct may explain why some red blood cells do not have active sodium pumps; the effect relieves the osmotic pressure of plasma proteins, which is why sodium pumping is less important for maintaining the **cell** volume . Brain tissue swelling, known as cerebral oedema, results from brain injury and other traumatic head injuries that can increase intracranial pressure (ICP). Negatively charged molecules withi...
722. ...effect. ATP pumps maintain a negative membrane potential even though negative charges leak across the membrane; this action establishes a chemical and electrical gradient. The negative charge in the **cell** and ions outside the cell creates a thermodynamic potential; if damage occurs to the brain and cells lose their membrane integrity, ions will rush into the cell to balance chemical and electrical gra...
723. ...n a negative membrane potential even though negative charges leak across the membrane; this action establishes a chemical and electrical gradient. The negative charge in the cell and ions outside the **cell** creates a thermodynamic potential; if damage occurs to the brain and cells lose their membrane integrity, ions will rush into the cell to balance chemical and electrical gradients that were previousl...
724. ...l gradient. The negative charge in the cell and ions outside the cell creates a thermodynamic potential; if damage occurs to the brain and cells lose their membrane integrity, ions will rush into the **cell** to balance chemical and electrical gradients that were previously established. The membrane voltage will become zero, but the chemical gradient will still exist. To neutralize the negative charges wi...
725. ...ce chemical and electrical gradients that were previously established. The membrane voltage will become zero, but the chemical gradient will still exist. To neutralize the negative charges within the **cell**, cations flow in, which increases the osmotic pressure inside relative to the outside of the cell. The increased osmotic pressure forces water to flow into the cell and tissue swelling occurs. Uppsal...
726. ...ecome zero, but the chemical gradient will still exist. To neutralize the negative charges within the cell, cations flow in, which increases the osmotic pressure inside relative to the outside of the **cell**. The increased osmotic pressure forces water to flow into the cell and tissue swelling occurs. Uppsala Monitoring Centre Uppsala Monitoring Centre (UMC), located in Uppsala, Sweden, is the field name...
727. ...ze the negative charges within the cell, cations flow in, which increases the osmotic pressure inside relative to the outside of the cell. The increased osmotic pressure forces water to flow into the **cell** and tissue swelling occurs. Uppsala Monitoring Centre Uppsala Monitoring Centre (UMC), located in Uppsala, Sweden, is the field name for the World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Interna...
728. ...long with plasmids with a gene that codes for resistance to methotrexate, were inserted into Chinese hamster ovary cells via transfection. Transfection involves the insertion of DNA into a eukaryotic **cell**. Unlike the analogous process of transformation in bacteria, transfected DNA is not ordinarily integrated into the cell's genome, and is therefore not usually passed on to subsequent generations via...
729. ...via transfection. Transfection involves the insertion of DNA into a eukaryotic cell. Unlike the analogous process of transformation in bacteria, transfected DNA is not ordinarily integrated into the **cell**'s genome, and is therefore not usually passed on to subsequent generations via cell division. Thus, in order to obtain a "stable" transfection, a gene which confers a significant survival advantage m...
730. .... Unlike the analogous process of transformation in bacteria, transfected DNA is not ordinarily integrated into the cell's genome, and is therefore not usually passed on to subsequent generations via **cell** division. Thus, in order to obtain a "stable" transfection, a gene which confers a significant survival advantage must also be transfected, causing the few cells that did integrate the transfected DN...
731. ...ctly for transfusion to humans, the hemoglobin could be refined and employed to manufacture a blood substitute.  Bristol-Myers Squibb manufactures paclitaxel using "Penicillium raistrickii" and plant **cell** fermentation (PCF). Transgenic yeast are used to produce artemisinin, as well as a number of insulin analogs. Simmons &amp; Simmons Simmons & Simmons is an international law firm with headquarters in...
732. ...somer levobupivacaine for local anaesthesia, the pre-eminent rapid bioluminescent test for bacterial contamination, numerous enzymes and proteins for use in clinical diagnostic tests, as well as stem **cell** therapies, immunotherapeutics, oncology drugs and respiratory devices. Evans was born in 1957, in Port Talbot, to Cyril and Jeanette (Cottey) Evans. He attended St Joseph's School in Port Talbot befo...
733. ...Cyclacel in 1997. In 1994, Evans founded Toad, a vehicle technology company specialising in car security devices which went to be a publicly listed company. In 1997, Evans co-founded ReNeuron, a stem **cell** research company. The company's research focused on treatments to reverse the effects of neurological diseases. In 1998, Evans founded Biovex, a company which specialised in the development of a gene...
734. ...as awarded the OBE in 1995 and knighted in 2001. He was appointed a Honorary Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 2005. In March of that year, he was appointed by Gordon Brown to the UK Stem **Cell** Initiative. He made a £1 million loan to the British Labour Party during 2005, which became part of a wider police investigation into party donations, but on 19 July 2007 the UK Crown Prosecution Ser...
735. ...reness Trust, a charity founded by Evans which aims to build ‘useful, reliable and easily understood information’ for use by individuals who have been diagnosed with cancer. Evans founded The UK Stem **Cell** Foundation in 2005, a charity focused on funding stem cell research. Case report form A case report form (or CRF) is a paper or electronic questionnaire specifically used in clinical trial research....
736. ...d ‘useful, reliable and easily understood information’ for use by individuals who have been diagnosed with cancer. Evans founded The UK Stem Cell Foundation in 2005, a charity focused on funding stem **cell** research. Case report form A case report form (or CRF) is a paper or electronic questionnaire specifically used in clinical trial research. The case report form is the tool used by the sponsor of the...
737. ...outer leaflets, molecular self-assembly would form a channel structure. The detergent effect draws on surfactin's ability to insert its fatty acid chain into the phospholipid layer, disorganizing the **cell** membrane to increase its permeability. Insertion of several surfactin molecules into the membrane can lead to the formation of mixed micelles by self-association and bilayer influenced by fatty chain...
738. ...and bilayer influenced by fatty chain hydrophobicity ultimately leading to bilayer solubilization. Surfactin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic with detergent-like activity increasing the permeability of **cell** membranes in all bacteria, regardless of their Gram stain classification. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of surfactin is between 12-50 μg/ml. Surfactin is also capable of degrading viral...
739. ...mide. The act established the forerunner to the current Commission on Human Medicines. Ceramic foam Ceramic foam is a tough foam made from ceramics. Manufacturing techniques include impregnating open-**cell** polymer foams internally with ceramic slurry and then firing in a kiln, leaving only ceramic material. The foams may consist of several ceramic materials such as aluminium oxide, a common high-temper...
740. ...nd sintered to obtain the ceramic foam. The product’s shape and density can be controlled and manipulated with the foaming method. This method can be used in the preparation of small pore size closed **cell** ceramics. Much like metal foams, there are a number of accepted methods for creating ceramic foams. One of the earliest and still most common is the polymeric sponge method. A polymeric sponge is cov...
741. ...e as a filter for wastewater. The filtration process is a combination of adsorption, surface filtration, and deep filtration with deep filtration providing a majority of the filtration process. Close-**cell** ceramic foam serves as a good insulation material for walls and roofs. The large number of closed cells allow the material to be resistant to corrosion and absorb sound internally and externally. Bui...
742. ...ferent dose levels inducing a measurable biological response. The dose levels are prepared by dilution in a diluent that is inert in respect of the response. The experimental units can for example be **cell**-cultures, tissues, organs or living animals. The biological response may be quantal (e.g. positive/negative) or quantitative (e.g. growth). The goal is to relate the response to the dose, usually by...
743. ...ecific sets of evolutionarily conserved molecules, so called pathogen-associated molecular patterns, which include liposomes, lipopolysaccharide, molecular cages for antigens, components of bacterial **cell** walls, and endocytosed nucleic acids such as RNA, double-stranded RNA, single-stranded DNA, and unmethylated CpG dinucleotide-containing DNA. Because immune systems have evolved to recognize these sp...
744. ...n the magnitude of IgG1 response. Alum can trigger dendritic cells and other immune cells to secrete Interleukin 1 beta (IL1β), an immune signal that promotes antibody production. Alum adheres to the **cell**'s plasma membrane and rearranges certain lipids there. Spurred into action, the dendritic cells pick up the antigen and speed to lymph nodes, where they stick tightly to a helper T cell and presumabl...
745. ...dheres to the cell's plasma membrane and rearranges certain lipids there. Spurred into action, the dendritic cells pick up the antigen and speed to lymph nodes, where they stick tightly to a helper T **cell** and presumably induce an immune response. A second mechanism depends on alum killing immune cells at the injection site although researchers aren't sure exactly how alum kills these cells. It has bee...
746. ...roved Novavax Covid-19 vaccine and in the malaria vaccine R21/Matrix-M. Several unmethylated cytosine phosphoguanosine (CpG) oligonucleotides activate the TLR9 receptor that is present in a number of **cell** types of the immune system. The adjuvant CpG 1018 is used in an approved Hepatitis B vaccine. In order to understand the links between the innate immune response and the adaptive immune response to h...
747. ...developing the disease. The adjuvant of the vaccine contained vitamin E that was no more than a day's normal dietary intake. Vitamin E increases hypocretin-specific fragments that bind to DQB1*602 in **cell** culture experiments, leading to the hypothesis that autoimmunity may arise in genetically susceptible individuals, but there is no clinical data to support this hypothesis. The third AS03 ingredient...
748. ...e absence of TLR signaling. One researcher found that in the absence of MyD88 and Trif (essential adapter proteins in TLR signaling), they were still able to induce inflammatory responses, increase T **cell** activation and generate greater B cell abundancy using conventional adjuvants (alum, Freund's complete adjuvant, Freund's incomplete adjuvant, and monophosphoryl-lipid A/trehalose dicorynomycolate (R...
749. ...her found that in the absence of MyD88 and Trif (essential adapter proteins in TLR signaling), they were still able to induce inflammatory responses, increase T cell activation and generate greater B **cell** abundancy using conventional adjuvants (alum, Freund's complete adjuvant, Freund's incomplete adjuvant, and monophosphoryl-lipid A/trehalose dicorynomycolate (Ribi's adjuvant)). These observations su...
750. ...rneum. Although this is the path of shortest distance, the drugs encounter significant resistance to permeation. This resistance is caused because the drugs must cross the lipophilic membrane of each **cell**, then the hydrophilic cellular contents containing keratin, and then the phospholipid bilayer of the cell one more time. This series of steps is repeated numerous times to traverse the full thickness...
751. ...ation. This resistance is caused because the drugs must cross the lipophilic membrane of each cell, then the hydrophilic cellular contents containing keratin, and then the phospholipid bilayer of the **cell** one more time. This series of steps is repeated numerous times to traverse the full thickness of the stratum corneum. The other more common pathway through the skin is via the intercellular route. Dr...
752. ...s via tiny microchannels created by a medical micro-needling device of which there are many brands and variants. Investigations at the University of Marburg, Germany, using a standard Franz diffusion **cell** showed that this approach is efficient in enhancing skin penetration ability for lipophilic as well as hydrophilic compounds. The micro-needling approach is also seen as 'the vaccine of the future'....
753. ...ins in the molecule. Low water solubility translates to slow absorption and action. Too many hydrogen bond donors, on the other hand, lead to low fat solubility, so that the drug cannot penetrate the **cell** membrane to reach the inside of the cell. Based on one definition, a drug-like molecule has a logarithm of partition coefficient (log P) between −0.4 and 5.6, molecular weight 160–480 g/mol, molar re...
754. ...translates to slow absorption and action. Too many hydrogen bond donors, on the other hand, lead to low fat solubility, so that the drug cannot penetrate the cell membrane to reach the inside of the **cell**. Based on one definition, a drug-like molecule has a logarithm of partition coefficient (log P) between −0.4 and 5.6, molecular weight 160–480 g/mol, molar refractivity of 40–130, which is related to...
755. ...tic binding, hydrophobicity etc. These physical and chemical changes increase systemic retention of the therapeutic agent. Also, it can influence the binding affinity of the therapeutic moiety to the **cell** receptors and can alter the absorption and distribution patterns. PEGylation, by increasing the molecular weight of a molecule, can impart several significant pharmacological advantages over the unmo...
756. ...ed LNP technology. On 4 September 2020, "Nature Biotechnology" reported that Moderna had lost a key challenge in the ongoing case. PEGylation has practical uses in biotechnology for protein delivery, **cell** transfection, and gene editing in non-human cells. The first step of the PEGylation is the suitable functionalization of the PEG polymer at one or both ends. PEGs that are activated at each end with...
757. ...pC" and others. Amino acid replacements in the NADH binding site of InhA apparently result in INH resistance by preventing the inhibition of mycolic acid biosynthesis, which the bacterium uses in its **cell** wall. Mutations in the "katG" gene make the enzyme catalase peroxidase unable to convert INH to its biologically active form. Hence, INH is ineffective and the bacterium is resistant. The discovery o...
758. ...weighs approximately 40 kDa and is cut down to the size of mature SP-B in the golgi apparatus through a process called post-translational modification. ProSP-B is also created in another type of lung **cell** called a Club cell, but these cells are unable to edit proSP-B into SP-B. SP-B is a saposin-like protein, which is a group of related proteins known particularly for binding to membranes with negativ...
759. ...y 40 kDa and is cut down to the size of mature SP-B in the golgi apparatus through a process called post-translational modification. ProSP-B is also created in another type of lung cell called a Club **cell**, but these cells are unable to edit proSP-B into SP-B. SP-B is a saposin-like protein, which is a group of related proteins known particularly for binding to membranes with negative charges and facil...
760. ...at a top high school in Henan. He entered the Beijing Normal University in 1980, majoring in biology, and completed 4 years later. His undergraduate thesis supervisor, Shaobai Xue, introduced him to **cell** biology and biochemistry, and prompted him to pursue postgraduate studies in biochemistry. Through the government-sponsored Chinese-US Biochemistry Examination and Application (CUSBEA) program, the b...
761. ...tally when he was a postdoctoral fellow at the research group of Joseph L. Goldstein and Michael Stuart Brown at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Apoptosis is a form of programmed **cell** death, which is the mechanisms that cells use kill themselves. Brown and Goldstein were at the time studying the transcriptional regulation of the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor in response t...
762. ...shown to be involved in initiating apoptosis. The CPP32 protein was officially renamed caspase 3 the following year. Breakthrough came during Wang's one year at Emory University, when he developed a **cell**-free, "in vitro" system that replicated the activation of caspase 3 and the initiation of apoptosis. Using this system, his group characterized the proteins required for starting apoptosis, including...
763. ...pase-9, which in turn cleaves procaspase-3 to the active caspase 3. Apart from apoptosis, Wang also discovered the necroptosis pathway, which is the programmed form of necrosis and another way that a **cell** kills itself. He established the role of RIPK3 and the MLKL protein in necroptosis. Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland The Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland (PSI) is the statutory and professional bod...
764. ...ulsification of hydrocarbons, thus they have the potential to solubilise hydrocarbon contaminants and increase their availability for microbial degradation. In addition, biosurfactants can modify the **cell** surface of bacteria that biodegrade hydrocarbons, which can also increase the biodegradability of these pollutants to cells. These compounds can also be used in enhanced oil recovery and may be consi...
765. ..., which is an ill-defined deposit of protein and iron, created by macrophages where excess iron is present, either locally or systemically, e.g., among people with iron overload due to frequent blood **cell** destruction and the necessary transfusions their condition calls for. If systemic iron overload is corrected, over time the hemosiderin is slowly resorbed by the macrophages. Human iron homeostasis i...
766. ...uncontrolled loss of iron from epithelial sloughing, sweat, injuries and blood loss. In addition, systemic iron is continuously recycled. Cellular iron levels are controlled differently by different **cell** types due to the expression of particular iron regulatory and transport proteins. The absorption of dietary iron is a variable and dynamic process. The amount of iron absorbed compared to the amount...
767. ...b), reduces ferric Fe to Fe. A protein called divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), which can transport several divalent metals across the plasma membrane, then transports iron across the enterocyte's **cell** membrane into the cell. If the iron is bound to heme it is instead transported across the apical membrane by heme carrier protein 1 (HCP1). These intestinal lining cells can then either store the iro...
768. ...o Fe. A protein called divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), which can transport several divalent metals across the plasma membrane, then transports iron across the enterocyte's cell membrane into the **cell**. If the iron is bound to heme it is instead transported across the apical membrane by heme carrier protein 1 (HCP1). These intestinal lining cells can then either store the iron as ferritin, which is...
769. ...ier protein 1 (HCP1). These intestinal lining cells can then either store the iron as ferritin, which is accomplished by Fe binding to apoferritin (in which case the iron will leave the body when the **cell** dies and is sloughed off into feces), or the cell can release it into the body via the only known iron exporter in mammals, ferroportin. Hephaestin, a ferroxidase that can oxidize Fe to Fe and is fou...
770. ...s can then either store the iron as ferritin, which is accomplished by Fe binding to apoferritin (in which case the iron will leave the body when the cell dies and is sloughed off into feces), or the **cell** can release it into the body via the only known iron exporter in mammals, ferroportin. Hephaestin, a ferroxidase that can oxidize Fe to Fe and is found mainly in the small intestine, helps ferroporti...
771. ...n lose more. Those who cannot regulate absorption well enough get disorders of iron overload. In these diseases, the toxicity of iron starts overwhelming the body's ability to bind and store it. Most **cell** types take up iron primarily through receptor-mediated endocytosis via transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1), transferrin receptor 2 (TFR2) and GAPDH. TFR1 has a 30-fold higher affinity for transferrin-bound...
772. ...nge that causes endocytosis. Iron then enters the cytoplasm from the endosome via importer DMT1 after being reduced to its ferrous state by a STEAP family reductase. Alternatively, iron can enter the **cell** directly via plasma membrane divalent cation importers such as DMT1 and ZIP14 (Zrt-Irt-like protein 14). Again, iron enters the cytoplasm in the ferrous state after being reduced in the extracellular...
773. ...n be problematic in cases of iron overload. The ferritin storage iron pool is much larger than the labile iron pool, ranging in concentration from 0.7 mM to 3.6 mM. Iron export occurs in a variety of **cell** types, including neurons, red blood cells, macrophages and enterocytes. The latter two are especially important since systemic iron levels depend upon them. There is only one known iron exporter, fer...
774. ...ophages and enterocytes. The latter two are especially important since systemic iron levels depend upon them. There is only one known iron exporter, ferroportin. It transports ferrous iron out of the **cell**, generally aided by ceruloplasmin and/or hephaestin (mostly in enterocytes), which oxidize iron to its ferric state so it can bind ferritin in the extracellular medium. Hepcidin causes the internaliz...
775. ...e surface of iron loaded cells where it recruits apo-transferrin in close proximity to ferroportin so as to rapidly chelate the iron extruded. The expression of hepcidin, which only occurs in certain **cell** types such as hepatocytes, is tightly controlled at the transcriptional level and it represents the link between cellular and systemic iron homeostasis due to hepcidin's role as "gatekeeper" of iron...
776. ...pura (TTP) (ticlopidine and clopidogrel), thromboembolism (thalidomide and lenalidomide), liver failure (gemtuzumab and nevirapine), hypersensitivity (drug eluting coronary arterial stents), pure red-**cell** aplasia (PRCA) (epoetin), vision changes (amiodarone, sildenafil, and tadalafil), late thrombotic events (drug eluting cardiac stents), leukemia (G-CSF), and interstitial pneumonitis (gemcitabine). F...
777. ...timicrobial, antiviral, anti-inflammatory, antiparasitic, anticholesterolemic, and many other differ assays. For MTT assay and cytosolic Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release are common cytotoxicity or **cell** viability assays. A common problem that plagues drug development is obtaining a sustainable supply of the compound. Compounds isolated from invertebrates can be difficult to obtain in sufficient quan...
778. ...ible consideration for sedation in respiratory failure patients. A possible treatment for hypertension is blocking peripheral vascular seretonergic neurons or alpha-adrenergic neurons on postsynaptic **cell** sites. One study showed that benzoctamine, a serotonin and alpha-adrenergic antagonist, does not reduce blood pressure through a seretonin mechanism but does reduce blood pressure by antagonizing alp...
779. ...ed biological substance for eventual development of a drug. Monoclonal antibody technology combined with recombinant DNA technology has paved the way for tailor-made and targeted medicines. Gene- and **cell**-based therapies are emerging as new approaches. Recombinant therapeutic proteins are of a complex nature (composed of a long chain of amino acids, modified amino acids, derivatized by sugar moieties,...
780. ...(composed of a long chain of amino acids, modified amino acids, derivatized by sugar moieties, folded by complex mechanisms). These proteins are made in living cells (bacteria, yeast, animal or human **cell** lines). The ultimate characteristics of a drug containing a recombinant therapeutic protein are to a large part determined by the process through which they are produced: choice of the cell type, dev...
781. ...or human cell lines). The ultimate characteristics of a drug containing a recombinant therapeutic protein are to a large part determined by the process through which they are produced: choice of the **cell** type, development of the genetically modified cell for production, production process, purification process, formulation of the therapeutic protein into a drug. After the expiry of the patent of appr...
782. ...of a drug containing a recombinant therapeutic protein are to a large part determined by the process through which they are produced: choice of the cell type, development of the genetically modified **cell** for production, production process, purification process, formulation of the therapeutic protein into a drug. After the expiry of the patent of approved recombinant drugs (e.g., insulin, human growth...
783. ...lled biosimilars). The typical reference product has undergone numerous changes in its manufacturing processes, and such changes in the manufacturing process (ranging from a change in the supplier of **cell** culture media to new purification methods or new manufacturing sites) was substantiated with appropriate data and was approved by the EMA. The current concept of development of biosimilar monoclonal...
784. ...tions made by focusing and adjusting the lens of the microscope.  Complexity of this method is associated with electro-osmosis generated by electric field influence on the double layers of the sample **cell** walls. In the usually used closed cells, this creates Poiseuille type back flow, leading to parabolic velocity profile. There are two stationary layers, where fluid does not move. The position of the...
785. ...sed cells, this creates Poiseuille type back flow, leading to parabolic velocity profile. There are two stationary layers, where fluid does not move. The position of these stationary layers regarding **cell** walls depends on the cell geometry. It is possible to focus microscope on these stationary layers and observe particle motion that is not affected by electro-osmosis.  The second complexity comes fro...
786. ...iseuille type back flow, leading to parabolic velocity profile. There are two stationary layers, where fluid does not move. The position of these stationary layers regarding cell walls depends on the **cell** geometry. It is possible to focus microscope on these stationary layers and observe particle motion that is not affected by electro-osmosis.  The second complexity comes from necessity of diluting sa...
787. ...s theory is also required. Sample dilution is often necessary to eliminate multiple scattering of the incident laser beam and/or particle interactions. A laser beam passes through the electrophoresis **cell**, irradiates the particles dispersed in it, and is scattered by the particles. The scattered light is detected by a photo-multiplier after passing through two pinholes. There are two types of optical...
788. ...eveloped a heterodyne-type ELS instrument, that was the first instrument of this type. In a fringe optics ELS instrument, a laser beam is divided into two beams. Those cross inside the electrophresis **cell** at a fixed angle to produce a fringe pattern. The scattered light from the particles, which migrates inside the fringe, is intensity-modulated. The frequency shifts from both types of optics obey the...
789. ...40 V/cm. Figure 5 shows heterodyne power spectra obtained by Fourier transform of the autocorrelation functions shown in Fig. 4. Figure 6 shows plots of Doppler shift frequencies measured at various **cell** depth and electric field strengths, where a sample is the NaPSS solution. These parabolic curves are called profiles of electro-osmotic flow and indicate that the velocity of the particles changed at...
790. ...mple is the NaPSS solution. These parabolic curves are called profiles of electro-osmotic flow and indicate that the velocity of the particles changed at different depth. The surface potential of the **cell** wall produces electro-osmotic flow. Since the electrophoresis chamber is a closed system, backward flow is produced at the center of the cell. Then the observed mobility or velocity from Eq. (7) is a...
791. ...changed at different depth. The surface potential of the cell wall produces electro-osmotic flow. Since the electrophoresis chamber is a closed system, backward flow is produced at the center of the **cell**. Then the observed mobility or velocity from Eq. (7) is a result of the combination of osmotic flow and electrophoretic movement. Electrophoretic mobility analysis has been studied by Mori and Okamot...
792. ...mobility analysis has been studied by Mori and Okamoto [16], who have taken into account the effect of electro-osmotic flow at the side wall. The profile of velocity or mobility at the center of the **cell** is given approximately by Eq. (11) for the case where k>5. where The parabolic curve of frequency shift caused by electro-osmotic flow shown in Fig. 6 fits with Eq. (11) with application of the least...
793. .... (7), all the velocity, mobility, and frequency shifts are expressed by parabolic equations. Then the true electrophoretic mobility of a particle, the electro-osmotic mobility at the upper and lower **cell** walls, ware obtained. The frequency shift caused only by the electrophoresis of particles is equal to the apparent mobility at the stationary layer. The velocity of the electrophoretic migration thus...
794. ...by Hiroyuki Ohshima, Kunio Furusawa. 1998. K. Oka and K. Furusawa, Chapter 8　Electrophresis, p. 152 - 223. Marcel Dekker, Inc, (7) B.R. Ware and D.D. Haas, in Fast Method in Physical Biochemistry and **Cell** Biology. (R.I. Sha'afi and S.M. Fernandez, Eds), Elsevier, New York, 1983, Chap. 8. (9)  (10)  (11) K. Oka, W. Otani, K. Kameyama, M. Kidai, and T. Takagi, Appl. Theor. Electrophor. 1: 273-278 (1990)...
795. ...density of the particle; formula_11 the density of the medium; formula_12 is the acceleration due to gravity; and σ is the electrical conductivity of the bulk electrolyte solution. An improved design **cell** was developed to determine sedimentation potential, specific conductivity, volume fraction of the solids as well as pH. Two pairs of electrodes are used in this set up, one to measure potential diffe...
796. ...h can be modeled as a polyelectrolyte layer with a volume spread electric charge. This means that the notion of a surface charge is located on certain flat surfaces. This does not apply; instead, the **cell** surface is a finite thickness polyelectrolyte layer with a volume charge. At equilibrium, the relationship between these polyelectrolyte layers and a fluid bulk is called the Donnan equilibrium. The...
797. ...ure, the cells are not in an equilibrium with the fluid bulk. There is a constant ion exchange between living cells and a fluid. Consequently, there is a difference in electric potentials between the **cell** interior and a fluid bulk, known as the transmembrane potential. This non-equilibrium potential affects the structure of the double layer. Donnan potential Donnan potential is the difference in the G...
798. ...roles for DR in retrieval of fear memories in the prelimbic cortex and in discrimination learning in the nucleus accumbens. In flies, activation of the D autoreceptor protected dopamine neurons from **cell** death induced by MPP, a toxin mimicking Parkinson's disease pathology. While optimal dopamine levels favor DR cognitive stabilization, it is the DR that mediates the cognitive flexibility in humans....
799. ...have the following properties: One of the main design objectives of statin design is the selective inhibition of HMGR in the liver, as cholesterol synthesis in non-hepatic cells is needed for normal **cell** function and inhibition in non-hepatic cells could possibly be harmful. The essential structural components of all statins are a dihydroxyheptanoic acid unit and a ring system with different substitu...
800. ...AE would require less frequent administration and it could improve patient adherence with regard to pharmacotherapy. Proposed mechanisms include (1) slow recovery after reversible nonlethal damage to **cell** structures; (2) persistence of the drug at a binding site or within the periplasmic space; and (3) the need to synthesize new enzymes before growth can resume. Most antimicrobials possess significant...
801. ...session may occur in the aisle of the store, forcing pharmacists to elicit the necessary information from patients directly. IdMOC Integrated discrete Multiple Organ Culture (IdMOC) is an "in vitro", **cell** culture based experimental model for the study of intercellular communication. In conventional "in vitro" systems, each cell type is studied in isolation ignoring critical interactions between organs...
802. ...IdMOC Integrated discrete Multiple Organ Culture (IdMOC) is an "in vitro", cell culture based experimental model for the study of intercellular communication. In conventional "in vitro" systems, each **cell** type is studied in isolation ignoring critical interactions between organs or cell types. IdMOC technology is based on the concept that multiple organs signal or communicate via the systemic circulat...
803. ...ture based experimental model for the study of intercellular communication. In conventional "in vitro" systems, each cell type is studied in isolation ignoring critical interactions between organs or **cell** types. IdMOC technology is based on the concept that multiple organs signal or communicate via the systemic circulation (i.e., blood). The IdMOC plate consists of multiple inner wells within a large...
804. ...on the concept that multiple organs signal or communicate via the systemic circulation (i.e., blood). The IdMOC plate consists of multiple inner wells within a large interconnecting chamber. Multiple **cell** types are first individually seeded in the inner wells and, when required, are flooded with an overlying medium to facilitate well-to-well communication. Test material can be added to the overlying m...
805. ...lar toxicity model), and airway epithelial cells (pulmonary toxicity model) is invaluable to the drug design and discovery process. The IdMOC was patented by Dr. Albert P. Li in 2004. Ion trapping In **cell** biology, ion trapping is the build-up of a higher concentration of a chemical across a cell membrane due to the pKa value of the chemical and difference of pH across the cell membrane. This results i...
806. ...the drug design and discovery process. The IdMOC was patented by Dr. Albert P. Li in 2004. Ion trapping In cell biology, ion trapping is the build-up of a higher concentration of a chemical across a **cell** membrane due to the pKa value of the chemical and difference of pH across the cell membrane. This results in basic chemicals accumulating in acidic bodily fluids such as the cytosol, and acidic chemi...
807. ...in 2004. Ion trapping In cell biology, ion trapping is the build-up of a higher concentration of a chemical across a cell membrane due to the pKa value of the chemical and difference of pH across the **cell** membrane. This results in basic chemicals accumulating in acidic bodily fluids such as the cytosol, and acidic chemicals accumulating in basic fluids. Many cells have other mechanisms to pump a molec...
808. ...basic chemicals accumulating in acidic bodily fluids such as the cytosol, and acidic chemicals accumulating in basic fluids. Many cells have other mechanisms to pump a molecule inside or outside the **cell** against the concentration gradient, but these processes are active ones, meaning that they require enzymes and consume cellular energy. In contrast, ion trapping does not require any enzyme or energy...
809. ...t they require enzymes and consume cellular energy. In contrast, ion trapping does not require any enzyme or energy. It is similar to osmosis in that they both involve the semipermeable nature of the **cell** membrane. Cells have a more acidic pH inside the cell than outside (gastric mucosal cells being an exception). Therefore, basic drugs (like bupivacaine, pyrimethamine) are more charged inside the cel...
810. ...contrast, ion trapping does not require any enzyme or energy. It is similar to osmosis in that they both involve the semipermeable nature of the cell membrane. Cells have a more acidic pH inside the **cell** than outside (gastric mucosal cells being an exception). Therefore, basic drugs (like bupivacaine, pyrimethamine) are more charged inside the cell than outside. The cell membrane is permeable to non-...
811. ...ell membrane. Cells have a more acidic pH inside the cell than outside (gastric mucosal cells being an exception). Therefore, basic drugs (like bupivacaine, pyrimethamine) are more charged inside the **cell** than outside. The cell membrane is permeable to non-ionized (fat-soluble) molecules; ionized (water-soluble) molecules cannot cross it easily. Once a non-charged molecule of a basic chemical crosses...
812. ...e a more acidic pH inside the cell than outside (gastric mucosal cells being an exception). Therefore, basic drugs (like bupivacaine, pyrimethamine) are more charged inside the cell than outside. The **cell** membrane is permeable to non-ionized (fat-soluble) molecules; ionized (water-soluble) molecules cannot cross it easily. Once a non-charged molecule of a basic chemical crosses the cell membrane to en...
813. ...n outside. The cell membrane is permeable to non-ionized (fat-soluble) molecules; ionized (water-soluble) molecules cannot cross it easily. Once a non-charged molecule of a basic chemical crosses the **cell** membrane to enter the cell, it becomes charged due to gaining a hydrogen ion because of the lower pH inside the cell, and thus becomes unable to cross back. Because transmembrane equilibrium must be...
814. ...e is permeable to non-ionized (fat-soluble) molecules; ionized (water-soluble) molecules cannot cross it easily. Once a non-charged molecule of a basic chemical crosses the cell membrane to enter the **cell**, it becomes charged due to gaining a hydrogen ion because of the lower pH inside the cell, and thus becomes unable to cross back. Because transmembrane equilibrium must be maintained, another unioniz...
815. ...annot cross it easily. Once a non-charged molecule of a basic chemical crosses the cell membrane to enter the cell, it becomes charged due to gaining a hydrogen ion because of the lower pH inside the **cell**, and thus becomes unable to cross back. Because transmembrane equilibrium must be maintained, another unionized molecule must diffuse into the cell to repeat the process. Thus its concentration insid...
816. ...g a hydrogen ion because of the lower pH inside the cell, and thus becomes unable to cross back. Because transmembrane equilibrium must be maintained, another unionized molecule must diffuse into the **cell** to repeat the process. Thus its concentration inside the cell increases many times that of the outside. The non-charged molecules of the drug remain in equal concentration on either side of the cell...
817. ...thus becomes unable to cross back. Because transmembrane equilibrium must be maintained, another unionized molecule must diffuse into the cell to repeat the process. Thus its concentration inside the **cell** increases many times that of the outside. The non-charged molecules of the drug remain in equal concentration on either side of the cell membrane. The charge of a molecule depends upon the pH of its...
818. ...cell to repeat the process. Thus its concentration inside the cell increases many times that of the outside. The non-charged molecules of the drug remain in equal concentration on either side of the **cell** membrane. The charge of a molecule depends upon the pH of its solution. In an acidic medium, basic drugs are more charged and acidic drugs are less charged. The converse is true in a basic medium. Fo...
819. ...ssess are the following: 1) Sufficient magnetic moment to overcome drag and yield forces. 2) Superparamagnetism to prevent agglomeration and embolism. 3) Biocompatibility to prevent toxicity, enhance **cell** survival and reduce inflammatory responses. 4) Biodegradability to improve clearance from the body. 5) Capability to act as a carrier and exhibit controlled sustained release. 6) Structural stability...
820. ...lloids through electrophoresis, the motion of charged particles through a stationary liquid under the influence of an electric field. The moving-boundary electrophoresis apparatus includes a U-shaped **cell** filled with buffer solution and electrodes immersed at its ends. The sample applied could be any mixture of charged components such as a protein mixture. On applying voltage, the compounds will migra...
821. ...o the anode or cathode depending on their charges. The change in the refractive index at the boundary of the separated compounds is detected using schlieren optics at both ends of the solution in the **cell**. Maintenance dose In pharmacokinetics, a maintenance dose is the maintenance rate [mg/h] of drug administration equal to the rate of elimination at steady state. This is not to be confused with dose...
822. ...holine, and they exert these effects by binding to and activating the transient receptor potential cation channel TRPC6. Activation of TRPC6 induces the entry of calcium (Ca) and sodium (Na) into the **cell**, which causes the effect through unknown mechanism. Jeffery W. Kelly Jeffery W. Kelly (born August 23, 1960 in Medina, New York) is an American businessman and chemist who is on the faculty of the Sc...
823. ...getics” Nature 430, 101-105. 2005 Sekijima, Y., Wiseman, R.L., Matteson, J., Hammarström, P., Miller,S.R., Balch, W.E., Kelly, J.W. “Biological and Chemical Basis for Tissue Selective Amyloid Disease”**Cell** 121, 73-85. 2006 Fowler, D.M.; Koulov, A.V.; Alory-Jost, C.; Marks, M.S.; Balch, W.E; Kelly, J.W. "Functional Amyloid Formation Within Mammalian Tissue " PLoS Biology 4, 100-107. 2008 Mu, T-W.; Ong,...
824. ...Biology 4, 100-107. 2008 Mu, T-W.; Ong, D.S.T.; Wang, Y-J; Balch, W. E.; Yates, J.R.; Segatori, L.; Kelly, J.W. .”Chemical and Biological Approaches Synergize to Ameliorate Protein-Folding Diseases” **Cell** 134, 769-781. 2008 Balch, W.E.; Morimoto, R.I.; Dillin, A.; Kelly, J.W. “Adapting Proteostasis For Disease Intervention” Science 319, 916-919. 2010 Wiley; died in a car crash 2011 Culyba, E.K.; Price...
825. ...t whole-pancreas transplant done at UCLA, and he developed and first performed the experimental Type 1 diabetes-treatment known as encapsulated-human-islet transplant, and the "first pig-to-man islet-**cell** transplant in diabetic patients." After a period in private industry, he returned to UCLA in 2009, serving as a professor of microbiology, immunology, molecular genetics, and bioengineering. Soon-Shi...
826. ...ere invited by the Smithsonian to be part of the permanent exhibit "Many Voices, One Nation" in the National Museum of American History in Washington DC. By summer 2021, ImmunityBio had developed a T **cell**-inducing universal COVID-19 vaccine booster shot that had reached Phase III trials in his native South Africa, with a stated goal of completely blocking transmission and stemming an endemic tide of C...
827. ...nsmission and stemming an endemic tide of COVID-19 variants. In December 2021, Soon-Shiong shared pre-clinical results of giving two different vaccine platforms (heterologous) and showed beneficial T **cell** levels using an adenovirus and mRNA technology. In September 2021, Soon-Shiong and President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa announced via a virtual press conference a new venture called NantSA with...
828. ...is between 120 and 200 _m in diameter and can be thought of as “a balloon within a balloon.” Inside each nanocell is a chemotherapeutic drug covalently bound to a polymer, and on the surface of each **cell** is a lipid coat containing an anti-angiogenic drug. The technology makes use of the fact that a tumor's blood vessels have pores 600 _m in diameter and are much leakier than normal blood vessels, whi...
829. ...man genomics, network biology, and chemoproteomics. It is now possible to identify serious repurposing candidates by finding genes involved in a specific disease and checking if they interact, in the **cell**, with other genes which are targets of known drugs. It was shown that drugs against targets supported by human genetics are twice as likely to succeed than overall drugs in the pharmaceutical pipelin...
830. ...ge adaptor proteins such as antibodies can be used to display more binding sites, but it isn't considered a feasible solution. This method has been shown to produce 4RepCT proteins that have a higher **cell** adhesion than natural spidroin proteins and have varied antimicrobial properties. The second method, chemical modification of the silk proteins should result in the covalent attachment of several cop...
831. ...olecule or drug attached to it. Later azide functional groups were conjugated to the N-terminal of a dragline silk protein using EDC/NHS coupling, yielding glycopolymer-conjugated films with enhanced **cell** adhesion and DNA-silk chimeras with controllable micro-architectures. Armed with this, the researchers in this study investigated the incorporation of 3 L-Aha residues into 4RepCT, yielding formula_1...
832. ...level contained LB media. Their results showed a successful functionalization of the Levofloxacin decorated fiber which maintained an antibiotic persistence across a 3.5 cm radius for 120 hours and a **cell** density ~50% of other factor levels (LB media only, unfunctionalized silk, and Levofloxacin doped silk) with p ≤ 0.01. A maximum sustained release of Levofloxacin from the fiber of 5 days was achieve...
833. ...ble at the liquid-air interface of a standing solution, forming protein permeable, super strong and ultra flexible membranes. The unforced self-assembly creates a nanofibrilar membrane which supports **cell** growth. A confluent layer of human skin cells forms within three days, and would be suitable for direct delivery to a patient. As silkworm silk is potentially fatal to humans when in contact with vas...
834. ...the gut mucosa (where most GLP-1 is inactivated locally). It is also present, in soluble form, in body fluids, such as blood plasma and cerebrospinal fluid. (It also happens that DPP-4 is the CD26 T-**cell** activating antigen.) DPP-4 selectively cleaves two amino acids from peptides, such as GLP-1 and GIP, which have proline or alanine in the second position ("Figure 2"). At the active site where DPP-4...
835. ...ain a proline mimetic that occupies the S1-pocket. Large substituents on the 2-cyanopyrrolidine ring are normally not tolerated since the S1-pocket is quite small. Since DPP-4 is identical with the T-**cell** activation marker CD26 and DPP-4 inhibitors are known to inhibit T-cell proliferation, these compounds were initially thought to be potential immunomodulators. When the function against type 2 diabet...
836. ...the 2-cyanopyrrolidine ring are normally not tolerated since the S1-pocket is quite small. Since DPP-4 is identical with the T-cell activation marker CD26 and DPP-4 inhibitors are known to inhibit T-**cell** proliferation, these compounds were initially thought to be potential immunomodulators. When the function against type 2 diabetes was discovered, the cyanopyrrolidines became a highly popular researc...
837. ...ly available adjuvants. Most adjuvants on the market today mainly activate the humoral immune response (i.e. give an antibody response). There is, however, a clear need for adjuvants able to induce a **cell**-mediated immune response as well. ISCOM technology generally induces strong activation of both the cell-mediated (Th1 response) and the humoral arms (Th2 response) of the immune system. This generate...
838. ...i.e. give an antibody response). There is, however, a clear need for adjuvants able to induce a cell-mediated immune response as well. ISCOM technology generally induces strong activation of both the **cell**-mediated (Th1 response) and the humoral arms (Th2 response) of the immune system. This generates all classes and sub-classes of antibodies, as well as potent cellular responses, e.g. cytotoxic T lymp...
839. ...and sub-classes of antibodies, as well as potent cellular responses, e.g. cytotoxic T lymphocytes. This strong induction of the cellular response is one of the hallmarks of ISCOM-Matrix technology. A **cell**-mediated immune response is crucial for effective vaccination against intracellular pathogens and chronic infections. Moreover, the technology is highly efficient; its long-lasting immune responses a...
840. ...lloid particles both share the similarities in size and surface charge, the deposition of bacteria also can be describe by the DLVO theory. The prediction is based on sphere-plate interaction for one **cell** and the surface.  The electrostatic double layer interactions could be describes by the expression for the constant surface potential  formula_1 Where εis the vacuum permittivity, ε is the relative d...
841. ...t spherical radius of the bacteria, κ is the inverse of Debye length, h is the separation distance between the bacterium and the collector surface; ψ and ψ are the surface potentials of the bacterial **cell** and the collector surface. Zeta potential at the surface of the bacteria and the collector were used instead of the surface potential. The retarded Van der Waals interaction potential was calculated...
842. ...ic repulsion energy from DLVO calculation between the bacteria and surface collector, the deposition could occur due to other interactions such as the steric impact of the presence of flagella on the **cell** environment and the strong hydrophobicity of the cell. Asymmetric membrane capsule The asymmetric membrane capsule is an example of a single core osmotic delivery system, consisting of a drug-contain...
843. ...bacteria and surface collector, the deposition could occur due to other interactions such as the steric impact of the presence of flagella on the cell environment and the strong hydrophobicity of the **cell**. Asymmetric membrane capsule The asymmetric membrane capsule is an example of a single core osmotic delivery system, consisting of a drug-containing core surrounded by an asymmetric membrane made wit...
844. ..., from both square and triangular arrays occurring on crystal faces, the authors deduced the face-centered cubic close-packing of virus particles. This type of ordered array has also been observed in **cell** suspensions, where the symmetry is well adapted to the mode of reproduction of the organism. The limited content of genetic material places a restriction on the size of the protein to be coded by it....
845. ...the 7 crystal systems found in metallurgy and mineralogy (e.g. face-centered cubic, body-centered cubic, etc.). The fundamental difference in equilibrium structure is in the spatial scale of the unit **cell** (or lattice parameter) in each particular case. Molecular self-assembly is found widely in biological systems and provides the basis of a wide variety of complex biological structures. This includes...
846. ...d babies mental retardation, functional deficits, long-lasting behavioural anomalies, and lower intelligence occurs. Benzodiazepines, like many other sedative hypnotic drugs, cause apoptotic neuronal **cell** death. However, benzodiazepines do not cause as severe apoptosis to the developing brain as alcohol does. The prenatal toxicity of benzodiazepines is most likely due to their effects on neurotransmit...
847. ...er, benzodiazepines do not cause as severe apoptosis to the developing brain as alcohol does. The prenatal toxicity of benzodiazepines is most likely due to their effects on neurotransmitter systems, **cell** membranes and protein synthesis. This, however, is complicated in that neuropsychological or neuropsychiatric effects of benzodiazepines, if they occur, may not become apparent until later childhood...

=== ACTIVITY (538 occurrences) ===
1. ...content, it is possible to fail a breathalyzer test after rinsing, although breath alcohol levels return to normal after 10 minutes. In addition, alcohol is a drying agent, which encourages bacterial **activity** in the mouth, releasing more malodorous volatile sulfur compounds. Therefore, alcohol-containing mouthwash may temporarily worsen halitosis in those who already have it, or, indeed, be the sole cause...
2. ...Kabul told the press "General Franks and I have been looking at the progress that's being made in this country and have concluded that we are at a point where we clearly have moved from major combat **activity** to a period of stability and stabilization and reconstruction and activities." "I should underline however, that there are still dangers, there are still pockets of resistance in certain parts of the...
3. ...ated in rapidly growing malignant tumors). Metabolic trapping of the radioactive glucose molecule allows the PET scan to be utilized. The concentrations of imaged FDG tracer indicate tissue metabolic **activity** as it corresponds to the regional glucose uptake. FDG is used to explore the possibility of cancer spreading to other body sites (cancer metastasis). These FDG PET scans for detecting cancer metastas...
4. ...ET imaging with oxygen-15 indirectly measures blood flow to the brain. In this method, increased radioactivity signal indicates increased blood flow which is assumed to correlate with increased brain **activity**. Because of its 2-minute half-life, oxygen-15 must be piped directly from a medical cyclotron for such uses, which is difficult. PET imaging with FDG takes advantage of the fact that the brain is nor...
5. ...positive clinical diagnosis of AD pre-mortem and aid in the development of novel anti-amyloid therapies. [C]polymethylpentene (PMP) is a novel radiopharmaceutical used in PET imaging to determine the **activity** of the acetylcholinergic neurotransmitter system by acting as a substrate for acetylcholinesterase. Post-mortem examination of AD patients have shown decreased levels of acetylcholinesterase. [C]PMP...
6. ...er system by acting as a substrate for acetylcholinesterase. Post-mortem examination of AD patients have shown decreased levels of acetylcholinesterase. [C]PMP is used to map the acetylcholinesterase **activity** in the brain, which could allow for premortem diagnoses of AD and help to monitor AD treatments. Avid Radiopharmaceuticals has developed and commercialized a compound called florbetapir that uses the...
7. ...nd called florbetapir that uses the longer-lasting radionuclide fluorine-18 to detect amyloid plaques using PET scans. To examine links between specific psychological processes or disorders and brain **activity**. Numerous compounds that bind selectively to neuroreceptors of interest in biological psychiatry have been radiolabeled with C-11 or F-18. Radioligands that bind to dopamine receptors (D, D, reuptake...
8. ...e of a radiopharmaceutical bearing this radionuclide will undergo multiple half-lives of decay during the working day. This necessitates frequent recalibration of the remaining dose (determination of **activity** per unit volume) and careful planning with respect to patient scheduling. The concept of emission and transmission tomography was introduced by David E. Kuhl, Luke Chapman and Roy Edwards in the late...
9. ...f a medicinal compound could alter its medicinal properties, depending on how the alteration relates to the structure of the substrate or receptor site on which it acts: this is called the structural **activity** relationship (SAR). When a useful activity has been identified, chemists will make many similar compounds called analogues, to try to maximize the desired medicinal effect(s). This can take anywhere...
10. ...cinal properties, depending on how the alteration relates to the structure of the substrate or receptor site on which it acts: this is called the structural activity relationship (SAR). When a useful **activity** has been identified, chemists will make many similar compounds called analogues, to try to maximize the desired medicinal effect(s). This can take anywhere from a few years to a decade or more, and i...
11. ...ng approach in medicine in which drugs are activated and deactivated with light. The energy of light is used to change for shape and chemical properties of the drug, resulting in different biological **activity**. This is done to ultimately achieve control when and where drugs are active in a reversible manner, to prevent side effects and pollution of drugs into the environment. The study of chemicals require...
12. ...s no significant serotonergic effects and is therefore not a dual action drug. Bupropion has also been suggested to cause SS, although as there is no evidence that it has any significant serotonergic **activity**, it is thought unlikely to produce the syndrome. In 2006 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued an alert suggesting that the combined use of either SSRIs or SNRIs with triptan medications o...
13. ...mptoms and the half life of serotonergic medications already passed. Additional pharmacological treatment for severe case includes administering atypical antipsychotic drugs with serotonin antagonist **activity** such as olanzapine or asenapine. Critically ill people should receive the above therapies as well as sedation or neuromuscular paralysis. People who have autonomic instability such as low blood press...
14. ...ysis as it may increase the risk of cardiac dysrhythmia from hyperkalemia associated with rhabdomyolysis. Antipyretic agents are not recommended as the increase in body temperature is due to muscular **activity**, not a hypothalamic temperature set point abnormality. Upon the discontinuation of serotonergic drugs, most cases of SS resolve within 24 hours, although in some cases delirium may persist for a numb...
15. ...ced and Furka devised a "split and mix" approach In its modern form, combinatorial chemistry has probably had its biggest impact in the pharmaceutical industry. Researchers attempting to optimize the **activity** profile of a compound create a 'library' of many different but related compounds. Advances in robotics have led to an industrial approach to combinatorial synthesis, enabling companies to routinely p...
16. ...orial synthesis, when using only single starting material, it is possible to synthesize a large library of molecules using identical reaction conditions that can then be screened for their biological **activity**. This pool of products is then split into three equal portions containing each of the three products, and then each of the three individual pools is then reacted with another unit of reagent B, C, or...
17. ...ifferent size, and this process is then repeated. The beauty of this method is that the identity of each product can be known simply by its location along the thread, and the corresponding biological **activity** is identified by Fourier transformation of fluorescence signals. In most of the syntheses described here, it is necessary to attach and remove the starting reagent to/from a solid support. This can l...
18. ...ses described here, it is necessary to attach and remove the starting reagent to/from a solid support. This can lead to the generation of a hydroxyl group, which can potentially affect the biological **activity** of a target compound. Ellman uses solid phase supports in a multi-step synthesis scheme to obtain 192 individual 1,4-benzodiazepine derivatives, which are well-known therapeutic agents. To eliminate...
19. ...zed from three amino acids. After the first (A) and second (B) cycles samples were set aside before mixing them. The products of the third cycle (C) are cleaved down before mixing then are tested for **activity**. Suppose the group labeled by + sign is active. All members have the red amino acid at the last coupling position (CP). Consequently, the active member also has the red amino acid at the last CP. The...
20. ...in biochemistry, resulting in a change in pre- and postsynaptic receptor density and second messenger function. The Monoamine Theory of Depression and Anxiety, which states that the disruption of the **activity** of nitrogen containing neurotransmitters (i.e. serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine) is strongly correlated with the presence of depressive symptoms. Despite its longstanding prominence in pharmac...
21. ...of these drugs are agonists at the 5-HT receptors; this is thought to be the central component of their hallucinogenic properties. Activation of 5-HT may be particularly important for hallucinogenic **activity**. However, repeated exposure to hallucinogens leads to rapid tolerance, likely through down-regulation of these receptors in specific target cells. Research suggests that hallucinogens affect many of...
22. ...m public, as well as being the first mood stabilizer to be approved by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration.  Besides lithium, several anticonvulsants and atypical antipsychotics have mood stabilizing **activity**. The mechanism of action of mood stabilizers is not well understood. Common non-antipsychotic mood stabilizers include: A stimulant is a drug that stimulates the central nervous system, increasing ar...
23. ...ed by a super-script "JV", as in Perseid. Stimulant Stimulants (also known as central nervous system stimulants, or psychostimulants, or colloquially as uppers) are a class of drugs that increase the **activity** of the brain. They are used for various purposes, such as enhancing alertness, attention, motivation, cognition, mood, and physical performance. Some of the most common stimulants are caffeine, nicot...
24. ...by laws and policies in most countries, and requires medical supervision and prescription in some cases. A "stimulant" is an overarching term that covers many drugs including those that increase the **activity** of the central nervous system and the body, drugs that are pleasurable and invigorating, or drugs that have sympathomimetic effects. Sympathomimetic effects are those effects that mimic or copy the a...
25. ...ious modifications include substitutions on the benzene ring, as well as additions or substitutions in place of the normal carboxylate on the tropane 2 carbon. Various compound with similar structure **activity** relationships to cocaine that aren't technically analogs have been developed as well. Most stimulants exert their activating effects by enhancing catecholamine neurotransmission. Catecholamine neurot...
26. ...icated in attention, arousal, motivation, task salience and reward anticipation. Classical stimulants either block the reuptake or stimulate the efflux of these catecholamines, resulting in increased **activity** of their circuits. Some stimulants, specifically those with empathogenic and hallucinogenic effects, also affect serotonergic transmission. Some stimulants, such as some amphetamine derivatives and,...
27. ...associated with anesthesia. In chemical terms, it is an alkaloid with a phenethylamine skeleton found in various plants in the genus "Ephedra" (family Ephedraceae). It works mainly by increasing the **activity** of norepinephrine (noradrenaline) on adrenergic receptors. It is most usually marketed as the "hydrochloride" or "sulfate" salt. The herb "má huáng" ("Ephedra sinica"), used in traditional Chinese me...
28. ...g Administration (USFDA) under the trade name "Desoxyn". Recreationally, methamphetamine is used to increase sexual desire, lift the mood, and increase energy, allowing some users to engage in sexual **activity** continuously for several days straight. Methamphetamine may be sold illicitly, either as pure dextromethamphetamine or in an equal parts mixture of the right- and left-handed molecules (i.e., 50% lev...
29. ...the world for its stimulating and relaxing effects. Nicotine exerts its effects through the agonism of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, resulting in multiple downstream effects such as increase in **activity** of dopaminergic neurons in the midbrain reward system, and acetaldehyde one of the tobacco constituent decreased the expression of monoamine oxidase in the brain. Nicotine is addictive and dependence...
30. ...y with or without cataplexy. Pitolisant is the only non-controlled anti-narcoleptic drug in the US. It has shown minimal abuse risk in studies. Blocking the histamine 3 (H) autoreceptor increases the **activity** of histamine neurons in the brain. The H autoreceptors regulate histaminergic activity in the central nervous system (and to a lesser extent, the peripheral nervous system) by inhibiting histamine bi...
31. ...g in the US. It has shown minimal abuse risk in studies. Blocking the histamine 3 (H) autoreceptor increases the activity of histamine neurons in the brain. The H autoreceptors regulate histaminergic **activity** in the central nervous system (and to a lesser extent, the peripheral nervous system) by inhibiting histamine biosynthesis and release upon binding to endogenous histamine. By preventing the binding...
32. ...preventing the binding of endogenous histamine at the H, as well as producing a response opposite to that of endogenous histamine at the receptor (inverse agonism), pitolisant enhances histaminergic **activity** in the brain. Stimulants enhance the activity of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Common effects may include increased alertness, awareness, wakefulness, endurance, productivity, and motiv...
33. ...e at the H, as well as producing a response opposite to that of endogenous histamine at the receptor (inverse agonism), pitolisant enhances histaminergic activity in the brain. Stimulants enhance the **activity** of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Common effects may include increased alertness, awareness, wakefulness, endurance, productivity, and motivation, arousal, locomotion, heart rate, and bl...
34. ...s composed of the inner oblique layer, middle circular layer, and the outer longitudinal layer. Between the circular and longitudinal muscle layers is the myenteric plexus. This controls peristalsis. **Activity** is initiated by the pacemaker cells, (myenteric interstitial cells of Cajal). The gut has intrinsic peristaltic activity (basal electrical rhythm) due to its self-contained enteric nervous system. Th...
35. ...longitudinal muscle layers is the myenteric plexus. This controls peristalsis. Activity is initiated by the pacemaker cells, (myenteric interstitial cells of Cajal). The gut has intrinsic peristaltic **activity** (basal electrical rhythm) due to its self-contained enteric nervous system. The rate can be modulated by the rest of the autonomic nervous system. The coordinated contractions of these layers is call...
36. ...l enema play, heterosexually and homosexually, experiencing sexual arousal from enemas which they find gratifying or sensual and which can be an auxiliary to, or even a substitute for, genital sexual **activity**. Klismaphiles may perceive pleasure from a large, water-distended belly, or the feeling of internal pressure. An enema fetish may include sexual attraction to the involved equipment, processes, envir...
37. ...egularly or occasionally employed by some 11 percent of the females in the sample... Douches, streams of running water, vibrators, urethral insertions, enemas, other anal insertions, sado-masochistic **activity**, and still other methods were occasionally employed, but none of them in any appreciable number of cases." Besides klismaphilia, the intrinsic enjoyment of enemas, there are other uses of enemas in s...
38. ...ensitive arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reactions. It turned out that six of the fragments were hyper- and two of them were hypomethylated. Higher levels of DNA methyltransferase mRNA and enzyme **activity** were found. Kitchin (2001) proposed a model of altered growth factors which lead to cell proliferation and thus to carcinogenesis. From observations, it is known that chronic low-dose arsenic poisoni...
39. ...tion should be regarded as a toxification. Arsenic, especially +3 As, binds to single, but with higher affinity to vicinal sulfhydryl groups, thus reacts with a variety of proteins and inhibits their **activity**. It was also proposed that binding of arsenite at nonessential sites might contribute to detoxification. Arsenite inhibits members of the disulfide oxidoreductase family like glutathione reductase an...
40. ...ing regime and may be as well inversed. As shown by some experiments reviewed by Del Razo (2001), reactive oxygen species induced by low levels of inorganic arsenic increase the transcription and the **activity** of the activator protein 1 (AP-1) and the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) (maybe enhanced by elevated MAPK levels), which results in c-fos/c-jun activation, over-secretion of pro-inflammatory and growth pr...
41. ...f mutations contributing to carcinogenesis. However, high levels of inorganic arsenic inhibit NF-κB activation and cell proliferation. An experiment of Hu et al. (2002) demonstrated increased binding **activity** of AP-1 and NF-κB after acute (24 h) exposure to +3 sodium arsenite, whereas long-term exposure (10–12 weeks) yielded the opposite result. The authors conclude that the former may be interpreted as a...
42. ...s of Canada but up to 8 mg/L in parts of China; in general levels rarely exceed 10 mg/litre  Fluoride can be present in rain, with its concentration increasing significantly upon exposure to volcanic **activity** or atmospheric pollution derived from burning fossil fuels or other sorts of industry, particularly aluminium smelters. All vegetation contains some fluoride, which is absorbed from soil and water. S...
43. ...othpastes. However, no beneficial effect can be detected when more than one fluoride source is used for daily oral care. Fluoride salts are commonly used in biological assay processing to inhibit the **activity** of phosphatases, such as serine/threonine phosphatases. Fluoride mimics the nucleophilic hydroxide ion in these enzymes' active sites. Beryllium fluoride and aluminium fluoride are also used as phosp...
44. ...of which can ultimately be fatal if inhaled. Corrosive chemicals possess physical toxicity because they destroy tissues, but are not directly poisonous unless they interfere directly with biological **activity**. Water can act as a physical toxicant if taken in extremely high doses because the concentration of vital ions decreases dramatically with too much water in the body. Asphyxiant gases can be consider...
45. ...erminal half-life of THC is 25 to 36 hours, whereas for CBD it is 18 to 32 hours. CBD is hydroxylated by P450 liver enzymes into 7-OH-CBD. Its metabolites are products of primarily CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 **activity**, with potential activity of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6. Similar to delta-9-THC, a majority of CBD is excreted in feces and some in the urine. The terminal half-life is approximately 18–32 hou...
46. ...is 25 to 36 hours, whereas for CBD it is 18 to 32 hours. CBD is hydroxylated by P450 liver enzymes into 7-OH-CBD. Its metabolites are products of primarily CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 activity, with potential **activity** of CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP2C9, and CYP2D6. Similar to delta-9-THC, a majority of CBD is excreted in feces and some in the urine. The terminal half-life is approximately 18–32 hours. Smoking has been the...
47. ...Pharmaceuticals or drugs or medicines are classified into various other groups besides their origin on the basis of pharmacological properties like mode of action and their pharmacological action or **activity**, such as by chemical properties, mode or route of administration, biological system affected, or therapeutic effects. An elaborate and widely used classification system is the Anatomical Therapeutic...
48. ...hibit the growth or the metabolic activities of bacteria and other microorganisms by a chemical substance of microbial origin. Penicillin, introduced a few years later, provided a broader spectrum of **activity** compared to sulfa drugs and reduced side effects. Streptomycin, found in 1942, proved to be the first drug effective against the cause of tuberculosis and also came to be the best known of a long ser...
49. ...depressants, or the norepinephrine reuptake pumps when considering noradrenergic agents such as nortriptyline—is necessary for these medications to be effective... Depending on the level of intrinsic **activity** of a partial agonist and clinical goal, the clinician may aim for a different level of receptor occupancy. For example, aripiprazole will act as a dopamine agonist at lower concentrations, but blocks...
50. ...antipsychotics, which require only 65% to 70% D2 receptor occupancy to be effective, aripiprazole receptor binding at effective antipsychotic doses is 90% to 95%. Since aripiprazole has an intrinsic **activity** of approximately 30% (i.e., when it binds, it stimulates the D2 receptor to about 30% of the effect of dopamine binding to the receptor), binding to 90% of the receptors, and displacing endogenous do...
51. .... The atypical antipsychotics integrate with the serotonin (5-HT), norepinephrine (α, β), and dopamine (DA) receptors in order to effectively treat schizophrenia. D Receptor: Hyperactive dopaminergic **activity** on D receptors in the mesolimbic pathway is responsible for the positive symptoms of schizophrenia (hallucinations, delusions, paranoia). After taking an antipsychotic, antagonism of D receptors occu...
52. ...ntire dopamine pathway system. It's not possible to affect D receptors only in the mesolimbic pathway, but 5-HT receptor antagonism reverses these side effects to some extent. Reducing D dopaminergic **activity** in the mesolimbic pathway also results in an anhedonic effect, reducing pleasure and motivation. In the mesocortical pathway to the DLPFC and VMPFC, endogenous D receptor dopamine activity is sometim...
53. ...paminergic activity in the mesolimbic pathway also results in an anhedonic effect, reducing pleasure and motivation. In the mesocortical pathway to the DLPFC and VMPFC, endogenous D receptor dopamine **activity** is sometimes low in schizophrenia, resulting in cognitive, affective, and, broadly, the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. D receptor antagonism further compounds these problems. In the nigrostriata...
54. ...and reduced. Furthermore, 5-HT receptor antagonism blocks the serotonergic excitation of cortical pyramidal cells, reducing glutamate release, which in turn lowers hyperactive dopaminergic D receptor **activity** in the mesolimbic pathway, reducing or eliminating the positive symptoms of schizophrenia. Brexpiprazole, approved by the US FDA in 2015, has a similar binding profile to aripiprazole as a partial D2...
55. ...pathway from 5-HT antagonism, which is seen in atypical antipsychotics), or the positive mood, mood stabilization, and cognitive improvement effect resulting from atypical antipsychotic serotonergic **activity** is greater for the overall quality of life effect of an atypical antipsychotic is a question that is variable between individual experience and the atypical antipsychotic(s) being used. Inhibition. D...
56. ...ssemia. Iron is actually excreted in urine and is also concentrated in bile which is excreted in feces. Ceruloplasmin is the major copper-carrying protein in the blood. Ceruloplasmin exhibits oxidase **activity**, which is associated with possible oxidation of Fe(II) into Fe(III), therefore assisting in its transport in the blood plasma in association with transferrin, which can carry iron only in the Fe(III)...
57. ...istidine residues. This enzyme also contains zinc ions for stabilization and is activated by copper chaperone for superoxide dismutase (CCS). Other isozymes may contain iron, manganese or nickel. The **activity** of Ni-SOD involves nickel(III), an unusual oxidation state for this element. The active site nickel geometry cycles from square planar Ni(II), with thiolate (Cys and Cys) and backbone nitrogen (His a...
58. .... It contains a magnesium enclosed in a chlorin ring. However, the magnesium ion is not directly involved in the photosynthetic function and can be replaced by other divalent ions with little loss of **activity**. Rather, the photon is absorbed by the chlorin ring, whose electronic structure is well-adapted for this purpose. Initially, the absorption of a photon causes an electron to be excited into a singlet...
59. ...n have no authorized medical use. The 2005 case of "Gonzales v. Raich" challenged the CSA by claiming that simple cultivation of marijuana plants fell outside of Congress's power to regulate economic **activity** through its Commerce Clause powers. While initially successful in the Ninth Circuit, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down this argument. The Court found that personal cultivation of marijuana fell with...
60. ..., the U.S. Supreme Court struck down this argument. The Court found that personal cultivation of marijuana fell within the scope of federal regulation by employing an expansive definition of economic **activity**, a definition described as "breathtaking" by Justice O'Connor in her dissent because it "threatens to sweep all of productive human activity into federal regulatory reach." However, in the majority o...
61. ...egulation by employing an expansive definition of economic activity, a definition described as "breathtaking" by Justice O'Connor in her dissent because it "threatens to sweep all of productive human **activity** into federal regulatory reach." However, in the majority opinion Justice Stevens expressed, though denying them support at that time, that he hoped "the voices of voters allied with these respondents...
62. ...use sanctioning this application of Congress's CSA "extinguishes that experiment, without any proof that the personal cultivation, possession, and use of marijuana for medicinal purposes, if economic **activity** in the first place, has a substantial effect on interstate commerce and is therefore an appropriate subject of federal regulation." Despite the dissent's favorable attitude toward state medical marij...
63. ...thermodynamics and kinetics in catalytic systems where surfaces can exist in a range of coordination structures, and it has been successfully applied to bimetallic catalytic systems where synergistic **activity** is observed. In contrast to pure spillover, portal site adsorption refers to surface diffusion to adjacent adsorption sites, not to non-adsorptive support surfaces. The model appears to have been fir...
64. ...out like water-based lubricants, and has a distinctive "feel", different from that of K-Y and related methylcellulose products. However, it is not recommended for use with latex condoms during sexual **activity**, as it increases the chance of rupture. In addition, petroleum jelly is difficult for the body to break down naturally, and may cause vaginal health problems when used for intercourse. Petroleum jell...
65. ...he first blood flow maps of the brain, which initially involved xenon-133 inhalation; an intra-arterial equivalent was developed soon after, enabling measurement of the local distribution of cerebral **activity** for patients with neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. Later versions would have 254 scintillators so a two-dimensional image could be produced on a color monitor. It allowed them to con...
66. ...ia are capable of sequestering and storing some of that Ca. It has been estimated that mitochondrial matrix free calcium concentration rises to the tens of micromolar levels "in situ" during neuronal **activity**. The effects of calcium on human cells are specific, meaning that different types of cells respond in different ways. However, in certain circumstances, its action may be more general. Ca ions are on...
67. ...cell membranes. Mg ions close certain types of calcium channels, which conduct positively charged calcium ions into neurons. With an excess of magnesium, more channels will be blocked and nerve cells **activity** will decrease. Intravenous magnesium sulphate is used in treating pre-eclampsia. For other than pregnancy-related hypertension, a meta-analysis of 22 clinical trials with dose ranges of 120 to 973 mg...
68. ...s contain large amounts of Mg and the stabilisation provided is essential to the complexation of this ribo-protein. A large number of enzymes involved in the biochemistry of nucleic acids bind Mg for **activity**, using the ion for both activation and catalysis. Finally, the autocatalysis of many ribozymes (enzymes containing only RNA) is Mg dependent (e.g. the yeast mitochondrial group II self splicing intro...
69. ...blockage of K uptake and the subsequent acidification of the chloroplast stroma. The Mg ion tends to bind only weakly to proteins ("K" ≤ 10) and this can be exploited by the cell to switch enzymatic **activity** on and off by changes in the local concentration of Mg. Although the concentration of free cytoplasmic Mg is on the order of 1 mmol/L, the total Mg content of animal cells is 30 mmol/L and in plants...
70. ...ATP), but also, what is more important, it is buffered by storage of Mg in intracellular compartments. The transport of Mg between intracellular compartments may be a major part of regulating enzyme **activity**. The interaction of Mg with proteins must also be considered for the transport of the ion across biological membranes. In biological systems, only manganese (Mn) is readily capable of replacing Mg, b...
71. ...exation. Mn effectively binds ATP and allows hydrolysis of the energy molecule by most ATPases. Mn can also replace Mg as the activating ion for a number of Mg-dependent enzymes, although some enzyme **activity** is usually lost. Sometimes such enzyme metal preferences vary among closely related species: For example, the reverse transcriptase enzyme of lentiviruses like HIV, SIV and FIV is typically dependent...
72. ...de) across this membrane or by symport with H ions. To transport the Mg ion into the vacuole requires a Mg/H antiport transporter (such as AtMHX). The H-ATPases are dependent on Mg (bound to ATP) for **activity**, so that Mg is required to maintain its own homeostasis. A schematic of a plant cell is shown including the four major compartments currently recognised as interacting with Mg. H-ATPases maintain a c...
73. ...the stroma during the light phase can be identified. Firstly, enzymes in the glycolytic pathway most often interact with two atoms of Mg. The first atom is as an allosteric modulator of the enzymes' **activity**, while the second forms part of the active site and is directly involved in the catalytic reaction. The second class of enzymes includes those where the Mg is complexed to nucleotide di- and tri-phos...
74. ...notable cases of an absence of quality control during herbal product preparation. There is a lack of high-quality scientific research on herbology practices and product effectiveness for anti-disease **activity**. In the herbal sources listed below, there is little or no evidence for efficacy or proof of safety across consumer age groups and disease conditions for which they are intended. There are over 300 h...
75. ...ith all living things, phosphorus is part of the Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which is of immediate use in all processes that require energy with the cells. Phosphorus can also be used to modify the **activity** of various enzymes by phosphorylation, and is used for cell signaling. Phosphorus is concentrated at the most actively growing points of a plant and stored within seeds in anticipation of their germi...
76. ...sium does not enter into the composition of any of the important plant constituents involved in metabolism, but it does occur in all parts of plants in substantial amounts. It is essential for enzyme **activity** including enzymes involved in primary metabolism. It plays a role in turgor regulation, effecting the functioning of the stomata and cell volume growth. It seems to be of particular importance in lea...
77. ...for the reduction of nitrate) and the nitrogenase enzyme (required for biological nitrogen fixation). Reduced productivity as a result of molybdenum deficiency is usually associated with the reduced **activity** of one or more of these enzymes. Boron has many functions in a plant: it affects flowering and fruiting, pollen germination, cell division, and active salt absorption. The metabolism of amino acids a...
78. ...olyunsaturated compounds that would be expected to have negative impacts for integrity of the plant membrane, that could effect some properties like its permeability, and is needed for the ion uptake **activity** of the root membranes. Potassium deficiency may cause necrosis or interveinal chlorosis. Deficiency may result in higher risk of pathogens, wilting, chlorosis, brown spotting, and higher chances of d...
79. ...ious herbal products to authenticate their contents, safety or efficacy, and there is generally an absence of high-quality scientific research on product composition or effectiveness for anti-disease **activity**. Presumed claims of therapeutic benefit from herbal products, without rigorous evidence of efficacy and safety, receive skeptical views by scientists. Unethical practices by some herbalists and manuf...
80. ...rotein or disrupt protein–protein interactions. Pharmacology usually restricts the term "small molecule" to molecules that bind specific biological macromolecules and act as an effector, altering the **activity** or function of the target. Small molecules can have a variety of biological functions or applications, serving as cell signaling molecules, drugs in medicine, pesticides in farming, and in many other...
81. ...ntain a hormesis relationship with oxygen, which follows a hormetic curve similar to carbon monoxide: Physical exercise intensity may exhibit a hormetic curve. Individuals with low levels of physical **activity** are at risk for some diseases; however, individuals engaged in moderate, regular exercise may experience less disease risk. The possible effect of small amounts of oxidative stress is under laborator...
82. ...for therapeutic effect, they are sometimes used to reduce drug side effects so that patients may enjoy a more normal life for a period of time such as a weekend or holiday, or engage in a particular **activity**. For example, it is common for patients using SSRI anti-depressant therapies to take a drug holiday to reduce or avoid side effects associated with sexual dysfunction. In the treatment of mental illn...
83. .... Systematic investigations of the effect of structural changes on potency and duration of action led to the discovery of phenobarbital at Bayer in 1911 and the discovery of its potent anti-epileptic **activity** in 1912. Phenobarbital was among the most widely used drugs for the treatment of epilepsy through the 1970s, and as of 2014, remains on the World Health Organizations list of essential medications. T...
84. ...re skin ulceration, neurological damage, and death. Ehrlich's approach of systematically varying the chemical structure of synthetic compounds and measuring the effects of these changes on biological **activity** was pursued broadly by industrial scientists, including Bayer scientists Josef Klarer, Fritz Mietzsch, and Gerhard Domagk. This work, also based on the testing of compounds available from the German...
85. ...om the German dye industry, led to the development of Prontosil, the first representative of the sulfonamide class of antibiotics. Compared to arsphenamine, the sulfonamides had a broader spectrum of **activity** and were far less toxic, rendering them useful for infections caused by pathogens such as streptococci. In 1939, Domagk received the Nobel Prize in Medicine for this discovery. Nonetheless, the drama...
86. ...interactions of the drug molecule with biological macromolecules, (proteins or nucleic acids in most cases) led scientists to the conclusion that individual chemicals are required for the biological **activity** of the drug. This made for the beginning of the modern era in pharmacology, as pure chemicals, instead of crude extracts of medicinal plants, became the standard drugs. Examples of drug compounds iso...
87. ...mistry also led to the synthesis of many of the natural products isolated from biological sources. Historically, substances, whether crude extracts or purified chemicals, were screened for biological **activity** without knowledge of the biological target. Only after an active substance was identified was an effort made to identify the target. This approach is known as classical pharmacology, forward pharmaco...
88. ..."pan-assay interference compounds", are removed at this stage, if they were not already removed from the chemical library. It is often observed that several compounds are found to have some degree of **activity**, and if these compounds share common chemical features, one or more pharmacophores can then be developed. At this point, medicinal chemists will attempt to use structure–activity relationships (SAR)...
89. ...have some degree of activity, and if these compounds share common chemical features, one or more pharmacophores can then be developed. At this point, medicinal chemists will attempt to use structure–**activity** relationships (SAR) to improve certain features of the lead compound: This process will require several iterative screening runs, during which, it is hoped, the properties of the new molecular entiti...
90. ...eral iterative screening runs, during which, it is hoped, the properties of the new molecular entities will improve, and allow the favoured compounds to go forward to in vitro and in vivo testing for **activity** in the disease model of choice. Amongst the physicochemical properties associated with drug absorption include ionization (pKa), and solubility; permeability can be determined by PAMPA and Caco-2. PA...
91. ...ound, while the other will be designated as the "backup". These decisions are generally supported by computational modelling innovations. Traditionally, many drugs and other chemicals with biological **activity** have been discovered by studying chemicals that organisms create to affect the activity of other organisms for survival. Despite the rise of combinatorial chemistry as an integral part of lead discov...
92. ...supported by computational modelling innovations. Traditionally, many drugs and other chemicals with biological activity have been discovered by studying chemicals that organisms create to affect the **activity** of other organisms for survival. Despite the rise of combinatorial chemistry as an integral part of lead discovery process, natural products still play a major role as starting material for drug disc...
93. ...ten botanical) knowledge is often used to identify families that show promise. This approach is effective because only a small part of the earth's biodiversity has ever been tested for pharmaceutical **activity**. Also, organisms living in a species-rich environment need to evolve defensive and competitive mechanisms to survive. Those mechanisms might be exploited in the development of beneficial drugs. A col...
94. ...y is the screening for antitumor agents by the National Cancer Institute, which started in the 1960s. Paclitaxel was identified from Pacific yew tree "Taxus brevifolia". Paclitaxel showed anti-tumour **activity** by a previously undescribed mechanism (stabilization of microtubules) and is now approved for clinical use for the treatment of lung, breast, and ovarian cancer, as well as for Kaposi's sarcoma. Earl...
95. ...arning has become more advanced, virtual screening is now an option for drug developers. AI algorithms are being used to perform virtual screening of chemical compounds, which involves predicting the **activity** of a compound against a specific target. By using machine learning algorithms to analyse large amounts of chemical data, researchers can identify potential new drug candidates that are more likely to...
96. ...e. Algorithms, such as Nearest-Neighbour classifiers, RF, extreme learning machines, SVMs, and deep neural networks (DNNs), are used for VS based on synthesis feasibility and can also predict in vivo **activity** and toxicity. The elucidation of the chemical structure is critical to avoid the re-discovery of a chemical agent that is already known for its structure and chemical activity. Mass spectrometry is a...
97. ...an also predict in vivo activity and toxicity. The elucidation of the chemical structure is critical to avoid the re-discovery of a chemical agent that is already known for its structure and chemical **activity**. Mass spectrometry is a method in which individual compounds are identified based on their mass/charge ratio, after ionization. Chemical compounds exist in nature as mixtures, so the combination of l...
98. ...d such fields as environmental science and pharmacology, where chemical processes are involved or studied. Cheminformatics has been an active field in various guises since the 1970s and earlier, with **activity** in academic departments and commercial pharmaceutical research and development departments. The term chemoinformatics was defined in its application to drug discovery by F.K. Brown in 1998:Chemoinfor...
99. ...reening involves computationally screening "in silico" libraries of compounds, by means of various methods such as docking, to identify members likely to possess desired properties such as biological **activity** against a given target. In some cases, combinatorial chemistry is used in the development of the library to increase the efficiency in mining the chemical space. More commonly, a diverse library of s...
100. ...library to increase the efficiency in mining the chemical space. More commonly, a diverse library of small molecules or natural products is screened. This is the calculation of quantitative structure–**activity** relationship and quantitative structure property relationship values, used to predict the activity of compounds from their structures. In this context there is also a strong relationship to chemometr...
101. ...f small molecules or natural products is screened. This is the calculation of quantitative structure–activity relationship and quantitative structure property relationship values, used to predict the **activity** of compounds from their structures. In this context there is also a strong relationship to chemometrics. Chemical expert systems are also relevant, since they represent parts of chemical knowledge as...
102. ...emical knowledge as an "in silico" representation. There is a relatively new concept of matched molecular pair analysis or prediction-driven MMPA which is coupled with QSAR model in order to identify **activity** cliff. Research chemical Research chemicals are chemical substances scientists use for medical and scientific research purposes. One characteristic of a research chemical is that it is for laboratory...
103. ...n-drug dependent individuals, and the development of drug dependence involves the gradual incorporation of the drug effects and the need to sustain these effects into the defensive structure-building **activity** of the ego itself. The addict's choice of drug is a result of the interaction between the psychopharmacologic properties of the drug and the affective states from which the addict was seeking relief....
104. ...olecules, natural products, or extracts within chemical libraries to pinpoint substances exhibiting beneficial therapeutic effects. This method is to first discover the in vivo or in vitro functional **activity** of drugs (such as extract drugs or natural products), and then perform target identification. Phenotypic discovery uses a practical and target-independent approach to generate initial leads, aiming t...
105. ...se linkage studies that show an association between mutations in the biological target and certain disease states. The second is that the target is capable of binding to a small molecule and that its **activity** can be modulated by the small molecule. Once a suitable target has been identified, the target is normally cloned and produced and purified. The purified protein is then used to establish a screening...
106. ...must be simultaneously optimized during the design process, multi-objective optimization techniques are sometimes employed. Finally because of the limitations in the current methods for prediction of **activity**, drug design is still very much reliant on serendipity and bounded rationality. The most fundamental goal in drug design is to predict whether a given molecule will bind to a target and if so how str...
107. ...get may be built based on the knowledge of what binds to it, and this model in turn may be used to design new molecular entities that interact with the target. Alternatively, a quantitative structure-**activity** relationship (QSAR), in which a correlation between calculated properties of molecules and their experimentally determined biological activity, may be derived. These QSAR relationships in turn may be...
108. ...with the target. Alternatively, a quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR), in which a correlation between calculated properties of molecules and their experimentally determined biological **activity**, may be derived. These QSAR relationships in turn may be used to predict the activity of new analogs. Structure-based drug design (or "direct drug design") relies on knowledge of the three dimensiona...
109. ...in which a correlation between calculated properties of molecules and their experimentally determined biological activity, may be derived. These QSAR relationships in turn may be used to predict the **activity** of new analogs. Structure-based drug design (or "direct drug design") relies on knowledge of the three dimensional structure of the biological target obtained through methods such as x-ray crystallog...
110. ...nt from natural origin is bioassay-guided fractionation, meaning step-by-step separation of extracted components based on differences in their physicochemical properties, and assessing the biological **activity**, followed by next round of separation and assaying. Typically, such work is initiated after a given crude drug formulation (typically prepared by solvent extraction of the natural material) is deemed...
111. ...is deemed "active" in a particular "in vitro" assay. If the end-goal of the work at hand is to identify which one(s) of the scores or hundreds of compounds are responsible for the observed "in vitro" **activity**, the path to that end is fairly straightforward: "In vitro" activity does not necessarily translate to biological activity in humans or other living systems. In the past, in some countries in Asia an...
112. ...of the work at hand is to identify which one(s) of the scores or hundreds of compounds are responsible for the observed "in vitro" activity, the path to that end is fairly straightforward: "In vitro" **activity** does not necessarily translate to biological activity in humans or other living systems. In the past, in some countries in Asia and Africa, up to 80% of the population may rely on traditional medicin...
113. ...scores or hundreds of compounds are responsible for the observed "in vitro" activity, the path to that end is fairly straightforward: "In vitro" activity does not necessarily translate to biological **activity** in humans or other living systems. In the past, in some countries in Asia and Africa, up to 80% of the population may rely on traditional medicine (including herbal medicine) for primary health care....
114. ...larial group of drugs called artemisinin isolated from "Artemisia annua" herb, a herb that was known in Chinese medicine to treat fever. However, it was found that its plant extracts had antimalarial **activity**, leading to the Nobel Prize winning discovery of artemisinin. Microscopic evaluation is essential for the initial identification of herbs, identifying small fragments of crude or powdered herbs, iden...
115. ...s in adults with and without ADHD. The paradoxical effect or Eagle effect (named after Harry Eagle, who first described it) refers to an observation of an increase in survivors, seen when testing the **activity** of an antimicrobial agent. Initially when an antibiotic agent is added to a culture media, the number of bacteria that survive drops, as one would expect. But after increasing the concentration beyon...
116. ...their effects by binding to the active site or to the allosteric site on a receptor, or they may interact at unique binding sites not normally involved in the biological regulation of the receptor's **activity**. Antagonist activity may be reversible or irreversible depending on the longevity of the antagonist–receptor complex, which, in turn, depends on the nature of antagonist–receptor binding. The majorit...
117. ...ding to the active site or to the allosteric site on a receptor, or they may interact at unique binding sites not normally involved in the biological regulation of the receptor's activity. Antagonist **activity** may be reversible or irreversible depending on the longevity of the antagonist–receptor complex, which, in turn, depends on the nature of antagonist–receptor binding. The majority of drug antagonists...
118. ...called the binding site on the receptor. A receptor may contain one or more binding sites for different ligands. Binding to the active site on the receptor regulates receptor activation directly. The **activity** of receptors can also be regulated by the binding of a ligand to other sites on the receptor, as in allosteric binding sites. Antagonists mediate their effects through receptor interactions by preven...
119. ...e accomplished by binding to the active site or the allosteric site. In addition, antagonists may interact at unique binding sites not normally involved in the biological regulation of the receptor's **activity** to exert their effects. The term "antagonist" was originally coined to describe different profiles of drug effects. The biochemical definition of a receptor antagonist was introduced by Ariens and St...
120. ...agonists, inverse agonists, and partial agonists. In functional antagonist assays, a dose-response curve measures the effect of the ability of a range of concentrations of antagonists to reverse the **activity** of an agonist. The potency of an antagonist is usually defined by its "half maximal inhibitory concentration" (i.e., IC value). This can be calculated for a given antagonist by determining the concen...
121. ...f drugs may be associated with fewer side-effects. The affinity of an antagonist for its binding site (K), i.e. its ability to bind to a receptor, will determine the duration of inhibition of agonist **activity**. The affinity of an antagonist can be determined experimentally using Schild regression or for competitive antagonists in radioligand binding studies using the Cheng-Prusoff equation. Schild regressi...
122. ...antagonist will block agonist binding. Sufficient concentrations of an antagonist will displace the agonist from the binding sites, resulting in a lower frequency of receptor activation. The level of **activity** of the receptor will be determined by the relative affinity of each molecule for the site and their relative concentrations. High concentrations of a competitive agonist will increase the proportion...
123. ...ssays using competitive antagonists, a parallel rightward shift of agonist dose–response curves with no alteration of the maximal response is observed. Competitive antagonists are used to prevent the **activity** of drugs, and to reverse the effects of drugs that have already been consumed. Naloxone (also known as Narcan) is used to reverse opioid overdose caused by drugs such as heroin or morphine. Similarly...
124. ...gonist". Memantine, used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, is an uncompetitive antagonist of the NMDA receptor. Silent antagonists are competitive receptor antagonists that have zero intrinsic **activity** for activating a receptor. They are true antagonists, so to speak. The term was created to distinguish fully inactive antagonists from weak partial agonists or inverse agonists. Partial agonists are...
125. ...or activation as compared to that observed with the full agonist alone. Clinically, their usefulness is derived from their ability to enhance deficient systems while simultaneously blocking excessive **activity**. Exposing a receptor to a high level of a partial agonist will ensure that it has a constant, weak level of activity, whether its normal agonist is present at high or low levels. In addition, it has...
126. ...their ability to enhance deficient systems while simultaneously blocking excessive activity. Exposing a receptor to a high level of a partial agonist will ensure that it has a constant, weak level of **activity**, whether its normal agonist is present at high or low levels. In addition, it has been suggested that partial agonism prevents the adaptive regulatory mechanisms that frequently develop after repeate...
127. ...latory mechanisms that frequently develop after repeated exposure to potent full agonists or antagonists. E.g. Buprenorphine, a partial agonist of the μ-opioid receptor, binds with weak morphine-like **activity** and is used clinically as an analgesic in pain management and as an alternative to methadone in the treatment of opioid dependence. An inverse agonist can have effects similar to those of an antagoni...
128. ...e. An inverse agonist can have effects similar to those of an antagonist, but causes a distinct set of downstream biological responses. Constitutively active receptors that exhibit intrinsic or basal **activity** can have inverse agonists, which not only block the effects of binding agonists like a classical antagonist but also inhibit the basal activity of the receptor. Many drugs previously classified as an...
129. ...tively active receptors that exhibit intrinsic or basal activity can have inverse agonists, which not only block the effects of binding agonists like a classical antagonist but also inhibit the basal **activity** of the receptor. Many drugs previously classified as antagonists are now beginning to be reclassified as inverse agonists because of the discovery of constitutive active receptors. Antihistamines, or...
130. ...n-competitive antagonists. A washout step in the assay will usually distinguish between non-competitive and irreversible antagonist drugs, as effects of non-competitive antagonists are reversible and **activity** of agonist will be restored. Irreversible competitive antagonists also involve competition between the agonist and antagonist of the receptor, but the rate of covalent bonding differs and depends on...
131. ...only one of several mechanisms leading to tolerance. Behavioral tolerance occurs with the use of certain psychoactive drugs, where tolerance to a behavioral effect of a drug, such as increased motor **activity** by methamphetamine, occurs with repeated use. It may occur through drug-independent learning or as a form of pharmacodynamic tolerance in the brain; the former mechanism of behavioral tolerance occur...
132. ...law enforcement (scientific police), bromatology, drug marketing, regulatory authorities, university teachers, etc. The Pharmacists can also choose to become a specialist in one of following areas of **activity**: Pharmaceutical Industry, Regulatory Affairs, Hospital Pharmacy, and Clinical Analysis. Each specialization requires an additional 5-year professional study program guided by a tutor in the respectiv...
133. ...as they denote a P450 in family number 450). However, some gene or enzyme names for P450s are also referred to by historical names (e.g. P450 for CYP102A1) or functional names, denoting the catalytic **activity** and the name of the compound used as substrate. Examples include CYP5A1, thromboxane A synthase, abbreviated to TBXAS1 (ThromBoXane A Synthase 1), and CYP51A1, lanosterol 14-α-demethylase, sometimes...
134. ...romboxane A synthase, abbreviated to TBXAS1 (ThromBoXane A Synthase 1), and CYP51A1, lanosterol 14-α-demethylase, sometimes unofficially abbreviated to LDM according to its substrate (Lanosterol) and **activity** (DeMethylation). The current nomenclature guidelines suggest that members of new CYP families share at least 40% amino-acid identity, while members of subfamilies must share at least 55% amino-acid i...
135. ...h which drugs can interact: "NMBD = neuromuscular blocking drugs; NMDA = N-methyl-d-aspartate; EGF = epidermal growth factor." The majority of drugs either  There are 7 main drug actions: The desired **activity** of a drug is mainly due to successful targeting of one of the following: General anesthetics were once thought to work by disordering the neural membranes, thereby altering the Na influx. Antacids an...
136. ...hereby preventing inflammatory response. Colchicine, a drug for gout, interferes with the function of the structural protein tubulin, while digitalis, a drug still used in heart failure, inhibits the **activity** of the carrier molecule, Na-K-ATPase pump. The widest class of drugs act as ligands that bind to receptors that determine cellular effects. Upon drug binding, receptors can elicit their normal action...
137. ...Taking a more sophisticated approach, receptor reserve is an integrative measure of the response-inducing capacity of an agonist (in some receptor models it is termed intrinsic efficacy or intrinsic **activity**) and of the signal amplification capacity of the corresponding receptor (and its downstream signaling pathways). Thus, the existence (and magnitude) of receptor reserve depends on the agonist (effica...
138. ...nds activating peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma as partial agonists are honokiol and falcarindiol. Delta 9-tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV) is a partial agonist at CB2 receptors and this **activity** might be implicated in ∆9-THCV-mediated anti-inflammatory effects. Additionally, Delta-9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is a partial agonist at both the CB1 and CB2 receptors, with the former being respo...
139. ...represents the concentration of solute A being tested, and "org" and "aq" refer to the organic and aqueous phases respectively. The IUPAC further recommends "partition ratio" for cases where transfer **activity** coefficients can be determined, and "distribution ratio" for the ratio of total analytical concentrations of a solute between phases, regardless of chemical form. The partition coefficient, abbreviat...
140. ...London. As of 2021, the firm has 30 offices across 20 countries throughout Asia, the Middle East, North America, South America, and Europe. Notable alumni of the firm include: Quantitative structure–**activity** relationship Quantitative structure–activity relationship models (QSAR models) are regression or classification models used in the chemical and biological sciences and engineering. Like other regress...
141. ...across 20 countries throughout Asia, the Middle East, North America, South America, and Europe. Notable alumni of the firm include: Quantitative structure–activity relationship Quantitative structure–**activity** relationship models (QSAR models) are regression or classification models used in the chemical and biological sciences and engineering. Like other regression models, QSAR regression models relate a s...
142. ...e of the response variable. In QSAR modeling, the predictors consist of physico-chemical properties or theoretical molecular descriptors of chemicals; the QSAR response-variable could be a biological **activity** of the chemicals. QSAR models first summarize a supposed relationship between chemical structures and biological activity in a data-set of chemicals. Second, QSAR models predict the activities of new...
143. ...ar descriptors of chemicals; the QSAR response-variable could be a biological activity of the chemicals. QSAR models first summarize a supposed relationship between chemical structures and biological **activity** in a data-set of chemicals. Second, QSAR models predict the activities of new chemicals. Related terms include "quantitative structure–property relationships" ("QSPR") when a chemical property is mod...
144. ...structure–toxicity relationships (QSTRs), quantitative structure–electrochemistry relationships (QSERs), and quantitative structure–biodegradability relationships (QSBRs)." As an example, biological **activity** can be expressed quantitatively as the concentration of a substance required to give a certain biological response. Additionally, when physicochemical properties or structures are expressed by number...
145. ...quired to give a certain biological response. Additionally, when physicochemical properties or structures are expressed by numbers, one can find a mathematical relationship, or quantitative structure-**activity** relationship, between the two. The mathematical expression, if carefully validated, can then be used to predict the modeled response of other chemical structures. A QSAR has the form of a mathematica...
146. ...rect model. The principal steps of QSAR/QSPR include: The basic assumption for all molecule-based hypotheses is that similar molecules have similar activities. This principle is also called Structure–**Activity** Relationship (SAR). The underlying problem is therefore how to define a "small" difference on a molecular level, since each kind of activity, e.g. reaction ability, biotransformation ability, solubil...
147. ...imilar activities. This principle is also called Structure–Activity Relationship (SAR). The underlying problem is therefore how to define a "small" difference on a molecular level, since each kind of **activity**, e.g. reaction ability, biotransformation ability, solubility, target activity, and so on, might depend on another difference. Examples were given in the bioisosterism reviews by Patanie/LaVoie and B...
148. ...p (SAR). The underlying problem is therefore how to define a "small" difference on a molecular level, since each kind of activity, e.g. reaction ability, biotransformation ability, solubility, target **activity**, and so on, might depend on another difference. Examples were given in the bioisosterism reviews by Patanie/LaVoie and Brown. In general, one is more interested in finding strong trends. Created hypo...
149. ...chemical rules in case of non-congeneric sets. GQSAR also considers cross-terms fragment descriptors, which could be helpful in identification of key fragment interactions in determining variation of **activity**. Lead discovery using fragnomics is an emerging paradigm. In this context FB-QSAR proves to be a promising strategy for fragment library design and in fragment-to-lead identification endeavours. An a...
150. ...QSAR based on the concept of pharmacophore-similarity is developed. This method, pharmacophore-similarity-based QSAR (PS-QSAR) uses topological pharmacophoric descriptors to develop QSAR models. This **activity** prediction may assist the contribution of certain pharmacophore features encoded by respective fragments toward activity improvement and/or detrimental effects. The acronym 3D-QSAR or 3-D QSAR refers...
151. ...QSAR) uses topological pharmacophoric descriptors to develop QSAR models. This activity prediction may assist the contribution of certain pharmacophore features encoded by respective fragments toward **activity** improvement and/or detrimental effects. The acronym 3D-QSAR or 3-D QSAR refers to the application of force field calculations requiring three-dimensional structures of a given set of small molecules...
152. ...ultiple-instance learning by encoding molecules as sets of data instances, each of which represents a possible molecular conformation. A label or response is assigned to each set corresponding to the **activity** of the molecule, which is assumed to be determined by at least one instance in the set (i.e. some conformation of the molecule). On June 18, 2011 the Comparative Molecular Field Analysis (CoMFA) pate...
153. ...ties (e.g., energies, geometric parameters) rather than from 3D fields. An example of this approach is the QSARs developed for olefin polymerization by half sandwich compounds. It has been shown that **activity** prediction is even possible based purely on the SMILES string. Similarly to string-based methods, the molecular graph can directly be used as input for QSAR models, but usually yield inferior perform...
154. ...tures. Because those lack structural interpretation ability, the preprocessing steps face a feature selection problem (i.e., which structural features should be interpreted to determine the structure-**activity** relationship). Feature selection can be accomplished by visual inspection (qualitative selection by a human); by data mining; or by molecule mining. A typical data mining based prediction uses e.g. s...
155. ...which fails to guide medicinal chemists. Recently there is a relatively new concept of matched molecular pair analysis or prediction driven MMPA which is coupled with QSAR model in order to identify **activity** cliffs. QSAR modeling produces predictive models derived from application of statistical tools correlating biological activity (including desirable therapeutic effect and undesirable side effects) or...
156. ...iction driven MMPA which is coupled with QSAR model in order to identify activity cliffs. QSAR modeling produces predictive models derived from application of statistical tools correlating biological **activity** (including desirable therapeutic effect and undesirable side effects) or physico-chemical properties in QSPR models of chemicals (drugs/toxicants/environmental pollutants) with descriptors representa...
157. ...and this serves as a means for predicting the boiling points of higher alkanes. A still very interesting application is the Hammett equation, Taft equation and pKa prediction methods. The biological **activity** of molecules is usually measured in assays to establish the level of inhibition of particular signal transduction or metabolic pathways. Drug discovery often involves the use of QSAR to identify chem...
158. ...on or metabolic pathways. Drug discovery often involves the use of QSAR to identify chemical structures that could have good inhibitory effects on specific targets and have low toxicity (non-specific **activity**). Of special interest is the prediction of partition coefficient log "P", which is an important measure used in identifying "druglikeness" according to Lipinski's Rule of Five. While many quantitativ...
159. ...l interest is the prediction of partition coefficient log "P", which is an important measure used in identifying "druglikeness" according to Lipinski's Rule of Five. While many quantitative structure **activity** relationship analyses involve the interactions of a family of molecules with an enzyme or receptor binding site, QSAR can also be used to study the interactions between the structural domains of prot...
160. ...n of a pharmaceutical compound within an organism. The four criteria all influence the drug levels and kinetics of drug exposure to the tissues and hence influence the performance and pharmacological **activity** of the compound as a drug. Sometimes, liberation and/or toxicity are also considered, yielding LADME, ADMET, or LADMET. For a compound to reach a tissue, it usually must be taken into the bloodstream...
161. ...ive, also known as Pfizer's rule of five or simply the rule of five (RO5), is a rule of thumb to evaluate druglikeness or determine if a chemical compound with a certain pharmacological or biological **activity** has chemical properties and physical properties that would likely make it an orally active drug in humans. The rule was formulated by Christopher A. Lipinski in 1997, based on the observation that mo...
162. ...ot predict if a compound is pharmacologically active. The rule is important to keep in mind during drug discovery when a pharmacologically active lead structure is optimized step-wise to increase the **activity** and selectivity of the compound as well as to ensure drug-like physicochemical properties are maintained as described by Lipinski's rule. Candidate drugs that conform to the RO5 tend to have lower at...
163. ...R" material contained includes: The PDR has several versions and related volumes: International unit In pharmacology, the international unit (IU) is a unit of measurement for the effect or biological **activity** of a substance, for the purpose of easier comparison across similar "forms" of substances. International units are used to quantify vitamins and biologics (hormones, some medications, vaccines, blood...
164. ...pleting, a new standard will have to be found. A new batch of the substance in question is produced and calibrated against the old one, so that the unit still represents the same amount of biological **activity**. Many substances have undergone several such standard sample changes. The "third international standard" of prolactin has nearly run out and in 2016 replacement was proposed. Before the purification...
165. ...few grams per day. At the peripheral level, "myo"-inositol is converted to -"chiro"-inositol by a specific epimerase. Only a minor fraction of "myo"-inositol is converted into -"chiro"-inositol. The **activity** of this epimerase is insulin dependent, causing a reduction of -"chiro"-inositol in muscle, fat, and liver when there is insulin resistance. -"chiro"-inositol reduces the conversion of testosterone t...
166. ...s not active in skin. The CYP450 actively metabolized drugs can then maintain high concentration when being applied on skin. Despite CYP450 enzyme action, the partition coefficient (K) determines the **activity** of topical drugs. The ability of drug particles to go through the skin layer also affects the absorption of drugs. For transdermal activity, medicines with higher K value are harder to get rid of the...
167. ...enzyme action, the partition coefficient (K) determines the activity of topical drugs. The ability of drug particles to go through the skin layer also affects the absorption of drugs. For transdermal **activity**, medicines with higher K value are harder to get rid of the lipid layer of skin cells. The trapped molecules then cannot penetrate into the skin. This reduces the efficacy of the transdermal drugs. T...
168. ...from that for screens with replicates For hit selection in primary screens without replicates, the easily interpretable ones are average fold change, mean difference, percent inhibition, and percent **activity**. However, they do not capture data variability effectively. The z-score method or SSMD, which can capture data variability based on an assumption that every compound has the same variability as a neg...
169. ...and cheminformatics software qHTS data yields half maximal effective concentration (EC50), maximal response, Hill coefficient (nH) for the entire library enabling the assessment of nascent structure **activity** relationships (SAR). In March 2010, research was published demonstrating an HTS process allowing 1,000 times faster screening (100 million reactions in 10 hours) at 1-millionth the cost (using 10 tim...
170. ...peutic effect or beneficial change in clinical settings. In pharmacology, efficacy () is the maximum response achievable from an applied or dosed agent, for instance, a small molecule drug. Intrinsic **activity** is a relative term for a drug's efficacy relative to a drug with the highest observed efficacy. It is a purely descriptive term that has little or no mechanistic interpretation. In order for a drug t...
171. ...ification, synthesis and development of new chemical entities suitable for therapeutic use. It also includes the study of existing drugs, their biological properties, and their quantitative structure-**activity** relationships (QSAR). Medicinal chemistry is a highly interdisciplinary science combining organic chemistry with biochemistry, computational chemistry, pharmacology, molecular biology, statistics, an...
172. ...hetic and computational aspects of the study of existing drugs and agents in development in relation to their bioactivities (biological activities and properties), i.e., understanding their structure–**activity** relationships (SAR). Pharmaceutical chemistry is focused on quality aspects of medicines and aims to assure fitness for purpose of medicinal products. At the biological interface, medicinal chemistry...
173. ...able for use in treatment of disease. Discovery is the identification of novel active chemical compounds, often called "hits", which are typically found by assay of compounds for a desired biological **activity**. Initial hits can come from repurposing existing agents toward a new pathologic processes, and from observations of biologic effects of new or existing natural products from bacteria, fungi, plants,...
174. ...ounds against biological targets using biochemical or chemoproteomics assays, where the compounds may be from novel synthetic chemical libraries known to have particular properties (kinase inhibitory **activity**, diversity or drug-likeness, etc.), or from historic chemical compound collections or libraries created through combinatorial chemistry. While a number of approaches toward the identification and dev...
175. ...do not provide series displaying suitable SAR and chemical characteristics associated with long-term potential for development, then to improve the remaining hit series concerning the desired primary **activity**, as well as secondary activities and physiochemical properties such that the agent will be useful when administered in real patients. In this regard, chemical modifications can improve the recognitio...
176. ...MS, but especially Ph.D.) in organic chemistry, rather than medicinal chemistry, and the preponderance of positions are in research, where the net is necessarily cast widest, and most broad synthetic **activity** occurs. In research of small molecule therapeutics, an emphasis on training that provides for breadth of synthetic experience and "pace" of bench operations is clearly present (e.g., for individuals...
177. ...rica or European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) can further limit or specify allowed commercial practices. Marketing to health-care providers takes three main forms: **activity** by pharmaceutical sales representatives, provision of drug samples, and sponsoring continuing medical education (CME). The use of gifts, including pens and coffee mugs embossed with pharmaceutical pr...
178. ...DA approved Gilead's Truvada for prevention of HIV infection (it was already approved for treating HIV). The pill was a preventive measure (PrEP) for people at high risk of getting HIV through sexual **activity**. In 2013, the company acquired YM Biosciences, Inc. for $510 million. The acquisition brings drug candidate CYT387, an orally-administered, once-daily, selective inhibitor of the Janus kinase (JAK) f...
179. ...n facilitated by enzymes such as drug transporters or drug metabolizing enzymes (discussed in-depth below). Variation in DNA loci responsible for producing these enzymes can alter their expression or **activity** so that their functional status changes. An increase, decrease, or loss of function for transporters or metabolizing enzymes can ultimately alter the amount of medication in the body and at the site...
180. ...BCRP) ("ABCG2)." Pharmacodynamics refers to the impact a medication has on the body, or its mechanism of action. Drug targets are the specific sites where a medication carries out its pharmacological **activity**. The interaction between the drug and this site results in a modification of the target that may include inhibition or potentiation. Most of the pharmacogenetic interactions that involve drug targets...
181. ...se drugs may also cause serious toxicity in ultrarapid metabolizer patients when used to treat other post-operative pain, such as after tonsillectomy. Other drugs may function as inhibitors of CYP2D6 **activity** or inducers of CYP2D6 enzyme expression that will lead to decreased or increased CYP2D6 activity respectively. If such a drug is taken at the same time as a second drug that is a CYP2D6 substrate, th...
182. ...her post-operative pain, such as after tonsillectomy. Other drugs may function as inhibitors of CYP2D6 activity or inducers of CYP2D6 enzyme expression that will lead to decreased or increased CYP2D6 **activity** respectively. If such a drug is taken at the same time as a second drug that is a CYP2D6 substrate, the first drug may affect the elimination rate of the second through what is known as a drug-drug i...
183. ...cytochrome CYP2D6 enzyme occurs approximately in 7–10% in white populations, and is lower in most other ethnic groups such as Asians and African-Americans at 2% each. A complete lack of CYP2D6 enzyme **activity**, wherein the individual has two copies of the polymorphisms that result in no CYP2D6 activity at all, is said to be about 1-2% of the population. The occurrence of CYP2D6 ultrarapid metabolizers appe...
184. ...ost other ethnic groups such as Asians and African-Americans at 2% each. A complete lack of CYP2D6 enzyme activity, wherein the individual has two copies of the polymorphisms that result in no CYP2D6 **activity** at all, is said to be about 1-2% of the population. The occurrence of CYP2D6 ultrarapid metabolizers appears to be greater among Middle Eastern and North African populations. Caucasians with European...
185. ...candidates more effectively. In 2010, for example, using the protein docking algorithm EADock (see Protein-ligand docking), researchers found potential inhibitors to an enzyme associated with cancer **activity** "in silico". Fifty percent of the molecules were later shown to be active inhibitors "in vitro". This approach differs from use of expensive high-throughput screening (HTS) robotic labs to physically...
186. ...pharmacophore model can be updated to further refine it. In modern computational chemistry, pharmacophores are used to define the essential features of one or more molecules with the same biological **activity**. A database of diverse chemical compounds can then be searched for more molecules which share the same features arranged in the same relative orientation. Pharmacophores are also used as the starting...
187. ...absorption by acting on the P-glycoprotein of the enterocytes. This appears to be one of the mechanisms by which grapefruit juice increases the bioavailability of various drugs beyond its inhibitory **activity** on first pass metabolism. Drugs also may affect each other by competing for transport proteins in plasma, such as albumin. In these cases the drug that arrives first binds with the plasma protein, le...
188. ...abolic drug interactions is the enzyme system comprising the cytochrome P450 oxidases. Cytochrome P450 is a very large family of haemoproteins (hemoproteins) that are characterized by their enzymatic **activity** and their role in the metabolism of a large number of drugs. Of the various families that are present in humans, the most interesting in this respect are the 1, 2 and 3, and the most important enzyme...
189. ...ence with these substances. The function of the enzymes can either be stimulated (enzyme induction) or inhibited (enzyme inhibition). If a drug is metabolized by a CYP450 enzyme and drug B blocks the **activity** of these enzymes, it can lead to pharmacokinetic alterations. A. This alteration results in drug A remaining in the bloodstream for an extended duration, and eventually increase in concentration. In...
190. ...e the rate of metabolism.  An example of this is shown in the following table for the CYP1A2 enzyme, showing the substrates (drugs metabolized by this enzyme) and some inductors and inhibitors of its **activity**: Some foods also act as inductors or inhibitors of enzymatic activity. The following table shows the most common: Drugs tightly bound to proteins (i.e. not in the free fraction) are not available for...
191. ...g table for the CYP1A2 enzyme, showing the substrates (drugs metabolized by this enzyme) and some inductors and inhibitors of its activity: Some foods also act as inductors or inhibitors of enzymatic **activity**. The following table shows the most common: Drugs tightly bound to proteins (i.e. not in the free fraction) are not available for renal excretion. Filtration depends on a number of factors including...
192. ...ed organoarsenic (“arsenicals”) for the treatment of syphilis, demonstrating the relevance of metals, or at least metalloids, to medicine, that blossomed with Rosenberg's discovery of the anti-cancer **activity** of cisplatin (cis-PtCl(NH)). The first protein ever crystallized (see James B. Sumner) was urease, later shown to contain nickel at its active site. Vitamin B, the cure for pernicious anemia was show...
193. ...tion metals are usually present as trace elements in organisms, with zinc and iron being most abundant. These metals are used as protein cofactors and signalling molecules. Many are essential for the **activity** of enzymes such as catalase and oxygen-carrier proteins such as hemoglobin. These cofactors are tightly to a specific protein; although enzyme cofactors can be modified during catalysis, cofactors al...
194. ...y used models are murine and canine, although primate and porcine are also used. The choice of species is based on which will give the best correlation to human trials. Differences in the gut, enzyme **activity**, circulatory system, or other considerations make certain models more appropriate based on the dosage form, site of activity, or noxious metabolites. For example, canines may not be good models for s...
195. ...give the best correlation to human trials. Differences in the gut, enzyme activity, circulatory system, or other considerations make certain models more appropriate based on the dosage form, site of **activity**, or noxious metabolites. For example, canines may not be good models for solid oral dosage forms because the characteristic carnivore intestine is underdeveloped compared to the omnivore's, and gastr...
196. ...a metal complex, as illustrated by metal-amino acid complexes. If the metal exhibits catalytic properties, its combination with a chiral ligand is the basis of asymmetric catalysis. The term "optical **activity**" is derived from the interaction of chiral materials with polarized light. In a solution, the (−)-form, or levorotatory form, of an optical isomer rotates the plane of a beam of linearly polarized li...
197. ...ut microbiota. This last factor has significance because gut microorganisms are able to chemically modify the structure of drugs through degradation and biotransformation processes, thus altering the **activity** and toxicity of drugs. These processes can decrease the efficacy of drugs, as is the case of digoxin in the presence of "Eggerthella lenta" in the microbiota. Genetic variation (polymorphism) account...
198. ...eral, drugs are metabolized more slowly in fetal, neonatal and elderly humans and animals than in adults. Inherited genetic variations in drug metabolising enzymes result in their different catalytic **activity** levels. For example, N-acetyltransferases (involved in "Phase II" reactions), individual variation creates a group of people who acetylate slowly ("slow acetylators") and those who acetylate quickly...
199. ...DPYD, UGT1A1. "DPYD" and "UGT1A1" genotyping is now required before administration of the corresponding substrate compounds (5-FU and capecitabine for DPYD and irinotecan for UGT1A1) to determine the **activity** of DPYD and UGT1A1 enzyme and reduce the dose of the drug in order to avoid severe adverse reactions. Dose, frequency, route of administration, tissue distribution and protein binding of the drug aff...
200. ...d to as "protoxins". While toxication is generally undesirable, in certain cases it is required for the "in vivo" conversion of a prodrug to a metabolite with desired pharmacological or toxicological **activity**. Codeine is an example of a prodrug, metabolized in the body to the active compounds morphine and codeine-6-glucuronide. Phase I of drug metabolism are bioactivation pathways, which are catalyzed by...
201. ...-glucuronide. Phase I of drug metabolism are bioactivation pathways, which are catalyzed by CYP450 enzymes, produce toxic metabolites and thus have the potential to damage cells. The unusual level of **activity** CYP450 enzymes might lead to the changes in drug metabolism and convert drugs into their more toxic forms. Among Phase I CYP450 enzymes, the subfamilies CYP2D6 and CYP3A are responsible for hepatotox...
202. ...agonist In pharmacology, an inverse agonist is a drug that binds to the same receptor as an agonist but induces a pharmacological response opposite to that of the agonist. A neutral antagonist has no **activity** in the absence of an agonist or inverse agonist but can block the activity of either; they are in fact sometimes called "blockers" (examples include alpha blockers, beta blockers, and calcium channel...
203. ...e receptor as an agonist but induces a pharmacological response opposite to that of the agonist. A neutral antagonist has no activity in the absence of an agonist or inverse agonist but can block the **activity** of either; they are in fact sometimes called "blockers" (examples include alpha blockers, beta blockers, and calcium channel blockers). Inverse agonists have opposite actions to those of agonists but...
204. ...ut the effects of both of these can be blocked by antagonists. A prerequisite for an inverse agonist response is that the receptor must have a constitutive (also known as intrinsic or basal) level of **activity** in the absence of any ligand. An agonist increases the activity of a receptor above its basal level, whereas an inverse agonist decreases the activity below the basal level. The efficacy of a full ag...
205. ...prerequisite for an inverse agonist response is that the receptor must have a constitutive (also known as intrinsic or basal) level of activity in the absence of any ligand. An agonist increases the **activity** of a receptor above its basal level, whereas an inverse agonist decreases the activity below the basal level. The efficacy of a full agonist is by definition 100%, a neutral antagonist has 0% efficac...
206. ...tive (also known as intrinsic or basal) level of activity in the absence of any ligand. An agonist increases the activity of a receptor above its basal level, whereas an inverse agonist decreases the **activity** below the basal level. The efficacy of a full agonist is by definition 100%, a neutral antagonist has 0% efficacy, and an inverse agonist has < 0% (i.e., negative) efficacy. Receptors for which inver...
207. ...Both endogenous and exogenous inverse agonists have been identified, as have drugs at ligand gated ion channels and at G protein-coupled receptors. An example of a receptor site that possesses basal **activity** and for which inverse agonists have been identified is the GABA receptors. Agonists for GABA receptors (such as muscimol) create a relaxant effect, whereas inverse agonists have agitation effects (fo...
208. ...type of receptor, mutants of receptors, binding affinities and whether the effects are exerted acutely or chronically based on receptor population density. Because of this, they exhibit a spectrum of **activity** below the Intrinsic activity level. Changes in constitutive activity of receptors affect response levels from ligands like inverse agonists. To illustrate, mechanistic models have been made for how i...
209. ...receptors, binding affinities and whether the effects are exerted acutely or chronically based on receptor population density. Because of this, they exhibit a spectrum of activity below the Intrinsic **activity** level. Changes in constitutive activity of receptors affect response levels from ligands like inverse agonists. To illustrate, mechanistic models have been made for how inverse agonists induce their...
210. ...r the effects are exerted acutely or chronically based on receptor population density. Because of this, they exhibit a spectrum of activity below the Intrinsic activity level. Changes in constitutive **activity** of receptors affect response levels from ligands like inverse agonists. To illustrate, mechanistic models have been made for how inverse agonists induce their responses on G protein-coupled receptors...
211. ...nt thinking is that the GPCRs can exist in a continuum of active and inactive states when no ligand is present. Inverse agonists stabilize the inactive states, thereby suppressing agonist-independent **activity**. However, the implementation of 'constitutively active mutants' of GPCRs change their intrinsic activity. Thus, the effect an inverse agonist has on a receptor depends on the basal activity of the re...
212. ...esent. Inverse agonists stabilize the inactive states, thereby suppressing agonist-independent activity. However, the implementation of 'constitutively active mutants' of GPCRs change their intrinsic **activity**. Thus, the effect an inverse agonist has on a receptor depends on the basal activity of the receptor, assuming the inverse agonist has the same binding affinity (as shown in the figure 2). MedDRA A s...
213. ...dependent activity. However, the implementation of 'constitutively active mutants' of GPCRs change their intrinsic activity. Thus, the effect an inverse agonist has on a receptor depends on the basal **activity** of the receptor, assuming the inverse agonist has the same binding affinity (as shown in the figure 2). MedDRA A subscription-based product of the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical...
214. ...cial bonding and water retention. Modified peptides include antibiotics like penicillins and cephalosporins, characterized by their β-lactam ring structure, which is essential for their antibacterial **activity**. These compounds undergo complex enzymatic modifications during biosynthesis. Cyanogenic glycosides are amino acid derivatives in plants that can release hydrogen cyanide when tissues are damaged, se...
215. ...ides, lipids, biogenic amines etc.) often have very specific interactions with a macromolecular target in the body (e.g. α-bungarotoxin from cobras). As with plant feeding deterrents, this biological **activity** is attributed to natural selection, organisms capable of killing or paralyzing their prey and/or defending themselves against predators being more likely to survive and reproduce. Because of these sp...
216. ...sponge "Discodermia dissoluta"), eleutherobin (from the coral "Erythropodium caribaeorum"), and the bryostatins (from the bryozoan "Bugula neritina"). Natural products sometimes have pharmacological **activity** that can be of therapeutic benefit in treating diseases. Moreover, synthetic analogs of natural products with improved potency and safety can be prepared, and therefore, natural products are often us...
217. ...t harvesting enough paclitaxel for a single dose of therapy would require the bark of an entire yew tree ("Taxus brevifolia"). Additionally, the number of structural analogues available for structure–**activity** analysis (SAR) is limited by the biology of the organism, and thus beyond experimental control. When the desired product is difficult to obtain or modify to create analogs, a middle-to-late stage bio...
218. ...creation of analogues of the final product, as seen in the development of newer generation semisynthetic penicillins. In general, the total synthesis of natural products is a non-commercial research **activity**, aimed at deeper understanding of the synthesis of particular natural product frameworks, and the development of fundamental new synthetic methods. Even so, it is of tremendous commercial and societa...
219. ...mber of elements: primarily carbon and hydrogen and supplemented by oxygen and nitrogen. He quickly focused on the isolation of these substances, often because they had an interesting pharmacological **activity**. Plants were the main source of such compounds, especially alkaloids and glycosides. It was long been known that opium, a sticky mixture of alkaloids (including codeine, morphine, noscapine, thebaine...
220. ...he particle's material and of the surrounding medium. Even when only a single molecule thick, these coatings can radically change the particles' properties, such as and chemical reactivity, catalytic **activity**, and stability in suspension. The high surface area of a material in nanoparticle form allows heat, molecules, and ions to diffuse into or out of the particles at very large rates. The small particle...
221. ...ch as sapphire and silica to make composites with near-surface dispersions of metal or oxide nanoparticles. Many properties of nanoparticles, notably stability, solubility, and chemical or biological **activity**, can be radically altered by coating them with various substances — a process called functionalization. Functionalized nanomaterial-based catalysts can be used for catalysis of many known organic rea...
222. ...stronger anchoring. Monovalent nanoparticles, bearing a single binding site, avoid clustering and so are preferable for tracking the behavior of individual proteins. It has been shown that catalytic **activity** and sintering rates of a functionalized nanoparticle catalyst is correlated to nanoparticles' number density Coatings that mimic those of red blood cells can help nanoparticles evade the immune syste...
223. ...ty, although some are used by other disciplines within the pharmaceutical sciences as well. The European Medicines Agency defines terms in its Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP): The **activity** that is most commonly associated with pharmacovigilance (PV), and which consumes a significant number of resources for drug regulatory authorities (or similar government agencies) and drug safety dep...
224. ...argement of the male breast, whether asymptomatic or painful, is a common condition thought to result from an increased estrogen/testosterone ratio or from heightened estrogenic or reduced androgenic **activity** via receptor interactions.Tamoxifen is used to prevent and treat gynecomastia. It is taken as a preventative measure in small doses, or used at the onset of any symptoms such as nipple soreness or se...
225. ...antly reduces its concentrations. Tamoxifen acts as a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM), or as a partial agonist of the estrogen receptors (ERs). It has mixed estrogenic and antiestrogenic **activity**, with its profile of effects differing by tissue. For instance, tamoxifen has predominantly antiestrogenic effects in the breasts but predominantly estrogenic effects in the uterus and liver. In brea...
226. ...the G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER) with relatively low affinity. Its affinity for the receptor is in the range of 100 to 1,000 nM, relative to 3 to 6 nM for estradiol. In addition to its **activity** as a SERM, afimoxifene binds to both the estrogen-related receptor β and estrogen-related receptor γ and is an antagonist of the estrogen-related receptor γ (ERRγ). Norendoxifen (4-hydroxy-"N","N"-di...
227. ...y-"N","N"-didesmethyltamoxifen), another active metabolite of tamoxifen, has been found to act as a potent competitive aromatase inhibitor (IC = 90 nM), and may also be involved in the antiestrogenic **activity** of tamoxifen. In addition to its activity as a SERM, tamoxifen is a potent and selective protein kinase C inhibitor, and is active in this regard at therapeutic concentrations. This action is thought...
228. ...ctive metabolite of tamoxifen, has been found to act as a potent competitive aromatase inhibitor (IC = 90 nM), and may also be involved in the antiestrogenic activity of tamoxifen. In addition to its **activity** as a SERM, tamoxifen is a potent and selective protein kinase C inhibitor, and is active in this regard at therapeutic concentrations. This action is thought to underlie the efficacy of tamoxifen in...
229. ...pressant effects when administered by itself. However, tamoxifen dose-dependently blocks amphetamine-mediated dopamine release and psychostimulant-like effects in animals. This unusual profile of DRI **activity** has made tamoxifen of potential interest as a starting point for structural modification to develop novel pharmaceutical drugs for treatment of stimulant use disorder. Tamoxifen is rapidly and extens...
230. ...eted constructs. Tamoxifen may be effective in the treatment of mania in people with bipolar disorder. This is thought to be due to blockade of protein kinase C (PKC), an enzyme that regulates neuron **activity** in the brain. Researchers believe PKC is overactive during the mania in bipolar patients. , endoxifen, a major active metabolite of tamoxifen with a 4-fold more potent PKC inhibition, was in phase II...
231. ...be detected, typically using RT-PCR or western hybridization methods. Gross phenotypic changes are not the norm, unless the recombinant gene has been chosen and modified so as to generate biological **activity** in the host organism. Additional phenotypes that are encountered include toxicity to the host organism induced by the recombinant gene product, especially if it is over-expressed or expressed within...
232. ...s occur but are readily excised by the nucleotide excision repair (NER). Other adducts include inter-strand crosslinks and nonfunctional adducts that have been postulated to contribute to cisplatin's **activity**. Interaction with cellular proteins, particularly HMG domain proteins, has also been advanced as a mechanism of interfering with mitosis, although this is probably not its primary method of action. C...
233. ..., inhibition of apoptosis, increased DNA repair or changes in metabolism. Oxaliplatin is active in highly cisplatin-resistant cancer cells in the laboratory; however, there is little evidence for its **activity** in the clinical treatment of patients with cisplatin-resistant cancer. The drug paclitaxel may be useful in the treatment of cisplatin-resistant cancer; the mechanism for this activity is as yet unkn...
234. ...idence for its activity in the clinical treatment of patients with cisplatin-resistant cancer. The drug paclitaxel may be useful in the treatment of cisplatin-resistant cancer; the mechanism for this **activity** is as yet unknown. Transplatin, the "trans"-stereoisomer of cisplatin, has formula "trans"-[PtCl(NH)] and does not exhibit a comparably useful pharmacological effect. Two mechanisms have been suggest...
235. ...ic effects of cisplatin, without increasing normal tissue toxicities. However, due to significant side effects, the search for structurally novel Pt(II) and Pd(II) compounds exhibiting antineoplastic **activity** is extremely important and aims to develop more effective and less toxic drugs. Cisplatin-like molecules ([PtCl(NH)] and [Pt(NH)Cl]) linked by variable length alkandiamine chains have attracted some...
236. ...which a force is exerted on a dielectric particle when it is subjected to a non-uniform electric field. This force does not require the particle to be charged. All particles exhibit dielectrophoretic **activity** in the presence of electric fields. However, the strength of the force depends strongly on the medium and particles' electrical properties, on the particles' shape and size, as well as on the frequen...
237. ...rience a reduction in blood levels of drugs they are taking for other purposes, such as cancer chemotherapeutic drugs, protease inhibitors for HIV and hormonal contraceptives. The scientific field of **activity** associated with drug safety is increasingly government-regulated, and is of major concern for the public, as well as to drug manufacturers. The distinction between adverse and nonadverse effects is a...
238. ...er school performance and increased incidence of leaving school early were both associated with cannabis use, although a causal relationship was not established. Cannabis users demonstrated increased **activity** in task-related brain regions, consistent with reduced processing efficiency. A reduced quality of life is associated with heavy cannabis use, although the relationship is inconsistent and weaker tha...
239. ..., although findings are inconsistent. Cannabis use is associated with increased recruitment of task-related areas, such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, which is thought to reflect compensatory **activity** due to reduced processing efficiency. Cannabis use is also associated with downregulation of CB receptors. The magnitude of down regulation is associated with cumulative cannabis exposure, and is rev...
240. ...t may be: Depending on the nature of the stimulus, the following can occur: The term "biological target" is frequently used in pharmaceutical research to describe the native protein in the body whose **activity** is modified by a drug resulting in a specific effect, which may be a desirable therapeutic effect or an unwanted adverse effect. In this context, the biological target is often referred to as a drug...
241. ...mproves the progression free survival time but not survival time. In 2009, the FDA approved bevacizumab for use in metastatic renal cell cancer (a form of kidney cancer). following earlier reports of **activity** EU approval was granted in 2007. In the EU, bevacizumab in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indicated for first-line treatment of adults with advanced and/or metastatic renal cell cancer. Bevac...
242. ...IC for fluid consumption of that drug. The IC of a drug can be determined by constructing a dose-response curve and examining the effect of different concentrations of antagonist on reversing agonist **activity**. IC values can be calculated for a given antagonist by determining the concentration needed to inhibit half of the maximum biological response of the agonist. IC values can be used to compare the pot...
243. ...be used to compare the potency of two antagonists. IC values are very dependent on conditions under which they are measured. In general, "a higher concentration of inhibitor leads to lowered agonist **activity**." IC value increases as agonist concentration increases. Furthermore, depending on the type of inhibition, other factors may influence IC value; for ATP dependent enzymes, IC value has an interdepend...
244. ...binding affinity of the inhibitor, IC is the functional strength of the inhibitor, [S] is fixed substrate concentration and K is the Michaelis constant i.e. concentration of substrate at which enzyme **activity** is at half maximal (but is frequently confused with substrate affinity for the enzyme, which it is not). Alternatively, for inhibition constants at cellular receptors: where [A] is the fixed concentr...
245. ...nd made publicly available on the ICH website. ICH harmonisation activities fall into 4 categories: Formal ICH Procedure, Q&A Procedure, Revision Procedure and Maintenance Procedure, depending on the **activity** to be undertaken. The development of a new harmonised guideline and its implementation (the formal ICH procedure) involves 5 steps: The WG works to prepare a consensus draft of the technical document...
246. ...m by, typically, binding to the macromolecule A and causing an activation or an inhibition of the subsystem by forming an activated form of the macromolecule B. The following schematic represents the **activity**: formula_1 where p is the activation rate coefficient. It is customary that p is called a rate constant, but, since the p stands for measure of the intensity of the stimulus causing the activation, p...
247. ...fects that anticholinesterases have.  One promising drug, nefiracetam, is being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's and other patients with dementia, and has unique actions in potentiating the **activity** of both nACh receptors and NMDA receptors. With advances in technology and our understanding of the nervous system, the development of drugs will continue with increasing drug sensitivity and specifi...
248. ...ceptors and NMDA receptors. With advances in technology and our understanding of the nervous system, the development of drugs will continue with increasing drug sensitivity and specificity. Structure–**activity** relationships are a major area of research within neuropharmacology; an attempt to modify the effect or the potency (i.e., activity) of bioactive chemical compounds by modifying their chemical struct...
249. ...ontinue with increasing drug sensitivity and specificity. Structure–activity relationships are a major area of research within neuropharmacology; an attempt to modify the effect or the potency (i.e., **activity**) of bioactive chemical compounds by modifying their chemical structures. Racemic acid Racemic acid is an old name for an optically inactive or racemic form of tartaric acid. It is an equal mixture of...
250. ...ive state of miraculin is a tetramer consisting of two dimers, each held together by a disulfide bridge. Both tetramer miraculin and native dimer miraculin in its crude state have the taste-modifying **activity** of turning sour tastes into sweet tastes. Miraculin belongs to the Kunitz STI protease inhibitor family. Miraculin, unlike curculin (another taste-modifying agent), is not sweet by itself, but it can...
251. ...ceptors generally do not, for example: selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), and medications using 5HT receptor agonists that do not have constitutive **activity** at the mGluR2 dimer, such as lisuride. Tianeptine, an atypical antidepressant, is thought to exhibit functional selectivity at the μ-opioid receptor to mediate its antidepressant effects. Oliceridine...
252. ...s. Camptothecin, derived from a Chinese ornamental tree, inhibits topoisomerase I, an enzyme that allows DNA unwinding. Despite showing promise in preclinical studies, the agent had little antitumour **activity** in early clinical trials, and dosing was limited by kidney toxicity: its lactone ring is unstable at neutral pH, so while in the acidic environment of the kidneys it becomes active, damaging the rena...
253. ...t the Institute of Cancer Research in the United Kingdom extended the clinical usefulness of the platinum compounds with their development of carboplatin, a cisplatin derivative with broad antitumour **activity** and comparatively less nephrotoxicity. A second group with an NCI contract, led by John Montgomery at the Southern Research Institute, synthesized nitrosoureas, an alkylating agent which cross-links...
254. ...detoxifying metabolism of fluoropyrimidines, a class of drugs that includes capecitabine, 5-fluorouracil and tegafur. Genetic variations within the DPD gene ("DPYD") can lead to reduced or absent DPD **activity**, and individuals who are heterozygous or homozygous for these variations may have partial or complete DPD deficiency; an estimated 0.2% of individuals have complete DPD deficiency. Those with partial...
255. ...and inventor. He is one of the nine Institute Professors at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He was formerly the Germeshausen Professor of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering and maintains **activity** in the Department of Chemical Engineering and the Department of Biological Engineering at MIT. He is also a faculty member of the Harvard–MIT Program in Health Sciences and Technology and the Koch In...
256. .... NETA is a progestin, or a synthetic progestogen, and hence is an agonist of the progesterone receptor, the biological target of progestogens like progesterone. It has weak androgenic and estrogenic **activity** and no other important hormonal activity. The medication is a prodrug of norethisterone in the body. NETA was patented in 1957 and was introduced for medical use in 1964. It is sometimes referred to...
257. ...gestogen, and hence is an agonist of the progesterone receptor, the biological target of progestogens like progesterone. It has weak androgenic and estrogenic activity and no other important hormonal **activity**. The medication is a prodrug of norethisterone in the body. NETA was patented in 1957 and was introduced for medical use in 1964. It is sometimes referred to as a "first-generation" progestin. NETA i...
258. ...testinal and first-pass hepatic metabolism. Hence, as a prodrug of norethisterone, NETA has essentially the same effects, acting as a potent progestogen with additional weak androgenic and estrogenic **activity** (the latter via its metabolite ethinylestradiol). In terms of dosage equivalence, norethisterone and NETA are typically used at respective dosages of 0.35 mg/day and 0.6 mg/day as progestogen-only co...
259. ...owever, 5 mg NETA produced an equivalent of 28 μg ethinylestradiol (0.7% conversion rate) and 10 mg NETA produced an equivalent of 62 μg ethinylestradiol (1.0% conversion rate). Due to its estrogenic **activity** via ethinylestradiol, high doses of NETA have been proposed for add-back in the treatment of endometriosis without estrogen supplementation. Generation of ethinylestradiol with high doses of NETA may...
260. ...doses of NETA may increase the risk of venous thromboembolism but may also decrease menstrual bleeding relative to progestogen exposure alone. NETA has antigonadotropic effects via its progestogenic **activity** and can dose-dependently suppress gonadotropin and sex hormone levels in women and men. The ovulation-inhibiting dose of NETA is about 0.5 mg/day in women. In healthy young men, NETA alone at a dose...
261. ...ssues, and mechanical or electrical failures as the main causes of adverse events. Non-competitive inhibition Non-competitive inhibition is a type of enzyme inhibition where the inhibitor reduces the **activity** of the enzyme and binds equally well to the enzyme whether or not it has already bound the substrate. This is unlike competitive inhibition, where binding affinity for the substrate in the enzyme is...
262. ...ully became published over 100 times. During his research in the hospital, he was the first to view the different types of inhibition; specifically using fructose and glucose as inhibitors of maltase **activity**. Maltase breaks maltose into two units of glucose. Findings from that experiment allowed for the divergence of non-competitive and competitive inhibition. Non-competitive inhibition affects the "k" v...
263. ...solution) or molal (mol/kg solvent) and to avoid confusion the units should be stated explicitly. The concept of ionic strength was first introduced by Lewis and Randall in 1921 while describing the **activity** coefficients of strong electrolytes. The molar ionic strength, "I", of a solution is a function of the concentration of "all" ions present in that solution. where one half is because we are including...
264. ...cil. The Chinese pharmaceutical distribution sector is very fragmented with about 10,000+ state-owned pharmaceutical wholesalers. Direct marketing to doctors (detailing), which is the basic marketing **activity** in developed countries, complemented by advertising, is not developed in China. Chinese hospitals generate 60 percent of their revenues from the sale of prescription drugs. Hospital pharmacies are st...
265. ...mechanisms of neuropathology, pharmacodynamics (drug action), psychiatric illness, and states of consciousness. These studies are instigated at the detailed level involving neurotransmission/receptor **activity**, bio-chemical processes, and neural circuitry. Neuropsychopharmacology supersedes psychopharmacology in the areas of "how" and "why", and additionally addresses other issues of brain function. Accord...
266. ...lation in animal subjects, imaging techniques such as "functional magnetic resonance imaging" (fMRI), and "in vitro" studies using selective binding agents on live tissue cultures. These allow neural **activity** to be monitored and measured in response to a variety of test conditions. Other important observational tools include radiological imaging such as "positron emission tomography" (PET) and "single-pho...
267. ...uired to develop drugs which act on very specific receptors within a neurotransmitter system. These "hyperselective-action" drugs would allow the direct targeting of specific sites of relevant neural **activity**, thereby maximizing the efficacy (or technically the "potency") of the drug within the clinical target and minimizing adverse effects. However, there are some cases when some degree of pharmacologica...
268. ...han a more selective agent would. An example of this is Vortioxetine, a drug which is not particularly selective as a serotonin reuptake inhibitor, having a significant degree of serotonin modulatory **activity**, but which has demonstrated reduced discontinuation symptoms (and reduced likelihood of relapse) and greatly reduced incidence of sexual dysfunction, without loss in antidepressant efficacy. The grou...
269. ...that may eventually change other ion channels. Researchers are better understanding precisely how these changes occur based on the protein structure shapes and chemical properties. The scope of this **activity** has been stretched even further to the very blueprint of life since the clarification of the mechanism underlying gene transcription. The synthesis of cellular proteins from nuclear DNA has the same...
270. ...also actually modulates gene expression. This is most prominently achieved through modification of the "transcription initiation process" by a variety of transcription factors produced from receptor **activity**. Aside from the important pharmacological possibilities of gene expression pathways, the correspondence of a gene with its protein allows the important analytical tool of gene knockout. Living specim...
271. ..., or SSRIs which exemplify modern pharmaceuticals. These SSRI antidepressant drugs, such as Paxil and Prozac, selectively and therefore primarily inhibit the transport of serotonin which prolongs the **activity** in the synapse. There are numerous categories of selective drugs, and transport blockage is only one mode of action. The FDA has approved drugs which selectively act on each of the major neurotransmi...
272. ...abilities exist for receptor-specific drugs, a shortcoming of drug therapy is the lack of ability to provide "anatomical" specificity. By altering receptor function in one part of the brain, abnormal **activity** can be induced in other parts of the brain due to the same type of receptor changes. A common example is the effect of D altering drugs (neuroleptics) which can help schizophrenia, but cause a variet...
273. ...t to interpret, being most recognizable from a systems analysis point of view, as may be seen in the following abstracts. Almost all drugs with a known potential for abuse have been found to modulate **activity** (directly or indirectly) in the mesolimbic dopamine system, which includes and connects the ventral tegmental area in the midbrain to the hippocampus, medial prefrontal cortex, and amygdala in the fo...
274. ...llucinogens, sometimes called the "classical psychedelics", can be attributed largely to agonism of serotonin receptors. The 5HT receptor, which seems to be the most critical receptor for psychedelic **activity**, and the 5HT receptor, which is a significant target of most psychedelics but which has no clear role in hallucinogenesis, are involved by releasing glutamate in the frontal cortex, while simultaneou...
275. ...but which has no clear role in hallucinogenesis, are involved by releasing glutamate in the frontal cortex, while simultaneously in the locus coeruleus sensory information is promoted and spontaneous **activity** decreases. 5HT activity has a net pro-dopaminergic effect, whereas 5HT receptor agonism has an inhibitory effect on dopaminergic activity, particularly in the prefrontal cortex. One hypothesis sugges...
276. ...ole in hallucinogenesis, are involved by releasing glutamate in the frontal cortex, while simultaneously in the locus coeruleus sensory information is promoted and spontaneous activity decreases. 5HT **activity** has a net pro-dopaminergic effect, whereas 5HT receptor agonism has an inhibitory effect on dopaminergic activity, particularly in the prefrontal cortex. One hypothesis suggests that in the frontal c...
277. ...cus coeruleus sensory information is promoted and spontaneous activity decreases. 5HT activity has a net pro-dopaminergic effect, whereas 5HT receptor agonism has an inhibitory effect on dopaminergic **activity**, particularly in the prefrontal cortex. One hypothesis suggests that in the frontal cortex, 5HT promotes late asynchronous excitatory postsynaptic potentials, a process antagonized by serotonin itsel...
278. ...fact that many classical psychedelics do in fact have significant affinity for 5HT receptors throws this claim into question. The head twitch response, a test used for assessing classical psychedelic **activity** in rodents, is produced by serotonin itself only in the presence of beta-Arrestins, but is triggered by classical psychedelics independent of beta-Arrestin recruitment. This may better explain the di...
279. ...n (even if promoted by drugs such as SSRIs) and that of classical psychedelics. Newer findings, however, indicate that binding to the 5HT-mGlu2 heterodimer is also necessary for classical psychedelic **activity**. This, too, may be relevant to the pharmacological differences between the two. While early in the history of psychedelic drug research it was assumed that these hallucinations were comparable to tho...
280. ...n from serotonin. Inhibitory melatonin receptors in the SCN then provide a positive feedback pathway. Therefore, light "inhibits" the production of melatonin which "entrains" the 24-hour cycle of SCN **activity**. The SCN also receives signals from other parts of the brain, and its (approximately) 24-hour cycle does not only depend on light patterns. In fact, sectioned tissue from the SCN will exhibit daily c...
281. ...us" (PAH). When adenosine builds up from the metabolism of ATP throughout the day, it binds to adenosine receptors, inhibiting the basal nucleus. The PAH is then activated, generating slow-wave sleep **activity**. Caffeine is known to block adenosine receptors, thereby inhibiting sleep among other things. Research in the field of neuropsychopharmacology encompasses a wide range of objectives. These might incl...
282. ...or sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS), emesis, and wasting syndrome. Busulfan also induces impotence in males (kills germ cells), thrombocytopenia, a condition of lowered blood platelet count and **activity**, and sometimes medullary aplasia. Seizures and VOD are serious concerns with busulfan therapy and prophylaxis is often utilized to avoid these effects. Hepatic VOD is a dose-limiting toxicity. Sympto...
283. ...used in clinical trials for newer medicines to investigate therapeutic effectiveness and safety. Apomorphine Apomorphine, sold under the brand name Apokyn among others, is a type of aporphine having **activity** as a non-selective dopamine agonist which activates both D-like and, to a much lesser extent, D-like receptors. It also acts as an antagonist of 5-HT and α-adrenergic receptors with high affinity. Th...
284. ...supply to the penis. This side effect has been exploited in studies attempting to treat erectile dysfunction. Apomorphine's R-enantiomer is an agonist of both D and D dopamine receptors, with higher **activity** at D. The members of the D subfamily, consisting of D, D, and D receptors, are inhibitory G protein–coupled receptors. The D receptor in particular is an important target in the signaling pathway, an...
285. ...Key to the use of apomorphine as a behavioural modifier was the research of Erich Harnack, whose experiments in rabbits (which do not vomit) demonstrated that apomorphine had powerful effects on the **activity** of rabbits, inducing licking, gnawing and in very high doses convulsions and death. Apomorphine was one of the earliest used pharmacotherapies for alcoholism. The Keeley Cure (1870s to 1900) containe...
286. ...elimination half-life of 110 minutes (the same as that of fluorine-18), clinical studies have shown that the radioactivity of [F]FDG partitions into two major fractions. About 75% of the fluorine-18 **activity** remains in tissues and is eliminated with a half-life of 110 minutes, presumably by decaying in place to O-18 to form [O]O-glucose-6-phosphate, which is non-radioactive (this molecule can soon be met...
287. ...tabolized to carbon dioxide and water, after nuclear transmutation of the fluorine to oxygen ceases to prevent metabolism). Another fraction of [F]FDG, representing about 20% of the total fluorine-18 **activity** of an injection, is excreted renally by two hours after a dose of [F]FDG, with a rapid half-life of about 16 minutes (this portion makes the renal-collecting system and bladder prominent in a normal...
288. ...16 minutes (this portion makes the renal-collecting system and bladder prominent in a normal PET scan). This short biological half-life indicates that this 20% portion of the total fluorine-18 tracer **activity** is eliminated renally much more quickly than the isotope itself can decay. Unlike normal glucose, FDG is not fully reabsorbed by the kidney. Because of this rapidly excreted urine F, the urine of a p...
289. ...hexokinase (whose mitochondrial form is greatly elevated in rapidly growing malignant tumours). Phosphorylated [F]FDG cannot be further metabolised and is thus retained by tissues with high metabolic **activity**, such as most types of malignant tumours. As a result, FDG-PET can be used for diagnosis, staging, and monitoring treatment of cancers, particularly in Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, colore...
290. ...= 10 mmol/L, and such patients must be rescheduled). The patient must then wait about an hour for the sugar to distribute and be taken up into organs which use glucose – a time during which physical **activity** must be kept to a minimum, in order to minimize uptake of the radioactive sugar into muscles (this causes unwanted artifacts in the scan, interfering with reading especially when the organs of intere...
291. ...if too many beetles are ingested. Great bustards may eat toxic blister beetles of the genus "Meloe" to increase the sexual arousal of males. Some plants selected in the mating season showed in-vitro **activity** against laboratory models of parasites and pathogens. Woolly bear caterpillars ("Grammia incorrupta") are sometimes lethally endoparasitised by tachinid flies. The caterpillars ingest plant toxins ca...
292. ...ntly to make themselves vomit. Chimpanzees, bonobos, and gorillas eat the fruits of "Aframomum angustifolium". Laboratory assays of homogenized fruit and seed extracts show significant anti-microbial **activity**.  Illustrating the medicinal knowledge of some species, apes have been observed selecting a particular part of a medicinal plant by taking off leaves and breaking the stem to suck out the juice. Anub...
293. ...r absorption from the gastrointestinal tract, such drugs must pass to the liver, where they may be extensively altered; this is known as the first pass effect of drug metabolism. Due to the digestive **activity** of the stomach and intestines, the oral route is unsuitable for certain substances, such as salvinorin A. Pharmaceutical preparations for sublingual administration are manufactured in the form of: Al...
294. ...ng with controlled MVTR to achieve the required quality, safety, and shelf life. In clothing, MVTR as a measure of breathability has contributed to greater comfort for wearers of clothing for outdoor **activity**. The building materials industry also manages the moisture barrier properties in architectural components to ensure the correct moisture levels in the internal spaces of buildings. Optoelectronic dev...
295. ...vided into preclinical and clinical work. New chemical entities (NCEs, also known as new molecular entities or NMEs) are compounds that emerge from the process of drug discovery. These have promising **activity** against a particular biological target that is important in disease. However, little is known about the safety, toxicity, pharmacokinetics, and metabolism of this NCE in humans. It is the function of...
296. ...ve oxygen species. Iron from this pool can be taken up by mitochondria via mitoferrin to synthesize Fe-S clusters and heme groups. Iron can be stored in ferritin as ferric iron due to the ferroxidase **activity** of the ferritin heavy chain. Dysfunctional ferritin may accumulate as hemosiderin, which can be problematic in cases of iron overload. The ferritin storage iron pool is much larger than the labile ir...
297. ...d these transporters will be reviewed below. The CorA gene is constitutively expressed in "S. typhimurium" under a wide range of external Mg concentrations. However, recent evidence suggests that the **activity** of the protein may be regulated by the PhoPQ two-component regulatory system. This sensor responds to low external Mg concentrations during the infection process of "S. typhimurium" in humans. In low...
298. ...are highly charged, containing 31 positively charged and 53 negatively charged residues. Conversely, the TM domains contain only one charged amino acid, which has been shown to be unimportant in the **activity** of the transporter. From mutagenesis experiments, it appears that the chemistry of the Mg transport relies on the hydroxyl groups lining the inside of the transport pore; there is also an absolute re...
299. ...ppears that the chemistry of the Mg transport relies on the hydroxyl groups lining the inside of the transport pore; there is also an absolute requirement for the GMN motif (shown in red). Before the **activity** of CorA could be studied "in vivo", any other Mg transport systems in the bacterial host had to be identified and inactivated or deleted (see below). A strain of "S. typhimurium" containing a functio...
300. ...on in the membrane and the positions of the N- and C-termini are indicated. The figure is not drawn to scale. While the MgtA and MgtB proteins are very similar, they do show some minor differences in **activity**. MgtB is very sensitive to temperature, losing all activity (with regard to Mg transport) at a temperature of 20 °C. Additionally, MgtB and MgtA are inhibited by different ranges of cations (Table A1...
301. ...are indicated. The figure is not drawn to scale. While the MgtA and MgtB proteins are very similar, they do show some minor differences in activity. MgtB is very sensitive to temperature, losing all **activity** (with regard to Mg transport) at a temperature of 20 °C. Additionally, MgtB and MgtA are inhibited by different ranges of cations (Table A10.1). The table lists cation transport characteristics of th...
302. ...e low-Mg conditions was replicated, but this effect was shown to be an artifact caused by the addition of a small peptide (epitope) to the protein to allow its detection. Despite these problems, Alr1 **activity** was demonstrated to respond to Mg supply, suggesting that the activity of the protein is regulated directly, as was observed for some bacterial CorA proteins. A functional Alr1p (wild type) or Alr2p...
303. ...artifact caused by the addition of a small peptide (epitope) to the protein to allow its detection. Despite these problems, Alr1 activity was demonstrated to respond to Mg supply, suggesting that the **activity** of the protein is regulated directly, as was observed for some bacterial CorA proteins. A functional Alr1p (wild type) or Alr2p (overexpressed) is required for "S. cerevisiae" growth in standard cond...
304. ...ed the Mg-requirement of an alr1 alr2 double mutant strain. The mnr2 mutation also altered accumulation of other divalent cations, suggesting this mutation may increase Alr gene expression or protein **activity**. Recent work supported this model, by showing that Alr1 activity was increased in an mnr2 mutant strain, and that the mutation was associated with induction of Alr1 activity at a higher external Mg c...
305. ...nr2 mutation also altered accumulation of other divalent cations, suggesting this mutation may increase Alr gene expression or protein activity. Recent work supported this model, by showing that Alr1 **activity** was increased in an mnr2 mutant strain, and that the mutation was associated with induction of Alr1 activity at a higher external Mg concentration than was observed for an Mnr2 wild-type strain. Thes...
306. ...ene expression or protein activity. Recent work supported this model, by showing that Alr1 activity was increased in an mnr2 mutant strain, and that the mutation was associated with induction of Alr1 **activity** at a higher external Mg concentration than was observed for an Mnr2 wild-type strain. These effects were observed without any change in Alr1 protein accumulation, again indicating that Alr1 activity...
307. ...activity at a higher external Mg concentration than was observed for an Mnr2 wild-type strain. These effects were observed without any change in Alr1 protein accumulation, again indicating that Alr1 **activity** may be regulated directly by the Mg concentration within the cell. Like the ALR genes, the MRS2 gene was cloned and sequenced before it was identified as a Mg transporter. The MRS2 gene was identifie...
308. ...il Bui "et al." (1999). Gregan "et al." (2001a) identified LPE10 by homology to MRS2 and showed that both LPE10 and MRS2 mutants altered the Mg content of yeast mitochondria and affected RNA splicing **activity** in the organelle. Mg transport has been shown to be directly mediated by Mrs2p, but not for Lpe10p. The Mrs2p and Lpe10p proteins are 470 and 413 amino acid residues in size, respectively, and a 250–...
309. ...ughout the metazoa. The TRPM6 and TRPM7 proteins are highly unusual, containing both an ion channel domain and a kinase domain (Figure 1.7), the role of which brings about the most heated debate. The **activity** of these two proteins has been very difficult to quantify. TRPM7 by itself appears to be a Ca channel but in the presence of TRPM6 the affinity series of transported cations places Mg above Ca. The d...
310. ...ental system by Voets "et al.", (2004) led to the conclusion that TRPM6 is a functional Mg transporter. However, later work by Chubanov "et al." (2004) clearly showed that TRPM7 is required for TRPM6 **activity** and that the results of Voets "et al." are explained by the expression of TRPM7 in the experimental cell line used by Voets "et al." in their experiments. Whether TRPM6 is functional by itself is yet...
311. ...he Mg dependent currents to TRPM7 alone, and their kinetic data are likely to reflect the combined TRPM7/ TRPM6 channel. The report presents a robust collection of data consistent with a channel-like **activity** passing Mg, based on both electrophysiological techniques and also mag-fura 2 to determine changes in cytoplasmic free Mg. Claudins allow for Mg transport via the paracellular pathway; that is, it me...
312. ...An increasing number of people, mainly young, in all classes of society are experimenting with this drug, and substantial numbers use it regularly for social pleasure. There is no evidence that this **activity** is causing violent crime, or is producing in otherwise normal people conditions of dependence or psychosis requiring medical treatment (…) there are indications that (cannabis) may become a functiona...
313. ...esponse curves are used extensively in pharmacology and drug development. In particular, the shape of a drug's dose–response curve (quantified by EC50, nH and ymax parameters) reflects the biological **activity** and strength of the drug. Some example measures for dose–response relationships are shown in the tables below. Each sensory stimulus corresponds with a particular sensory receptor, for instance the n...
314. ...in by disorganized collagen structure, loss of hair follicles and irregular vascular structure. In the case of wounded fetal tissue, however, wounded tissue is replaced with normal tissue through the **activity** of stem cells. A possible method for tissue regeneration in adults is to place adult stem cell "seeds" inside a tissue bed "soil" in a wound bed and allow the stem cells to stimulate differentiation...
315. ...nventional treatments, leads to the formation of fibrous scar tissue that reduces flexibility and full joint movement. Traditional treatments prevented a large number of horses from returning to full **activity** and also have a high incidence of re-injury due to the stiff nature of the scarred tendon. Introduction of both bone marrow and adipose derived stem cells, along with natural mechanical stimulus prom...
316. ...phenomenon. A related concept in electrochemistry is the electrode potential at the point of zero charge. Generally, the pzc in electrochemistry is the value of the negative decimal logarithm of the **activity** of the potential-determining ion in the bulk fluid. The pzc is of fundamental importance in surface science. For example, in the field of environmental science, it determines how easily a substrate i...
317. ...Synaptic pharmacology Synaptic pharmacology is the study of drugs that act on the synapses. It deals with the composition, uses, and effects of drugs that may enhance (receptor) or diminish (blocker) **activity** at the synapse, which is the junction across which a nerve impulse passes from an axon terminal to a neuron, muscle cell, or gland cell. A partial list of pharmacological agents that act at synapses...
318. ...rn medication is used and perceived. Drug metabolism is controlled by a number of specific enzymes, and the action of these enzymes varies among individuals. For example, most individuals show normal **activity** of the IID6 isoenzyme that is responsible for the metabolism of many tricyclic antidepressant medications and most antipsychotic drugs. However, studies have found that one-third of Asian Americans a...
319. ...s and toxicity. The CYP2D6 enzyme, important for the way in which the liver clears many drugs from the body, varies greatly between individuals in ways that can be ethnically specific.  Though enzyme **activity** is genetically influenced, it can also be altered by cultural and environmental factors such as diet, the use of other medications, alcohol and disease states. If two individuals have the same blood...
320. ...ect repeats in the 3' untranslated region. CYP1A2 also metabolizes polyunsaturated fatty acids into signaling molecules that have physiological as well as pathological activities. It has monoxygenase **activity** for certain of these fatty acids in that it metabolizes arachidonic acid to 19-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (19-HETE) (see 20-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid) but also has epoxygenase activity in that i...
321. ...oxygenase activity for certain of these fatty acids in that it metabolizes arachidonic acid to 19-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (19-HETE) (see 20-Hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid) but also has epoxygenase **activity** in that it metabolizes docosahexaenoic acid to epoxides, primarily 19"R",20"S"-epoxyeicosapentaenoic acid and 19"S",20"R"-epoxyeicosapentaenoic acid isomers (termed 19,20-EDP) and similarly metaboliz...
322. ...egarded as being a major contributor to forming the aforementioned epoxides but could act locally in certain tissues to do so. The authoritative list of star allele nomenclature for CYP1A2 along with **activity** scores is kept by PharmVar. Expression of CYP1A2 appears to be induced by various dietary constituents. Vegetables such as cabbages, cauliflower and broccoli are known to increase levels of CYP1A2. L...
323. ...es is kept by PharmVar. Expression of CYP1A2 appears to be induced by various dietary constituents. Vegetables such as cabbages, cauliflower and broccoli are known to increase levels of CYP1A2. Lower **activity** of CYP1A2 in South Asians appears to be due to cooking these vegetables in curries using ingredients such as cumin and turmeric, ingredients known to inhibit the enzyme. A single 2006 paper found CYP...
324. ...estinal cells must produce more of the enzyme to restore their capacity to metabolize drugs that the enzyme is used to metabolize. It takes around 24 hours to regain 50% of the cell's baseline enzyme **activity** and it can take 72 hours for the enzyme activity to completely return to baseline. For this reason, simply separating citrus consumption and medications taken daily does not avoid the drug interactio...
325. ...restore their capacity to metabolize drugs that the enzyme is used to metabolize. It takes around 24 hours to regain 50% of the cell's baseline enzyme activity and it can take 72 hours for the enzyme **activity** to completely return to baseline. For this reason, simply separating citrus consumption and medications taken daily does not avoid the drug interaction. For medications that interact due to inhibitio...
326. ...me, and researchers concluded that some parts of substrate molecules contribute to the binding of the enzyme. Additional drugs affected by grapefruit juice include, but are not limited to: Biological **activity** In pharmacology, biological activity or pharmacological activity describes the beneficial or adverse effects of a drug on living matter. When a drug is a complex chemical mixture, this activity is ex...
327. ...me parts of substrate molecules contribute to the binding of the enzyme. Additional drugs affected by grapefruit juice include, but are not limited to: Biological activity In pharmacology, biological **activity** or pharmacological activity describes the beneficial or adverse effects of a drug on living matter. When a drug is a complex chemical mixture, this activity is exerted by the substance's active ingre...
328. ...les contribute to the binding of the enzyme. Additional drugs affected by grapefruit juice include, but are not limited to: Biological activity In pharmacology, biological activity or pharmacological **activity** describes the beneficial or adverse effects of a drug on living matter. When a drug is a complex chemical mixture, this activity is exerted by the substance's active ingredient or pharmacophore but c...
329. ...gical activity In pharmacology, biological activity or pharmacological activity describes the beneficial or adverse effects of a drug on living matter. When a drug is a complex chemical mixture, this **activity** is exerted by the substance's active ingredient or pharmacophore but can be modified by the other constituents. Among the various properties of chemical compounds, pharmacological/biological activity...
330. ...activity is exerted by the substance's active ingredient or pharmacophore but can be modified by the other constituents. Among the various properties of chemical compounds, pharmacological/biological **activity** plays a crucial role since it suggests uses of the compounds in the medical applications. However, chemical compounds may show some adverse and toxic effects which may prevent their use in medical pr...
331. ...le since it suggests uses of the compounds in the medical applications. However, chemical compounds may show some adverse and toxic effects which may prevent their use in medical practice. Biological **activity** is usually measured by a bioassay and the activity is generally dosage-dependent, which is investigated via dose-response curves. Further, it is common to have effects ranging from beneficial to adve...
332. ...edical applications. However, chemical compounds may show some adverse and toxic effects which may prevent their use in medical practice. Biological activity is usually measured by a bioassay and the **activity** is generally dosage-dependent, which is investigated via dose-response curves. Further, it is common to have effects ranging from beneficial to adverse for one substance when going from low to high d...
333. ...nerally dosage-dependent, which is investigated via dose-response curves. Further, it is common to have effects ranging from beneficial to adverse for one substance when going from low to high doses. **Activity** depends critically on fulfillment of the ADME criteria. To be an effective drug, a compound not only must be active against a target, but also possess the appropriate ADME (Absorption, Distribution,...
334. ...ssue forming cells are in direct contact with bioglass materials. Whereas a material is considered bioactive if it has interaction with or effect on any cell tissue in the human body, pharmacological **activity** is usually taken to describe beneficial effects, i.e. the effects of drug candidates as well as a substance's toxicity. In the study of biomineralisation, bioactivity is often meant to mean the forma...
335. ...bioactivity is often meant to mean the formation of calcium phosphate deposits on the surface of objects placed in simulated body fluid, a buffer solution with ion content similar to blood. Structure–**activity** relationship The structure–activity relationship (SAR) is the relationship between the chemical structure of a molecule and its biological activity. This idea was first presented by Alexander Crum Br...
336. ...he formation of calcium phosphate deposits on the surface of objects placed in simulated body fluid, a buffer solution with ion content similar to blood. Structure–activity relationship The structure–**activity** relationship (SAR) is the relationship between the chemical structure of a molecule and its biological activity. This idea was first presented by Alexander Crum Brown and Thomas Richard Fraser at lea...
337. ...lution with ion content similar to blood. Structure–activity relationship The structure–activity relationship (SAR) is the relationship between the chemical structure of a molecule and its biological **activity**. This idea was first presented by Alexander Crum Brown and Thomas Richard Fraser at least as early as 1868. The analysis of SAR enables the determination of the chemical group responsible for evoking...
338. ...ups into the biomedical compound and test the modifications for their biological effects. This method was refined to build mathematical relationships between the chemical structure and the biological **activity**, known as quantitative structure–activity relationships (QSAR). A related term is structure affinity relationship (SAFIR). The large number of synthetic organic chemicals currently in production pres...
339. ...the modifications for their biological effects. This method was refined to build mathematical relationships between the chemical structure and the biological activity, known as quantitative structure–**activity** relationships (QSAR). A related term is structure affinity relationship (SAFIR). The large number of synthetic organic chemicals currently in production presents a major challenge for timely collecti...
340. ...they prevent ovulation and decrease androgen production by the ovaries. Additionally, estrogen in the pills stimulates the liver to produce more of a protein that binds to androgens and reduces their **activity**. Modern contraceptives using steroid hormones have "perfect-use" or "method" failure rates of less than 1% per year. The lowest failure rates are seen with the implants Jadelle and Implanon, at 0.05%...
341. ...e unlikely to play a significant role, if any, in the observed effectiveness of combined hormonal contraceptives. The mechanism of action of progestogen-only contraceptives depends on the progestogen **activity** and dose. Low dose progestogen-only contraceptives include traditional progestogen-only pills, the subdermal implant Jadelle and the intrauterine system Mirena. These contraceptives inconsistently in...
342. ...utic agents to attain the desired physiological response. Once the ligand interacting with the target macromolecule is identified, drug candidates can be designed and optimized based on the structure-**activity** relationship. Nowadays, artificial intelligence is employed in drug design to predict drug-protein interactions, drug activity, the 3D configuration of proteins, etc. Evidence-based medicine is defin...
343. ...ed, drug candidates can be designed and optimized based on the structure-activity relationship. Nowadays, artificial intelligence is employed in drug design to predict drug-protein interactions, drug **activity**, the 3D configuration of proteins, etc. Evidence-based medicine is defined as deploying the best current scientific evidence that is available to give the best treatment and make the best decision ef...
344. ...expressing a different form of an enzyme that responds differently than the normal ones. The different forms of enzymes (phenotypes) include ultra-rapid metabolizers, moderate metabolizers, no-enzyme **activity**, etc. The genetic variations can also be used to match the particular adverse drug reaction in order to prevent the patient from suffering the unfavorable outcomes. The genetic make-up can affect the...
345. ...uizzes". The last, "Godfrey's Angels" incorporates 1998–2001 improvements in the system. History of penicillin The history of penicillin follows observations and discoveries of evidence of antibiotic **activity** of the mould "Penicillium" that led to the development of penicillins that became the first widely used antibiotics. Following the production of a relatively pure compound in 1942, penicillin was the...
346. ...d with other bacteria, could be successfully inhibited. Reporting in the "Comptes Rendus de l'Académie des Sciences", they concluded: The phenomenon was described by Pasteur and Koch as antibacterial **activity** and was named "antibiosis" by French biologist Jean Paul Vuillemin in 1877. (The term "antibiosis", meaning 'against life', was adopted as "antibiotic" by American biologist and later Nobel laureate...
347. ...apanese, and production of penicillin was underway by 1 February 1944. By mid-May, a research team under Hamao Umezawa had tested 750 different strains of mould and found that 75 exhibited antibiotic **activity**. Experiments were conducted on mice to determine efficacy and toxicity. The Morinaga Milk company had a small penicillin production plant in operation in Mishima, Shizuoka, by the end of the year, an...
348. ...substances." She became only the third woman to receive the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, after Marie Curie in 1911 and Irène Joliot-Curie in 1935. The narrow range of treatable diseases or "spectrum of **activity**" of the penicillins, along with the poor activity of the orally active penicillin V, led to the search for derivatives of penicillin that could treat a wider range of infections. The isolation of 6-A...
349. ...eceive the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, after Marie Curie in 1911 and Irène Joliot-Curie in 1935. The narrow range of treatable diseases or "spectrum of activity" of the penicillins, along with the poor **activity** of the orally active penicillin V, led to the search for derivatives of penicillin that could treat a wider range of infections. The isolation of 6-APA, the nucleus of penicillin, allowed for the pre...
350. ...icillin that could be taken orally that was effective against both Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms. It was more advantageous than the original penicillin as it offered a broader spectrum of **activity** against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, whereas the original was only effective against Gram-positive. Further development yielded β-lactamase-resistant penicillins, including flucloxa...
351. ...nal was only effective against Gram-positive. Further development yielded β-lactamase-resistant penicillins, including flucloxacillin, dicloxacillin, and methicillin. These were significant for their **activity** against β-lactamase-producing bacterial species, but were ineffective against the MRSA strains. Another development of the line of penicillins was the antipseudomonal penicillins, such as carbenicill...
352. ...t were ineffective against the MRSA strains. Another development of the line of penicillins was the antipseudomonal penicillins, such as carbenicillin, ticarcillin, and piperacillin, useful for their **activity** against Gram-negative bacteria. The usefulness of the β-lactam ring was such that related antibiotics, including the mecillinams, the carbapenems and, most important, the cephalosporins, still retain...
353. ...x, white, stone and mountain oils, Antarctic shilajit, lofor, or aqua bitum. Validation (drug manufacture) The process of establishing documentary evidence demonstrating that a procedure, process, or **activity** carried out in testing and then production maintains the desired level of compliance at all stages. In the pharmaceutical industry, it is very important that in addition to final testing and complian...
354. ...guidelines. Since a wide variety of procedures, processes, and activities need to be validated, the field of validation is divided into a number of subsections including the following: Similarly, the **activity** of qualifying systems and equipment is divided into a number of subsections including the following: The concept of validation was first proposed by two Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials,...
355. ...the European Commission Enterprise Directorate-General within ‘Annex 15 to the EU Guide to Good Manufacturing Practice guide’ (2001, p. 6) which states that: ""Although PQ is described as a separate **activity**, it may in some cases be appropriate to perform it in conjunction with OQ."" This requirement has naturally expanded to encompass computer systems used both in the development and production of, and...
356. ...monstrated superior electrical, optical, mechanical, and thermal properties and can be used potentially as biological sensors. Research under Lieber has delved into the use of nanowires mapping brain **activity**. Shimon Weiss, a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, is known for his research of fluorescent semiconductor nanocrystals, a subclass of quantum dots, for biological labeling. Paul...
357. ...S is reduced to sulfite, catalyzed by APS reductase with likely glutathione as reductant. The latter reaction is assumed to be one of the primary regulation points in the sulfate reduction, since the **activity** of APS reductase is the lowest of the enzymes of the sulfate reduction pathway and it has a fast turnover rate. Sulfite is with high affinity reduced by sulfite reductase to sulfide with ferredoxin a...
358. ...n with reactive oxygen species or by the formation of mixed disulfides. The potential of glutathione as protectant is related to the pool size of glutathione, its redox state (GSH/GSSG ratio) and the **activity** of glutathione reductase. Glutathione is the precursor for the synthesis of phytochelatins, which are synthesized enzymatically by a constitutive phytochelatin synthase. The number of γ-glutamyl-cyst...
359. ...in metabolism, which at too high levels may negatively affect plant functioning. Xenobiotics may be detoxified in conjugation reactions with glutathione catalyzed by glutathione S-transferase, which **activity** is constitutive; different xenobiotics may induce distinct isoforms of the enzyme. Glutathione S-transferases have great significance in herbicide detoxification and tolerance in agriculture and thei...
360. ...s of antibiotics. Sulfur assimilation in microorganisms is regulated by a variety of environmental factors, including the availability of sulfur in the medium and the presence of other nutrients. The **activity** of key enzymes in the sulfur assimilation pathway is also regulated by feedback inhibition from downstream products, similar to the regulation seen in plants. The rapid economic growth, industrializa...
361. ...sufficient to cover the sulfur requirement of plants. There is an interaction between atmospheric and pedospheric sulfur utilization. For instance, hydrogen sulfide exposure may result in a decreased **activity** of APS reductase and a depressed sulfate uptake. Patlak plot A Patlak plot (sometimes called Gjedde–Patlak plot, Patlak–Rutland plot, or Patlak analysis) is a graphical analysis technique based on th...
362. ...fences against cancer, deactivation of carcinogens, and blocking the mechanisms by which carcinogens act (such as free radical damage to DNA). Confirmation that a substance possesses anticarcinogenic **activity** requires extensive "in vitro", "in vivo", and clinical investigation. Health claims for anticarcinogens are regulated by various national and international organizations like the US Food and Drug Adm...
363. ...of artemisinin, a drug that has been used to treat fevers due to malaria, exhaustion, or many other causes, since ancient times. Upon further study, scientists have found that Sweet Wormwood inhibits **activity** of various bacteria, viruses, and parasites and exhibits anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory properties. Animal-derived drugs are a major source of modern medications used around the world. The use of...
364. ...be used to treat Toxoplasmosis since it inhibited T. gondii growth. Pestalone is an antibiotic created from the marine fungus: "Pestalotia sp". M. Cueto et al. (2001–11) found that it has antibiotic **activity** against two bacteria species that have gained resistance to antibiotics: vancomycin-resistant "Enterococcus faecium" and methicillin-resistant "Staphylococcus aureus". "Zoopharmacognosy" is the study...
365. ...have been identified. Other members of the target family may have unknown function with no known ligands and hence are classified as orphan receptors. By identifying screening hits that modulate the **activity** of the less well characterized members of the target family, the function of these novel targets can be elucidated. Furthermore, the hits for these targets can be used as a starting point for drug di...
366. ...CM, the therapeutic class of ‘toning and replenishing medicine” was evaluated. Therapeutic actions (or phenotypes) for that class include anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, neuroprotective, hypoglycemic **activity**, immunomodulatory, antimetastatic, and hypotensive. Sodium-glucose transport proteins and PTP1B (an insulin signaling regulator) were identified as targets which link to the hypoglycemic phenotype su...
367. ...s to see the arteries of the heart. If the doctors suspect that the heart disease is getting worse, they can prescribe a stress test, which is a test that measures how the heart works during physical **activity**. People who have symptoms or show signs of reduced blood flow to the heart in a stress test may need to have a diagnostic cardiac re-catheterization. After PCI-stenting procedures, physical examinati...
368. ...or more complex coronary problems may need to have angiography. This may be the case even if the results of non-invasive stress tests, which are tests that measure how the heart works during physical **activity**, appear normal. Cardiac rehabilitation activities depend on many factors, but mainly on how much the heart muscle was damaged before the PCI/DES procedure. Many people who have this procedure have no...
369. ...ant changes in chemical structure. The main use of this term and its techniques are related to pharmaceutical sciences. Bioisosterism is used to reduce toxicity, change bioavailability, or modify the **activity** of the lead compound, and may alter the metabolism of the lead. Classical bioisosterism was originally formulated by James Moir and refined by Irving Langmuir as a response to the observation that di...
370. ...such metabolism from taking place. Because the fluorine atom is similar in size to the hydrogen atom the overall topology of the molecule is not significantly affected, leaving the desired biological **activity** unaffected. However, with a blocked pathway for metabolism, the drug candidate may have a longer half-life. Another example is seen in a series of anti-bacterial chalcones. By modifying certain subst...
371. ...blocked pathway for metabolism, the drug candidate may have a longer half-life. Another example is seen in a series of anti-bacterial chalcones. By modifying certain substituents, the pharmacological **activity** of the chalcone and its toxicity are also modified. Non-classical bioisosteres may differ in a multitude of ways from classical bioisosteres, but retain the focus on providing similar sterics and ele...
372. ...example, a chloride -Cl group may often be replaced by a trifluoromethyl -CF group or by a cyano -C≡N group. Depending on the particular molecule used, the substitution may result in little change in **activity**, or either increased or decreased affinity or efficacy - depending on what factors are important for ligand binding to the target protein. Another example is aromatic rings, where a phenyl -CH ring c...
373. ...and experience. Sex and drugs date back to ancient humans and have been interlocked throughout human history. Sexual performance is known as the execution of the act of sex and the quality of sexual **activity**. This includes elements such as libido (a person's sexual drive), sexual function (including erection in males and vaginal lubrication in females), sensation (the ability to achieve orgasm). Drugs ar...
374. ...dies, up to 22.1% of teenagers abused substances during their most recent sexual experience. Likewise, studies have shown adolescents who regularly abuse substances are more likely to initiate sexual **activity** at an earlier age, have a more significant number of sexual partners, and engage in unprotected sex more often. Additionally, substance abuse has been linked to an increased risk of sexually transmit...
375. ...e victims in these cases are drinking voluntarily which then makes them unable to make informed decisions or give consent. Party and play, or chemsex, is the consumption of drugs to facilitate sexual **activity**. Sociologically, both terms refer to a subculture of recreational drug users who engage in high-risk sexual activities under the influence of drugs within groups. The term PnP is commonly used by gay...
376. ...e with eight parts of the juice of a plant, and one of sugar, seethed together into the consistency of honey. Enzyme inhibitor An enzyme inhibitor is a molecule that binds to an enzyme and blocks its **activity**. Enzymes are proteins that speed up chemical reactions necessary for life, in which substrate molecules are converted into products. An enzyme facilitates a specific chemical reaction by binding the...
377. ...nd to the enzyme, the enzyme-substrate complex, or both. Enzyme inhibitors play an important role in all cells, since they are generally specific to one enzyme each and serve to control that enzyme's **activity**. For example, enzymes in a metabolic pathway may be inhibited by molecules produced later in the pathway, thus curtailing the production of molecules that are no longer needed. This type of negative...
378. ...me inhibitors also control essential enzymes such as proteases or nucleases that, if left unchecked, may damage a cell. Many poisons produced by animals or plants are enzyme inhibitors that block the **activity** of crucial enzymes in prey or predators. Many drug molecules are enzyme inhibitors that inhibit an aberrant human enzyme or an enzyme critical for the survival of a pathogen such as a virus, bacteriu...
379. ...otein interactions. A special case of protein enzyme inhibitors are zymogens that contain an autoinhibitory N-terminal peptide that binds to the active site of enzyme that intramolecularly blocks its **activity** as a protective mechanism against uncontrolled catalysis. The Nterminal peptide is cleaved (split) from the zymogen enzyme precursor by another enzyme to release an active enzyme. The binding site of...
380. ...1963. They are classified according to the effect of the inhibitor on the "V" (maximum reaction rate catalysed by the enzyme) and "K" (the concentration of substrate resulting in half maximal enzyme **activity**) as the concentration of the enzyme's substrate is varied. In competitive inhibition the substrate and inhibitor cannot bind to the enzyme at the same time. This usually results from the inhibitor ha...
381. ...e ES complex thus decreasing the "K" which indicates a higher binding affinity). Uncompetitive inhibition is rare. In non-competitive inhibition the binding of the inhibitor to the enzyme reduces its **activity** but does not affect the binding of substrate. This type of inhibitor binds with equal affinity to the free enzyme as to the enzyme-substrate complex. It can be thought of as having the ability of com...
382. ...no inhibition. To account for this the equation can be easily modified to allow for different degrees of inhibition by including a delta "V" term. or This term can then define the residual enzymatic **activity** present when the inhibitor is interacting with individual enzymes in the population. However the inclusion of this term has the added value of allowing for the possibility of activation if the second...
383. ...cult to measure directly, since the enzyme-substrate complex is short-lived and undergoing a chemical reaction to form the product. Hence, "K"' is usually measured indirectly, by observing the enzyme **activity** under various substrate and inhibitor concentrations, and fitting the data via nonlinear regression to a modified Michaelis–Menten equation. where the modifying factors α and α' are defined by the in...
384. ...es effectively irreversible, hence it is more practical to treat such tight-binding inhibitors as irreversible (see below). The effects of different types of reversible enzyme inhibitors on enzymatic **activity** can be visualised using graphical representations of the Michaelis–Menten equation, such as Lineweaver–Burk, Eadie-Hofstee or Hanes-Woolf plots. An illustration is provided by the three Lineweaver–Bu...
385. ...te these constants using more reliable nonlinear regression methods. The mechanism of partially competitive inhibition is similar to that of non-competitive, except that the EIS complex has catalytic **activity**, which may be lower or even higher (partially competitive activation) than that of the enzyme–substrate (ES) complex. This inhibition typically displays a lower "V", but an unaffected "K" value. Subs...
386. ...ither an enzymes substrate or product also act as an inhibitor. This inhibition may follow the competitive, uncompetitive or mixed patterns. In substrate inhibition there is a progressive decrease in **activity** at high substrate concentrations, potentially from an enzyme having two competing substrate-binding sites. At low substrate, the high-affinity site is occupied and normal kinetics are followed. Howev...
387. ...ng on how long the inhibitor is pre-incubated with the enzyme. Instead, "k"/["I"] values are used, where "k" is the observed pseudo-first order rate of inactivation (obtained by plotting the log of % **activity** versus time) and ["I"] is the concentration of inhibitor. The "k"/["I"] parameter is valid as long as the inhibitor does not saturate binding with the enzyme (in which case "k" = "k") where "k" is th...
388. ...ic reaction of the irreversible inhibitor with the active site. The binding and inactivation steps of this reaction are investigated by incubating the enzyme with inhibitor and assaying the amount of **activity** remaining over time. The activity will be decreased in a time-dependent manner, usually following exponential decay. Fitting these data to a rate equation gives the rate of inactivation at this conce...
389. ...hibitor with the active site. The binding and inactivation steps of this reaction are investigated by incubating the enzyme with inhibitor and assaying the amount of activity remaining over time. The **activity** will be decreased in a time-dependent manner, usually following exponential decay. Fitting these data to a rate equation gives the rate of inactivation at this concentration of inhibitor. This is don...
390. ...rs. This mechanism occurs in the pancreas, which synthesises many digestive precursor enzymes known as zymogens. Many of these are activated by the trypsin protease, so it is important to inhibit the **activity** of trypsin in the pancreas to prevent the organ from digesting itself. One way in which the activity of trypsin is controlled is the production of a specific and potent trypsin inhibitor protein in t...
391. ...s zymogens. Many of these are activated by the trypsin protease, so it is important to inhibit the activity of trypsin in the pancreas to prevent the organ from digesting itself. One way in which the **activity** of trypsin is controlled is the production of a specific and potent trypsin inhibitor protein in the pancreas. This inhibitor binds tightly to trypsin, preventing the trypsin activity that would othe...
392. ...ay in which the activity of trypsin is controlled is the production of a specific and potent trypsin inhibitor protein in the pancreas. This inhibitor binds tightly to trypsin, preventing the trypsin **activity** that would otherwise be detrimental to the organ. Although the trypsin inhibitor is a protein, it avoids being hydrolysed as a substrate by the protease by excluding water from trypsin's active site...
393. ...ule cyclic guanosine monophosphate. This signalling molecule triggers smooth muscle relaxation and allows blood flow into the corpus cavernosum, which causes an erection. Since the drug decreases the **activity** of the enzyme that halts the signal, it makes this signal last for a longer period of time. Drugs are also used to inhibit enzymes needed for the survival of pathogens. For example, bacteria are surr...
394. ...vasoactive substance is an endogenous agent or pharmaceutical drug that has the effect of either increasing or decreasing blood pressure and/or heart rate through its vasoactivity, that is, vascular **activity** (effect on blood vessels). By adjusting vascular compliance and vascular resistance, typically through vasodilation and vasoconstriction, it helps the body's homeostatic mechanisms (such as the renin...
395. ...such polyphenols have not been demonstrated to be antioxidants in vivo.  In vitro at high experimental doses, polyphenols may affect cell-to-cell signaling, receptor sensitivity, inflammatory enzyme **activity** or gene regulation. None of these hypothetical effects has been confirmed in humans by high-quality clinical research, . The main source of polyphenols is dietary, since they are found in a wide arra...
396. ...molecular hydrogen bonding, as proposed for quercetin, or combine to yield dimerisation products, thus terminating the chain reaction: Consuming dietary polyphenols have been evaluated for biological **activity** in vitro, but there is no evidence from high-quality clinical research that they have effects in vivo. Preliminary research has been conducted and regulatory status was reviewed in 2009 by the U.S. F...
397. ...the complexity of sorption process the isotherms cannot be determined explicitly by calculation, but must be recorded experimentally for each product. The relationship between water content and water **activity** (a) is complex. An increase in a is usually accompanied by an increase in water content, but in a non-linear fashion. This relationship between water activity and moisture content at a given temperat...
398. ...tionship between water content and water activity (a) is complex. An increase in a is usually accompanied by an increase in water content, but in a non-linear fashion. This relationship between water **activity** and moisture content at a given temperature is called the moisture sorption isotherm. These curves are determined experimentally and constitute the fingerprint of a food system. BET theory (Brunauer-...
399. ...e vertical axis, provide the ratio of the weight of water adsorbed divided by its dry weight, or that ratio converted into a percentage. On the horizontal axis they provide relative humidity or water **activity** of the air presented to the material. Sorption Isotherms are named as such because the equilibrium established must be for a constant temperature and this temperature should be specified. Normally, m...
400. ...eceptor interaction while being agnostic of the chemical structure used as a query. Various other fields are used in these methods, such as electrostatic or hydrophobic fields. Quantitative-Structure **Activity** Relationship (QSAR) models consist of predictive models based on information extracted from a set of known active and known inactive compounds. SAR's (Structure Activity Relationship) where data is t...
401. ...ields. Quantitative-Structure Activity Relationship (QSAR) models consist of predictive models based on information extracted from a set of known active and known inactive compounds. SAR's (Structure **Activity** Relationship) where data is treated qualitatively and can be used with structural classes and more than one binding mode. Models prioritize compounds for lead discovery. Machine learning algorithms h...
402. ...d based on its probability. The first Machine Learning model used on large datasets is the Substructure Analysis that was created in 1973. Each fragment substructure make a continuous contribution an **activity** of specific type. Substructure is a method that overcomes the difficulty of massive dimensionality when it comes to analyzing structures in drug design. An efficient substructure analysis is used for...
403. ...whole cells or components of cells with simultaneous readout of several parameters. HCS is related to high-throughput screening (HTS), in which thousands of compounds are tested in parallel for their **activity** in one or more biological assays, but involves assays of more complex cellular phenotypes as outputs. Phenotypic changes may include increases or decreases in the production of cellular products such...
404. ...eceptor function through chemical genetics, systematic genome wide screening or physiological manipulation. At a cellular level, parallel acquisition of data on different cell properties, for example **activity** of signal transduction cascades and cytoskeleton integrity is the main advantage of this method in comparison to the faster but less detailed high throughput screening. While HCS is slower, the wealt...
405. ...nal mandate to take down online pharmacies, stating in one post on its website, "that ICANN is not a court and is not empowered to resolve disputes when parties disagree over what constitutes illegal **activity** in multiple countries around the world." The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a non-profit organization defending civil rights on the Internet, views the influence of the pharmaceutical industry on th...
406. ...d. If Drug B is also given, it can displace Drug A from the protein, thereby increasing Drug A's fraction unbound. This may increase the effects of Drug A, since only the unbound fraction may exhibit **activity**.  Note that for Drug A, the % increase in unbound fraction is 100% – hence, Drug A's pharmacological effect can potentially double (depending on whether the free molecules get to their target before...
407. ...rich phase by a chemical attack with aqueous solutions of HCl or NaOH to form the final Ag foam. This creates the nanoscale pores of the foam. Silver ions have been shown to have potent antibacterial **activity**, and have been shown to affect the growth of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. This is due to their ability to form ligand complexes with proteins or enzymes in bacterial cells. Due to this u...
408. .... It was found that on average silver nanofoams can maintain over 90% FECO in a wide potential window (−0.5 to −1.2 VRHE), enabling the maximum CO selective current density of 33 mA cm−2 and the mass **activity** of 23.5 A gAg−1, which are the highest values among recently reported metal foam-based electrocatalysts. Carbon nanofoam is an allotrope of carbon discovered in 1997. Its structure consists of a clus...
409. ...ized among the top 10 US law firms for pro bono work in "The American Lawyer" Pro Bono Survey, an annual report that rates the nation's 200 highest-grossing law firms based on their level of pro bono **activity**. The report confirmed that it remained the top law firm for international pro bono work. In August 2014, Dechert received the American Bar Association's (ABA) Pro Bono Publico Award. In 2020, Dechert...
410. ...ns. Magnesium acts as an allosteric inhibitor for the enzyme vacuolar pyrophosphatase (V-PPase). In vitro, the concentration of free magnesium acts as a strict regulator and stabilizer for the enzyme **activity** of V-PPase. Manganese like magnesium plays a crucial role as a co-factor in various enzymes though its concentration is noticeably lower than the other. Enzymes that use manganese as a co-factor are...
411. ...hen generated near DNA can cause point mutations, cross-linkage and breaks. The second being the bolstering of the growth of neoplastic cells by suppressing host defenses. Excessive iron inhibits the **activity** of CD lymphocytes and suppresses the tumoricidal activity of macrophages. The third way it can act as a carcinogen is by functioning as an essential nutrient for unrestricted proliferation of tumor c...
412. ...nkage and breaks. The second being the bolstering of the growth of neoplastic cells by suppressing host defenses. Excessive iron inhibits the activity of CD lymphocytes and suppresses the tumoricidal **activity** of macrophages. The third way it can act as a carcinogen is by functioning as an essential nutrient for unrestricted proliferation of tumor cells. Lithium is present in biological systems in trace am...
413. ...biomolecules containing metallic elements. The "de novo design" of structures involving metals in the function of the biomolecule itself is done in a biomimetic fashion but also to enable non-natural **activity** in biomolecules. Metal ions and metallic compounds are often used in medical treatments and diagnoses. Compounds containing metal ions can be used as medicine, such as lithium compounds and auranofin...
414. ...eant ion) but, as per the pump-leak model, it is extruded by the Na/K-ATPase. Because there is a difference in concentration of ions on either side of the membrane, the pH (defined using the relative **activity**) may also differ when protons are involved. In many instances, from ultrafiltration of proteins to ion exchange chromatography, the pH of the buffer adjacent to the charged groups of the membrane is...
415. ....g., thiomersal) and arsenic (e.g. Salvarsan) had a long history of use in medicine as nonselective antimicrobials before the advent of modern antibiotics.  Titanocene dichloride displays anti-cancer **activity**, and dichloridobis[("p"-methoxybenzyl)cyclopentadienyl]titanium is a current anticancer drug candidate. Arene- and cyclopentadienyl complexes are kinetically inert platforms for the design of new rad...
416. ...bly transfected produced significant quantities of Factor IX, which was shown to have substantial coagulant properties, though of a lesser degree than Factor IX produced from human blood:The specific **activity** of the recombinant Factor IX was measured on the basis of direct measurement of the coagulant activity... The specific activity of recombinant Factor IX was 75 units/mg... compared to 150 units/mg me...
417. ...lant properties, though of a lesser degree than Factor IX produced from human blood:The specific activity of the recombinant Factor IX was measured on the basis of direct measurement of the coagulant **activity**... The specific activity of recombinant Factor IX was 75 units/mg... compared to 150 units/mg measured for plasma-derived Factor IX... In 1992, the FDA approved Factor VIII produced using transgenic...
418. ...f a lesser degree than Factor IX produced from human blood:The specific activity of the recombinant Factor IX was measured on the basis of direct measurement of the coagulant activity... The specific **activity** of recombinant Factor IX was 75 units/mg... compared to 150 units/mg measured for plasma-derived Factor IX... In 1992, the FDA approved Factor VIII produced using transgenic Chinese hamster ovary cel...
419. ...nthesized by a linear nonribosomal peptide synthetase, surfactin synthetase (). In solution, it has a characteristic "horse saddle" conformation (PDB: ) that explains its large spectrum of biological **activity**. Surfactin, like other surfactants, affects the surface tension of liquids in which it is dissolved. It can lower the water's surface tension from 72 mN/m to 27 mN/m at concentrations as low as 20 μM...
420. ...n of mixed micelles by self-association and bilayer influenced by fatty chain hydrophobicity ultimately leading to bilayer solubilization. Surfactin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic with detergent-like **activity** increasing the permeability of cell membranes in all bacteria, regardless of their Gram stain classification. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of surfactin is between 12-50 μg/ml. Surfactin...
421. ...r, surfactin can only degrade viruses when they are outside of host cells. Furthermore, when the environment is packed with proteins and lipids, surfactin faces a buffer effect lowering its antiviral **activity**. Surfactin has non-specific cytotoxicity, causing lysis through disruption to the phospholipid bilayer present in all cells. When injected into humans as an intravascular antibiotic at concentrations...
422. ...s: The project team will usually select between three and six compound series to be further explored. The next step will allow the testing of analogous compounds to determine a quantitative structure-**activity** relationship (QSAR). Analogs can be quickly selected from an internal library or purchased from commercially available sources ("SAR by catalog" or "SAR by purchase"). Medicinal chemists will also st...
423. ...stive of reasonable "in vivo" pharmacokinetics. This optimization is accomplished through chemical modification of the hit structure, with modifications chosen by employing knowledge of the structure–**activity** relationship (SAR) as well as structure-based design if structural information about the target is available. Lead optimization is concerned with experimental testing and confirmation of the compound...
424. ...e is agreement in the New Zealand parliament to resume the establishment process. The Australian government was informed and agreed to the postponement. But despite completing its first harmonization **activity** in 2014, Australian and New Zealand officials have now decided to end the ANZTPA effort, saying a "comprehensive review of progress and [an] assessment of the costs and benefits to each country" had...
425. ...persed system, ion dissolution arises, where the dispersed particles exist in equilibrium with their saturated counterpart, for example: The behavior of this system is characterised by the components **activity** coefficients and solubility product: In clay-aqueous systems the potential of the surface is determined by the activity of ions which react with the mineral surface. Frequently this is the hydrogen i...
426. ...rt, for example: The behavior of this system is characterised by the components activity coefficients and solubility product: In clay-aqueous systems the potential of the surface is determined by the **activity** of ions which react with the mineral surface. Frequently this is the hydrogen ion H in which case the important activity is determined by pH. The simultaneous adsorption of protons and hydroxyls as w...
427. ...uct: In clay-aqueous systems the potential of the surface is determined by the activity of ions which react with the mineral surface. Frequently this is the hydrogen ion H in which case the important **activity** is determined by pH. The simultaneous adsorption of protons and hydroxyls as well as other potential determining cations and anions, leads to the concept of point of zero charge or PZC, where the tot...
428. ...nt aggregation of proteins at normal physiologic concentrations and to be approximately an order of magnitude more effective than sodium xylene sulfonate in a classic hydrotrope assay. The hydrotrope **activity** of ATP was shown to be independent of its activity as an "energy currency" in cells. Additionally, ATP function as biological hydrotope has been shown proteome-wide under near native conditions. In a...
429. ...ncentrations and to be approximately an order of magnitude more effective than sodium xylene sulfonate in a classic hydrotrope assay. The hydrotrope activity of ATP was shown to be independent of its **activity** as an "energy currency" in cells. Additionally, ATP function as biological hydrotope has been shown proteome-wide under near native conditions. In a recent study, however, the hydrotropic capabilitie...
430. ...an infusion (one teaspoon per cup) for about five to ten minutes. Party and play Party and play (PnP), also known as chemsex or wired play, refers to the practice of consuming drugs to enhance sexual **activity**. This sexual subculture involves recreational drug users engaging in high-risk sexual behaviors under the influence of drugs, often within specific sub-groups. Activities may include unprotected sex...
431. ...esses autonomic response and can cause sores and abrasions in the mouth. Open wounds or damaged mucous membranes can turn typically low-HIV-risk sex acts such as oral sex into much-higher-risk sexual **activity** unless all HIV-positive participants are undetectable on HAART, and all HIV-negative participants are taking pre-exposure prophylaxis in strict accordance with prescription instructions. Men who PNP...
432. ...egradation and therefore its mitigation. Formulation studies then consider such factors as particle size, polymorphism, pH, and solubility, as all of these can influence bioavailability and hence the **activity** of a drug. The drug must be combined with inactive ingredients by a method that ensures that the quantity of drug present is consistent in each dosage unit e.g. each tablet. The dosage should have a...
433. ...lly used for allergy relief, although it may be used to alleviate sleeping problems, anxiety, and overall restlessness. Effects may include euphoria, hallucinations, or psychosis. The anticholinergic **activity** of diphenhydramine may lead to tachycardia, dry mouth, blurred vision, mydriasis, depression, and urinary retention. In 2020, purposeful overmedication with Benadryl (diphenhydramine) was a concern d...
434. ...ine, dextromethorphan, ibogaine, and ethanol, all of which bind to multiple receptors or influence multiple receptor systems. There may be instances of advantages to drugs that exhibit multi-receptor **activity** such as the anti-addictive drug ibogaine that acts within a broad range of neurohormonal systems where activity is also exhibited by drugs commonly associated with addiction including opioids, nicoti...
435. ...ptor systems. There may be instances of advantages to drugs that exhibit multi-receptor activity such as the anti-addictive drug ibogaine that acts within a broad range of neurohormonal systems where **activity** is also exhibited by drugs commonly associated with addiction including opioids, nicotine, and alcohol. Similarly chlorpromazine is primarily used as an antipsychotic, but its strong serotonin recept...
436. ...renal tubules. Clozapine and latrepirdine are examples of drugs used in the treatment of CNS disorders that have a superior efficacy precisely "because" of their "multifarious" broadspectrum mode of **activity**. Likewise, in cancer chemotherapeutics, it has been recognized that drugs active at more than one target have a higher probability of being efficacious. The anti-histamine and anti-cholinergic effect...
437. ...8, but since then the venue has tended to alternate between the UK and other European venues outside the UK. The full list of conference locations is shown below: Prioritization Prioritization is the **activity** that arranges items or activities in order of urgency. In the context of medical evaluation it is the establishment of the importance or the urgency of actions that are necessary to preserve the welf...
438. ...fe for gamma emission is 6.0058 hours (meaning 93.7% of it decays to Tc in 24 hours). The relatively "short" physical half-life of the isotope and its biological half-life of 1 day (in terms of human **activity** and metabolism) allows for scanning procedures which collect data rapidly but keep total patient radiation exposure low. The same characteristics make the isotope unsuitable for therapeutic use. Tech...
439. ...able one at the same energy. Depending on the time required to process the target material and recovery of Tc, the amount of Tc relative to Tc will continue to decrease, in turn reducing the specific **activity** of Tc available. It has been reported that ingrowth of Tc as well as the presence of other Tc isotopes can negatively affect subsequent labelling and/or imaging; however, the use of high purity Mo ta...
440. ...tities. And because technetium-99m has a short half-life, its quick decay into the far less radioactive technetium-99 results in relatively low total radiation dose to the patient per unit of initial **activity** after administration, as compared with other radioisotopes. In the form administered in these medical tests (usually pertechnetate), technetium-99m and technetium-99 are eliminated from the body with...
441. ...s not to be confused with the "bone density scan", DEXA, which is a low-exposure X-ray test measuring bone density to look for osteoporosis and other diseases where bones lose mass without rebuilding **activity**. The nuclear medicine technique is sensitive to areas of unusual bone rebuilding activity, since the radiopharmaceutical is taken up by osteoblast cells which build bone. The technique therefore is s...
442. ...t measuring bone density to look for osteoporosis and other diseases where bones lose mass without rebuilding activity. The nuclear medicine technique is sensitive to areas of unusual bone rebuilding **activity**, since the radiopharmaceutical is taken up by osteoblast cells which build bone. The technique therefore is sensitive to fractures and bone reaction to bone tumors, including metastases. For a bone s...
443. ...e's first manufacturing and development centre for snuff. The Spanish called snuff "polvo" or "rapé". At first they were independent production mills dispersed within the city; state control over the **activity** later concentrated the production to one location opposite the Church of San Pedro. By the mid-18th century it was decided to build a large and grand industrial building outside the city walls, and t...
444. ...angeably. Drug action is highly specific and their effects may only be detected in certain individuals. For instance, the 10 highest-grossing drugs in the US may help only 4-25% of people. Often, the **activity** of a drug depends on the genotype of a patient. For example, Erbitux (cetuximab) increases the survival rate of colorectal cancer patients if they carry a particular mutation in the EGFR gene. Some d...
445. ...roughput screening and other research activities to identify hits that can be developed into candidate drugs. Drug discovery depends on methods by which many different chemicals are assayed for their **activity**. These chemicals are stored as physical quantities in a chemical library or libraries which are often assembled from both outside vendors and internal chemical synthesis efforts. These chemical libra...
446. ...se may be quantal (e.g. positive/negative) or quantitative (e.g. growth). The goal is to relate the response to the dose, usually by interpolation techniques, and in many cases to express the potency/**activity** of the test preparation(s) relative to a standard of known potency/activity. Dilution assays can be direct or indirect. In a direct dilution assay the amount of dose needed to produce a specific (fix...
447. ...e goal is to relate the response to the dose, usually by interpolation techniques, and in many cases to express the potency/activity of the test preparation(s) relative to a standard of known potency/**activity**. Dilution assays can be direct or indirect. In a direct dilution assay the amount of dose needed to produce a specific (fixed) response is measured, so that the dose is a stochastic variable defining...
448. ...but has been almost completely replaced by aluminium hydroxide and aluminium phosphate for commercial vaccines. Aluminium salts are the most commonly-used adjuvants in human vaccines. Their adjuvant **activity** was described in 1926. The precise mechanism of aluminium salts remains unclear but some insights have been gained. It was formerly thought that they function as delivery systems by generating depots...
449. ...cale (e.g. thin films, confined fluids) and the transfer of energy, electrons, protons, and matter across environmental interfaces. As more dust enters the atmosphere due to the consequences of human **activity** (from direct effects, such as clearing of land and desertification, versus indirect effects, such as global warming), it becomes more important to understand the effects of mineral dust on the gaseou...
450. ...al methods to select screening compounds. Typically, a range of chemicals is screened against a particular drug target or disease model, and the preliminary "hits", or chemicals that show the desired **activity**, are re-screened to verify their activity. Once they are qualified as a "hit" by their repeatability and activity, these particular chemicals are registered and analysed. Chemoproteomics is a field o...
451. ...Typically, a range of chemicals is screened against a particular drug target or disease model, and the preliminary "hits", or chemicals that show the desired activity, are re-screened to verify their **activity**. Once they are qualified as a "hit" by their repeatability and activity, these particular chemicals are registered and analysed. Chemoproteomics is a field of study that incorporates the use of chemi...
452. ...rget or disease model, and the preliminary "hits", or chemicals that show the desired activity, are re-screened to verify their activity. Once they are qualified as a "hit" by their repeatability and **activity**, these particular chemicals are registered and analysed. Chemoproteomics is a field of study that incorporates the use of chemical libraries to identify protein targets. Commonalities among the diffe...
453. ...nd carcinogenic. Druglikeness indices are inherently limited tools. Druglikeness can be estimated for any molecule, and does not evaluate the actual specific effect that the drug achieves (biological **activity**). Simple rules are not always accurate and may unnecessarily limit the chemical space to search: many best-selling drugs have features that cause them to score low on various druglikeness indices. Fu...
454. ...ny best-selling drugs have features that cause them to score low on various druglikeness indices. Furthermore, first-pass metabolism, which is biochemically selective, can destroy the pharmacological **activity** of a compound despite good druglikeness. Druglikeness is not relevant for most biologics, since they are usually proteins that need to be injected, because proteins are digested if eaten. Saw palmett...
455. ...d A lead compound (, i.e. a "leading" compound, not to be confused with various compounds of the metallic element lead) in drug discovery is a chemical compound that has pharmacological or biological **activity** likely to be therapeutically useful, but may nevertheless have suboptimal structure that requires modification to fit better to the target; lead drugs offer the prospect of being followed by back-up...
456. ...quickly spread to the rest of the world. In regions like India and Sub-Saharan Africa, it merged with existing practices of smoking (mostly of cannabis). In Europe, it introduced a new type of social **activity** and a form of drug intake which previously had been unknown. Perception surrounding smoking has varied over time and from one place to another: holy and sinful, sophisticated and vulgar, a panacea an...
457. ...how the existence of pipes to smoke opium in Cyprus and Crete as soon as the Bronze Age. Cannabis smoking was common in the Middle East before the arrival of tobacco, and was early on a common social **activity** that centered around the type of water pipe called a hookah. Smoking, especially after the introduction of tobacco, was an essential component of Muslim society and culture and became integrated with...
458. ...tes; people could therefore be given a choice of how to quit, and support provided to people who would specifically like to reduce their smoking before quitting." Smoking, primarily of tobacco, is an **activity** that is practiced by some 1.1 billion people, and up to 1/3 of the adult population. The image of the smoker can vary considerably, but is very often associated, especially in fiction, with individua...
459. ...on. The image of the smoker can vary considerably, but is very often associated, especially in fiction, with individuality and aloofness. Even so, smoking of both tobacco and cannabis can be a social **activity** which serves as a reinforcement of social structures and is part of the cultural rituals of many and diverse social and ethnic groups. Many smokers begin smoking in social settings and the offering a...
460. ...values and displayed his contempt for conservatism. But this was a pleasure that was to be confined to a male world; women smokers were associated with prostitution and smoking was not considered an **activity** fit for proper ladies. It was not until the start of the 20th century that smoking women would appear in paintings and photos, giving a chic and charming impression. Impressionists like Vincent van G...
461. ...r, most notably in the film "Breakfast at Tiffany's". Smoking could also be used as a means to subvert censorship, as two cigarettes burning unattended in an ashtray were often used to suggest sexual **activity**. Since World War II, smoking has gradually become less frequent on screen as the obvious health hazards of smoking have become more widely known. With the anti-smoking movement gaining greater respec...
462. ...ve oxygen species. Iron from this pool can be taken up by mitochondria via mitoferrin to synthesize Fe-S clusters and heme groups. Iron can be stored in ferritin as ferric iron due to the ferroxidase **activity** of the ferritin heavy chain. Dysfunctional ferritin may accumulate as hemosiderin, which can be problematic in cases of iron overload. The ferritin storage iron pool is much larger than the labile ir...
463. ...nd IRP2 under iron deficiency, stabilizing the mRNA, which guarantees the synthesis of iron importers. Iron plays an essential role in marine systems and can act as a limiting nutrient for planktonic **activity**. Because of this, too much of a decrease in iron may lead to a decrease in growth rates in phytoplanktonic organisms such as diatoms. Iron can also be oxidized by marine microbes under conditions tha...
464. ...d biologically active compounds. This involves testing the crude extract or preliminary fractions from chromatography in an assay or multiple assays, determining what fractions or crude extracts show **activity** in the specific assays, and further fractionating the active fractions or extracts. This step is than repeated where the new fractions are tested and the active fractions are further fractionated. Th...
465. ...withdrawal rebound symptoms, benzoctamine did not. It was also found that benzoctamine reduced plasma corticosteroid hormone levels. There is a relationship between anxiety and adreno-corticosteroid **activity**, with raised levels commonly being reported as an indication of stress. The study showed that benzoctamine, a drug reported to reduce anxiety, was also able to reduce the hormones that potentially ca...
466. ...lasma concentrations is 1 hour and the volume of distribution for a 70 kg person is 1–2 L/kg. Potency (pharmacology) In pharmacology, potency or biological potency is a measure of a drug's biological **activity** expressed in terms of the dose required to produce a pharmacological effect of given intensity. A highly potent drug (e.g., fentanyl, clonazepam, risperidone, benperidol, bumetanide) evokes a given r...
467. ...e right to the protection of health, and states employers must provide vaccines to workers if they are at risk of exposure. Due to vaccination coverage in each Community, there is little anti-vaccine **activity** or opposition to the current schedule, and no organized groups against vaccines. The universal public health care provides coverage for all residents, while central and regional support programs exte...
468. ...his kind of the DIY approach is also applicable to the qualifications of software, computer operating systems and a manufacturing process. The most important and critical task as the last step of the **activity** is to generating and archiving machinery/equipment qualification reports for auditing purposes, if regulatory compliances are mandatory. Qualification of machinery/equipment is venue dependent, in pa...
469. ...ural language terms) found within a chemical database of chemical structures. This process derives latent chemical structure concepts that can be used to calculate chemical similarities and structure–**activity** relationships for drug discovery. Applicability domain The applicability domain (AD) (for both chemistry and machine learning) of a QSAR model is the physico-chemical, structural or biological space,...
470. ...or occupancy model, which describes agonist and competitive antagonists, was built on the work of Langley, Hill, and Clark. The occupancy model was the first model put forward by Clark to explain the **activity** of drugs at receptors and quantified the relationship between drug concentration and observed effect. It is based on mass-action kinetics and attempts to link the action of a drug to the proportion o...
471. ...ct curve produced by a competitive antagonist. Attempts to separate the binding phenomenon and activation phenomenon were made by Ariëns in 1954 and by Stephenson in 1956 to account for the intrinsic **activity** (efficacy) of a drug (that is, its ability to induce an effect after binding). Classic occupational models of receptor activation failed to provide evidence to directly support the idea that receptor...
472. ...it was insufficient to explain the concept of a partial agonist. This led to the development of agonist models of drug action by Ariens in 1954 and by Stephenson in 1956 to account for the intrinsic **activity** (efficacy) of a drug (that is, its ability to induce an effect after binding). The two-state model is a simple linear model to describe the interaction between a ligand and its receptor, but also the...
473. ...ucture of DRD2 in complex with the atypical antipsychotic risperidone has been determined. D receptors are coupled to G subtype of G protein. This G protein-coupled receptor inhibits adenylyl cyclase **activity**. In mice, regulation of DR surface expression by the neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1) in the dentate gyrus is involved in exploration, synaptic plasticity and memory formation. Studies have shown po...
474. ...atin that has the greatest number of bonding interactions with HGMR. All statins have the same pharmacophore so the difference in their pharmacodynamic effect is mostly based on the substituents. The **activity** of each statin is dependent on the binding affinity of the compound for the substrate site and the length of time it binds to the site. Type 2 statins have unique fluorophenyl group that causes addit...
475. ...opened up for the rational design and optimization of even better HGMR inhibitors. A new study using comparative molecular field analysis (CoMFA) to establish three-dimensional quantitative structure-**activity** relationship (3D QSAR), while searching for novel active pharmacophores as potentially potent HGMR inhibitors, was recently published. Using this novel technique researchers were able to screen for c...
476. ...on of an anti-infective agent to its effect, specifically to its antimicrobial effect. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and minimum bactericidal concentration are used to measure "in vitro" **activity** of antimicrobial agents. They are good indicators of antimicrobial potency, but don't give any information relating to time-dependent antimicrobial killing (the so-called post antibiotic effect). The...
477. ...g-Pro-Gln-Ile-Pro-Pro), which was originally isolated from the venom of the Brazilian pit viper "Bothrops jararaca", greatly clarified the importance of ACE in hypertension. However, its lack of oral **activity** limited its therapeutic utility. L-benzylsuccinic acid (2(R)-benzyl-3-carboxypropionic acid) was described to be the most potent inhibitor of carboxypeptidase A in the early 1980s. The authors referr...
478. ...line. Then the search for a better zinc-binding group started. Replacement of the succinyl carboxyl group by nitrogen-containing functionalities (amine, amide or guanidine) did not enhance inhibitory **activity**. However a potency breakthrough was achieved by the replacement of the carboxyl group with a sulfhydryl function (SH), a group with greater affinity for the enzyme bound zinc ion. This yielded a pote...
479. ...elieved to mimic the tetrahedron transition state of the proteolytic reaction at the active site. The focus was on a simple tripeptide Phe-Ala-Pro, which in earlier enzyme assays has shown inhibition **activity**. Replacement of alanine with glycin gave a tripeptide with 1/14th of the inhibition activity of Phe-Ala-Pro. The benzoylated derivative of Phe-Gly-Pro, Bz-Phe-Gly-Pro, was twice as active. To reduce...
480. ...ite. The focus was on a simple tripeptide Phe-Ala-Pro, which in earlier enzyme assays has shown inhibition activity. Replacement of alanine with glycin gave a tripeptide with 1/14th of the inhibition **activity** of Phe-Ala-Pro. The benzoylated derivative of Phe-Gly-Pro, Bz-Phe-Gly-Pro, was twice as active. To reduce the peptidic nature of ketomethylene inhibitors the P’ and P’ substituent may be cyclized to...
481. ...substitution α to nitrogen and making of 3-methyl-substituted analog of A58365A, a pyridone acid isolated from the fermentation broth of the bacterium "Streptomyces chromofuscus" with ACE inhibitory **activity**, might influence the level of biological activity by steric or hydrophobic effect, and/or by preventing reactions at C3. It was also noticed during the synthetic work on A58365A that potential precur...
482. ...-substituted analog of A58365A, a pyridone acid isolated from the fermentation broth of the bacterium "Streptomyces chromofuscus" with ACE inhibitory activity, might influence the level of biological **activity** by steric or hydrophobic effect, and/or by preventing reactions at C3. It was also noticed during the synthetic work on A58365A that potential precursors were sensitive to oxidation of the five-membe...
483. ...enes. Indirect agonist In pharmacology, an indirect agonist or indirect-acting agonist is a substance that enhances the release or action of an endogenous neurotransmitter but has no specific agonist **activity** at the neurotransmitter receptor itself. Indirect agonists work through varying mechanisms to achieve their effects, including transporter blockade, induction of transmitter release, and inhibition o...
484. ...moment. In 2015 oxo-dimeric Fe(salen)-based magnets ("anticancer nanomagnets") in a water suspension were shown to demonstrate intrinsic room temperature ferromagnetic behavior, as well as antitumor **activity**, with possible medical applications in chemotherapy, magnetic drug delivery, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and magnetic field-induced local hyperthermia therapy. Molecule-based magnets comprise a...
485. ...the effect that the chemical compound has on reaction partners in inorganic or biological settings. Biological effects and thus also similarity of effects are usually quantified using the biological **activity** of a compound. In general terms, function can be related to the chemical activity of compounds (among others). The notion of "chemical similarity" (or "molecular similarity") is one of the most impor...
486. ...ological settings. Biological effects and thus also similarity of effects are usually quantified using the biological activity of a compound. In general terms, function can be related to the chemical **activity** of compounds (among others). The notion of "chemical similarity" (or "molecular similarity") is one of the most important concepts in cheminformatics. It plays an important role in modern approaches...
487. ...ical compounds. The similarity-based virtual screening (a kind of ligand-based virtual screening) assumes that all compounds in a database that are similar to a query compound have similar biological **activity**. Although this hypothesis is not always valid, quite often the set of retrieved compounds is considerably enriched with actives. To achieve high efficacy of similarity-based screening of databases co...
488. ...-Suppression of Misfolding In An Amyloid Disease" Science 293, 2459-2461. 2002 Sawkar, A.R.; Cheng, W-C.; Beutler, E.: Wong, C.–H.: Balch, W.E.: Kelly, J.W. "Chemical Chaperones Increase the Cellular **Activity** of N370S β-glucosidase: A Therapeutic Strategy for Gaucher Disease " Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 99, 15428-15433. 2003 Hammarstrom, P.; Wiseman, R. L.; Powers, E.T.; Kelly, J.W. "Prevention of Transthyret...
489. ...hter, Nika Soon-Shiong, became interested in the newspaper and sought to influence coverage, in both the newsroom and opinion pages. Many "Times" staffers expressed alarm at the younger Soon-Shiong's **activity**, which they viewed as meddling, including privately and publicly contacting staffers to advocate her views. In July 2023, Soon-Shiong sold the "San Diego Union-Tribune" to MediaNews Group. In October...
490. ...ding sites/ligands or extended to create a so-called "merged-feature" pharmacophore. The software has been successfully used to predict new lead structures in drug design, e.g., predicting biological **activity** of novel human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reverse transcriptase inhibitors. Other software tools which help to model pharmacophores include: Mean kinetic temperature Mean kinetic temperature (MKT)...
491. ...t (a substance that fully activates the receptor that it binds to) while under other conditions, behaves as an antagonist (a substance that binds to a receptor but does not activate and can block the **activity** of other agonists). Types of mixed agonist/antagonist include receptor ligands that act as agonist for some receptor types and antagonist for others or agonist in some tissues while antagonist in oth...
492. ...ls, which increases fluid flow in these entities. When the term "alpha blocker" is used without further qualification, it can refer to an α blocker, an α blocker, a nonselective blocker (both α and α **activity**), or an α blocker with some β activity. However, the most common type of alpha blocker is usually an α blocker. Non-selective α-adrenergic receptor antagonists include: Selective α-adrenergic recepto...
493. ...entities. When the term "alpha blocker" is used without further qualification, it can refer to an α blocker, an α blocker, a nonselective blocker (both α and α activity), or an α blocker with some β **activity**. However, the most common type of alpha blocker is usually an α blocker. Non-selective α-adrenergic receptor antagonists include: Selective α-adrenergic receptor antagonists include: Selective α-adre...
494. ...trated the same mortality and morbidity benefits, and are therefore not generally used as first or even second line agents. Another treatment for hypertension is using drugs that have both α blocking **activity**, as well as nonselective β activity, such as Labetalol or carvedilol. In low doses, labetalol and carvedilol can decrease the peripheral resistance and block the effects of isoprenaline to reduce hyp...
495. ...ity benefits, and are therefore not generally used as first or even second line agents. Another treatment for hypertension is using drugs that have both α blocking activity, as well as nonselective β **activity**, such as Labetalol or carvedilol. In low doses, labetalol and carvedilol can decrease the peripheral resistance and block the effects of isoprenaline to reduce hypertensive symptoms. Pheochromocytoma...
496. ...rare tumors are often subject to headaches, heart palpitations, and increased sweating. Phenoxybenzamine, a nonselective α and α blocker, has been used to treat pheochromocytoma. This drug blocks the **activity** of epinephrine and norepinephrine by antagonizing the alpha receptors, thus decreasing vascular resistance, increasing vasodilation, and decreasing blood pressure overall. Blockers that have both the...
497. ...ion, due to the relaxation of the prostate smooth muscle, another side effect that arises in men being treated for BPH is impotence, as well as the inability to ejaculate. However, if any ejaculation **activity** does occur, oftentimes, it results in a phenomenon called retrograde ejaculation, in which semen flows into the urinary bladder instead of exiting through the urethra. Drugs that may produce such sid...
498. ...are more risky or detrimental to health and/or which, unlike obesity, don't have additional treatment options that are both widely known and effective – like further improvements in diet and physical **activity** in the case of obesity. A study found that among U.S. Medicare beneficiaries without subsidies, 30% of prescriptions written for anticancer drugs, 22% for hepatitis C, and more than 50% for disease-m...
499. ...le of this is the drug eplerenone (aldosterone receptor antagonist), which should increase aldosterone levels, but has shown to produce atrophy of the prostate. Bioactivation is a crucial step in the **activity** of certain pharmaceuticals. Often, the parent form of the drug is not the active form and it needs to be metabolized in order to produce its therapeutic effects. In other cases, bioactivation is not...
500. ...ns, acetaminophen activates CAR, a nuclear receptor involved in the production of metabolic enzymes, which increases the metabolism of other drugs. This could either cause reactive intermediates/drug **activity** to persist for longer than necessary, or the drug will be cleared quicker than normal and prevent any therapeutic actions from occurring. Ethanol induces CYP2E1 enzymes in the liver, which can lead t...
501. ...n. Aspirin is an NSAID used to treat inflammation and pain. Overdoses or treatments in conjunction with other NSAIDs can produce additive effects, which can lead to increased oxidative stress and ROS **activity**. Chronic exposure to aspirin can lead to CNS toxicity and eventually affect respiratory function. Anti-depressants have been prescribed since the 1950s, and their prevalence has significantly increas...
502. ...c emotional response to experience. Cloninger suggested that RD is influenced by a single monoamine neurotransmitter system: the noradrenergic system and RD is correlated with low basal noradrenergic **activity**. This suggestion has led to several research experiments that have investigated and supported his hypothesis, that RD traits are indeed in part determined by norepinephrine. Measure of the RD dimensi...
503. ...utic strategy for panic patients with high reward dependence is needed. In response to a lack of social reward, individuals with high reward dependence are more likely to have increased noradrenergic **activity**. These individuals experience feelings of depression, agitation and extreme discontent, leading them to indulge in habits that reinforce reward-seeking, such as increased sexual activity or overeatin...
504. ...oradrenergic activity. These individuals experience feelings of depression, agitation and extreme discontent, leading them to indulge in habits that reinforce reward-seeking, such as increased sexual **activity** or overeating. Individuals with higher reward dependence also look for more social approval, and are more inclined to succumb to peer-pressure. They often become overly concerned with their body imag...
505. ...family is an entrepreneurial dynasty from Lyon, France, owners of the Institut Mérieux holding, founders of companies such as Sanofi Pasteur, bioMérieux (in vitro diagnostics) and Mérial (veterinary **activity**), but also of the foundations "Fondation Marcel-Mérieux" and "Fondation Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux", of the Jean Mérieux P4 laboratory and of humanitarian organisation Bioforce. Palierne equation...
506. ...ls and in the central nervous system. Prostaglandin synthesis in these sites is a key factor in the development of inflammation and hyperalgesia. COX-2 inhibitors have analgesic and anti-inflammatory **activity** by blocking the transformation of arachidonic acid into prostaglandin H2 selectively. The impetus for development of selective COX-2 inhibitors was the adverse gastrointestinal side-effects of NSAIDs...
507. ...inhibitors and served as the basic chemical model for the coxibs that are the only selective COX-2 inhibitors on the market today. DuP-697 is a diaryl heterocycle with cis-stilbene moiety. Structure **activity** relationship (SAR) studies for diaryl heterocyclic compounds have indicated that a cis-stilbene moiety and changes in the para-position of one of the aryl rings play an important role in COX-2 select...
508. ...and makes more space in the apex of the binding site. The bulky sulfonamide group in COX-2 inhibitors such as celecoxib and rofecoxib prevent the molecule from entering the COX-1 channel. For optimal **activity** and selectivity of the coxibs, a 4-methylsulfonylphenyl attached to an unsaturated (usually) five-membered ring with a vicinal lipophilic group is required (rofecoxib). The SOCH can be replaced by SO...
509. ...the substances that were responsible, namely, angiotensin I (Ang I) and Ang II. In the 1970s, scientists first observed Ang II to harm the heart and kidneys, and individuals with high levels of renin **activity** in plasma were at increased risk of myocardial infarction and stroke. With the introduction of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in the late 1970s it was confirmed that Ang II plays an i...
510. ...f Ang II, where the amino acids Asp, Ile and Phe have been replaced with Ser, Val and Ala, respectively. Saralasin was not orally bioavailable, had short duration of action and showed partial agonist **activity** and therefore it was not suitable as a drug. Thus the goal was to develop a smaller nonpeptide substance with similar inhibition and binding features. At this time, a group at DuPont had already star...
511. ...vatives. S-8307 and S-8308 have moderate potency, short duration of action and limited oral bioavailability, however they are selective and competitive AT receptor antagonists without partial agonist **activity**. A group at DuPont postulated that both Ang II and the Takeda leads were bound at the same receptor site. These two substances served as lead compounds for further optimization of AT receptor blocker...
512. ...e groups were not mimicked by the Takeda leads and therefore it was hypothesized that acidic functional groups would have to be added to the compounds. The 4-carboxy-derivative EXP-6155 had a binding **activity** which was ten-fold greater than that of S-8308 which further strengthened this hypothesis. By replacing the 4-carboxy-group with a 2-carboxy-benzamido-moiety the compound EXP-6803 was synthesized. It...
513. ...t was only active when administered intravenously. Replacing the 2-carboxy-benzamido-group with a 2-carboxy-phenyl-group created the lipophilic biphenyl-containing EXP-7711, which exhibited good oral **activity** but slightly less affinity for the AT receptor.  Then the polar carboxyl group was replaced with a more lipophilic tetrazole group in order to increase oral bioavailability and duration of action fur...
514. ...zole group that interacts with amino acids in helices 4 and 5 (Arg and Lys).  The tetrazole group has been successfully replaced by a carboxylic acid group as is the case with telmisartan.  Structure-**activity** relationship (SAR) Most of the ARBs have the same pharmacophore so the difference in their biochemical and physiological effects is mostly due to different substituents. Activity of a drug is depende...
515. ...misartan.  Structure-activity relationship (SAR) Most of the ARBs have the same pharmacophore so the difference in their biochemical and physiological effects is mostly due to different substituents. **Activity** of a drug is dependent of its affinity for the substrate site and the length of time it binds to the site. Lipophilic substituents like the linear alkyl group at the 2-position on the imidazole ring...
516. ...ts of the receptor. An acidic group like tetrazole, COH or NHSOCF at the 1-position of the biphenyl-methyl group will bind to a basic position in the receptor and are required for potent antagonistic **activity**.  In valsartan, the imidazole ring of losartan has been replaced with an acylated amino acid. Several substituents have been tried at the 4- and 5- positions on the imidazole ring. The chloro and hyd...
517. ...l-methyl group and is more potent than the tetrazole analogue.  It has been reported that imidazoles that have hydroxymethyl and carboxy groups at the 4- and 5 position, possessed potent antagonistic **activity**, caused by the hydrogen bonding and hydrophilicity of the hydroxymethyl group. It has also been reported that an hydroxy group in the 4-position on the imidazole ring, plays an important role in the...
518. ...sons have been made and candesartan, irbesartan and telmisartan appear to be slightly more effective than losartan in lowering blood pressure. This difference may be related to different strengths of **activity** at the receptor level, such as duration and strength of receptor binding. Several new nonpeptide ARBs are undergoing clinical trials or are at pre-clinical stages of development. Among these are embu...
519. ...imary, secondary or tertiary but the latter seem to give the best results. For the R substituent an electron rich sulfonamide groups and amide group has shown the best results in receptor binding and **activity**. It has been observed that a relationship is between absorption and molecular size hence larger hydrophilic molecules tended to have poor absorption. A small R substituent is necessary to maintain th...
520. ...ors) are enzyme inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4). They are used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Inhibition of the DPP-4 enzyme prolongs and enhances the **activity** of incretins that play an important role in insulin secretion and blood glucose control regulation. Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic disease that results from inability of the β-cells...
521. ...ught as tools to elucidate the functional significance of the enzyme. The first inhibitors were characterized in the late 1980s and 1990s. Each inhibitor was important to establish an early structure **activity** relationship (SAR) for subsequent investigation. The inhibitors fall into two main classes, those that interact covalently with DPP-4 and those that do not. DPP-4 is a dipeptidase that selectively bi...
522. ...position ("Figure 2"). At the active site where DPP-4 has its effect, there is a characteristic arrangement of three amino acids, Asp-His-Ser. Since alanine and proline are crucial for the biological **activity** of GPL-1 and GIP, they are inactivated by cleaving away these amino acids. Thus, preventing the degradation of the incretin hormones GLP-1 and GIP by inhibition of DPP-4 has potential as a therapeuti...
523. ...er ones. Three-dimensional models can provide a useful tool for designing novel DPP-4 inhibitors. Pharmacophore models have been made based on key chemical features of compounds with DPP-4 inhibitory **activity**. These models can provide a hypothetical picture of the primary chemical feature responsible for inhibitory activity. The first DPP-4 inhibitors were reversible inhibitors and came with bad side effe...
524. ...s have been made based on key chemical features of compounds with DPP-4 inhibitory activity. These models can provide a hypothetical picture of the primary chemical feature responsible for inhibitory **activity**. The first DPP-4 inhibitors were reversible inhibitors and came with bad side effects because of low selectivity. Researchers suspected that inhibitors with short half-lives would be preferred in ord...
525. ...ed by a hydrazine, but it is claimed that these compounds do not only act "via" DPP-4 inhibition but also prevent diabetic vascular complications by acting as a radical scavenger. Important structure-**activity** relationship: 1. Strict steric constraint exists around the pyrrolidine ring of cyanopyrrolidine-based inhibitors, with only hydrogen, fluoro, acetylene, nitrile, or methano substitution permitted. 2...
526. ...yrrolidine-based inhibitors, with only hydrogen, fluoro, acetylene, nitrile, or methano substitution permitted. 2. Presence of a nitrile moiety on the pyrrolidine ring is critical to achieving potent **activity** Also, systematic SAR investigation has shown that the ring size and stereochemistry for the P2 position is quite conditioned. A 5-membered ring and L-configuration has shown better results than a 4-m...
527. ...y changes are tolerated. On the other hand, a variety of changes can be made in the P2 position. In fact, substitution with quite big branched side chains, e.g. "tert"-butylglycin, normally increased **activity** and chemical stability, which could lead to longer-lasting inhibition of the DPP-4 enzyme. It has also been noted that biaryl-based side chains can also give highly active inhibitors. It was original...
528. ...ly lipophilic substitution would be tolerated. Now it is stated that also the substitution of polar negatively charged side-chains as well as hydrophilic substitution can lead to excellent inhibitory **activity**. In general, DPP-4 inhibitors are not very stable compounds. Therefore, many researchers focus on enhancing the stability for cyanopyrrolidines. The most widespread technique to improve chemical stab...
529. ..."Figure 5"). Thus, preventing this conversion will increase stability. This prevention was successful when incorporating an amide group into a ring, creating a compound that kept the DPP-4 inhibitory **activity** that, did not undergo the intramolecular cyclization and was even more selective over different DPP enzymes. It has also been reported that a cyanoazetidine in the P1 position and a β-amino acid in t...
530. ...roxylation at the adamantyl ring was carried out ("Figure 6"). The product, vildagliptin, was even more stable, undergoing intramolecular cyclization 30-times slower, and having high DPP-4 inhibitory **activity** and longer-lasting pharmacodynamic effect. Researchers at Bristol-Myers Squibb found that increased steric bulk of the "N"-terminal amino acid side-chain led to increased stability. To additionally i...
531. ...ine ring. It is a well-known DPP-4 inhibitor developed by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK). Biological evaluations have shown that the "S"-configuration of the amino acid portion is essential for the inhibitory **activity** since the "R"-configuration showed reluctantly inhibition. These findings will be useful in future designs and synthesis of DPP-4 inhibitors. GSK suspended Phase III clinical trials in October 2008....
532. ...after HTS. Research showed that the pyrrolidine rings were the part of the compounds that fit into the binding site. Further development has led to fluoro substituted pyrrolidines that show superior **activity**, as well as pyrrolidines with fused cyclopropylrings that are highly active. This is a different class of inhibitors that was identified with HTS. Aromatic heterocyclic-based DPP-4 inhibitors have ga...
533. ...toxic side-effects, including the induction of haemolysis. However, when Quillaia saponins, cholesterol and phospholipids are mixed under the specific stoichiometry that forms ISCOMs, this haemolytic **activity** is practically eliminated, while the adjuvant activity is retained. ISCOM-Matrix technology offers several immunological and practical advantages over currently available adjuvants. Most adjuvants on...
534. ...is. However, when Quillaia saponins, cholesterol and phospholipids are mixed under the specific stoichiometry that forms ISCOMs, this haemolytic activity is practically eliminated, while the adjuvant **activity** is retained. ISCOM-Matrix technology offers several immunological and practical advantages over currently available adjuvants. Most adjuvants on the market today mainly activate the humoral immune re...
535. ...conformational flexibility for protein functionality and offers a potential explanation for proteins showing non-Michaelis-Menten kinetics, hysteresis, and/or protein concentration dependent specific **activity**. The term "conformational disease" generally encompasses mutations that result in misfolded proteins that aggregate, such as Alzheimer's and Creutzfeldt–Jakob diseases. In light of the discovery of m...
536. ...n the long term. Although benzodiazepines can put people to sleep, while asleep, the drugs disrupt sleep architecture, decreasing sleep time, delayed and decreased REM sleep, increased alpha and beta **activity**, decreased K complexes and delta activity, and decreased deep slow-wave sleep (i.e., NREM stages 3 and 4, the most restorative part of sleep for both energy and mood). The long-term use of benzodiaze...
537. ...can put people to sleep, while asleep, the drugs disrupt sleep architecture, decreasing sleep time, delayed and decreased REM sleep, increased alpha and beta activity, decreased K complexes and delta **activity**, and decreased deep slow-wave sleep (i.e., NREM stages 3 and 4, the most restorative part of sleep for both energy and mood). The long-term use of benzodiazepines may have a similar effect on the bra...
538. ...odiazepine therapy does not result in brain abnormalities. Withdrawal from high-dose use of nitrazepam anecdotally was alleged in 2001 to have caused severe shock of the whole brain with diffuse slow **activity** on EEG in one patient after 25 years of use. After withdrawal, abnormalities in hypofrontal brain wave patterns persisted beyond the withdrawal syndrome, which suggested to the authors that organic b...

=== SHORTAGE (20 occurrences) ===
1. ...he presence of the small on-site cyclotron promises to expand in the future as the cyclotrons shrink in response to the high cost of isotope transportation to remote PET machines. In recent years the **shortage** of PET scans has been alleviated in the US, as rollout of radiopharmacies to supply radioisotopes has grown 30%/year. Because the half-life of fluorine-18 is about two hours, the prepared dose of a r...
2. ...also added a bleaching agent sodium perborate to launch the first 'self-acting' laundry detergent Persil to eliminate the laborious rubbing of laundry by hand. During the First World War, there was a **shortage** of oils and fats needed to make soap. In order to find alternatives for soap, synthetic detergents were made in Germany by chemists using raw material derived from coal tar. These early products, how...
3. ...n aged care. The aged care accreditation standards are being developed in preparation for pharmacists working in residential aged care settings to ensure that they are adequately prepared. There is a **shortage** of pharmacists at present leaving many jobs unfilled. Despite many pharmacists leaving the profession, pharmacists remain optimistic about their profession. Contract and casual work is becoming more...
4. ...onths to years for people who have participated in the trial, a so-called "extension phase", which aims to identify long-term impact of the treatment. The biggest barrier to completing studies is the **shortage** of people who take part. All drug and many device trials target a subset of the population, meaning not everyone can participate. Some drug trials require patients to have unusual combinations of dis...
5. ...les, because they were allowed to do if only it was “approved by management”. On 16 August 2018 the FDA approved the first generic EpiPen from Teva Pharmaceuticals. In an effort to address the supply **shortage** of EpiPens, on August 21, 2018 the FDA approved extending the expiration dates on some products by four months. The Sandoz division of Novartis announced on 9 July 2019 the availability of Symjepi, a...
6. ...en approved by Health Canada but is not marketed. From 2015 to 2020 the only autoinjector marketed in Canada was EpiPen and production issues led to supply shortages during that period. During a 2018 **shortage** of EpiPens, Health Canada temporarily permitted the importation of Auvi-Q autoinjectors from the United States. As of 2005, epinephrine autoinjectors were not available in most of the developing worl...
7. ...Germany's ambassador to Sudan at the time of the airstrike, Werner Daum, wrote an article in 2001, in which he called "several tens of thousands of deaths" of Sudanese civilians caused by a medicine **shortage** a "reasonable guess". Human Rights Watch reported that the bombing had the unintended effect of stopping relief efforts aimed at supplying food to areas of Sudan gripped by famine caused by that coun...
8. ...s contain potassium. Common foods very high in potassium: Foods containing the highest concentration: Diets low in potassium increase risk of hypertension, stroke and cardiovascular disease. A severe **shortage** of potassium in body fluids may cause a potentially fatal condition known as hypokalemia. Hypokalemia typically results from loss of potassium through diarrhea, diuresis, or vomiting. Symptoms are re...
9. ...as pharmacy "doctors". Instead, pharmacists refer to themselves as "apotekare" or "farmaceuter", which is an informal academic title referring to their master's degree in pharmacy. There is a severe **shortage** of pharmacists in Sweden. In 2018, the shortage was the highest ever. The education of pharmacists in Switzerland also follows the EU-harmonisation with three bachelor and two master years. A bachelo...
10. ...er to themselves as "apotekare" or "farmaceuter", which is an informal academic title referring to their master's degree in pharmacy. There is a severe shortage of pharmacists in Sweden. In 2018, the **shortage** was the highest ever. The education of pharmacists in Switzerland also follows the EU-harmonisation with three bachelor and two master years. A bachelor title is, however, not used at all professiona...
11. ...ties of Tanzanian pharmacy technicians include dispensing, stock management, compounding, quantification of pharmaceutical formulations, and laboratory work. In some areas of the country facing acute **shortage** of physicians and other clinicians, pharmacy technicians have also been found prescribing medicine. In the UK, the title "Pharmacy Technician" is a protected title. A prospective technician has two p...
12. ...ere able to identify specific neurotransmitters, such as norepinephrine (involved in the constriction of blood vessels and the increase in heart rate and blood pressure), dopamine (the chemical whose **shortage** is involved in Parkinson's disease), and serotonin (soon to be recognized as deeply connected to depression). In the 1950s, scientists also became better able to measure levels of specific neurochemi...
13. ...ic of debate in the US as well. Blood products and other human-derived biologics such as breast milk have highly regulated or very hard-to-access markets; therefore, customers generally face a supply **shortage** for these products. Institutions housing these biologics, designated as 'banks', often cannot distribute their product to customers effectively. Conversely, banks for reproductive cells are much more...
14. ...of D, D, and D receptors, are inhibitory G protein–coupled receptors. The D receptor in particular is an important target in the signaling pathway, and is connected to several neurological disorders. **Shortage** or excess of dopamine can prevent proper function and signaling of these receptors leading to disease states. Apomorphine improves motor function by activating dopamine receptors in the nigrostriatal...
15. ...s obtained with an ordinary (non-PET) nuclear scanner demonstrated the concentration of [F]FDG in that organ (see history reference below). Beginning in August 1990, and continuing throughout 1991, a **shortage** of oxygen-18, a raw material for FDG, made it necessary to ration isotope supplies. Israel's oxygen-18 facility had shut down due to the Gulf War, and the U.S. government had shut down its isotopes o...
16. ...1,663 billion units in 1944, and an estimated 6,852 billion units in 1945. By June 1944, Pfizer alone was producing 70 billion units per month. Monthly production dropped off after July 1945 due to a **shortage** of corn-steep liquor. The price offered by the CMR for a million units fell from $200 in 1943 (), which was below its manufacturing cost, to $6 in 1945 ().  The chairman of the NRC committee on chemo...
17. ...ammes. In 2003, The University of Sydney began offering a four-year Bachelor of Pharmacy (Rural) (abbreviated BPharm (Rural)) programme at its Orange campus. It was designed to address the continuing **shortage** of pharmacists in rural areas and placed greater emphasis on rural aspects of pharmacy practice. Since most of the units of study were common to both the BPharm and BPharm (Rural), many of the lectur...
18. ...o the "aspirin" name there. In the United States, Bayer was still under German control—though the war disrupted the links between the American Bayer plant and the German Bayer headquarters—but phenol **shortage** threatened to reduce aspirin production to a trickle, and imports across the Atlantic Ocean were blocked by the Royal Navy. To secure phenol for aspirin production, and at the same time indirectly ai...
19. ...stown, Virginia (1607) shortly after it was founded, and the colonists asked the Virginia Company to send more physicians and apothecaries to the colony. In the early American settlements there was a **shortage** of health professionals; public officials, religious leaders, educators and household heads served as health advisors. Herbs and Indian remedies were used and apothecary shops were set up in large po...
20. ...unterfeit or substandard. If the fake drugs market grows at the current rate of 25%, it will cross the US$10billion mark by 2017. Trade in fake drugs is driven caused by lack of adequate regulations, **shortage** of drug inspectors and a lack of lab facilities to check the purity of drugs. Other key factors include storage of spurious drugs by chemists, weaknesses in drug distribution system, lack of awarenes...

=== DESTRUCTION (21 occurrences) ===
1. ...posals in the logical, but strictly hypothetical arena. Antibodies are promising against antimicrobial resistance. Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) target bacterial virulence factors, aiding in bacterial **destruction** through various mechanisms. Three FDA-approved antibodies target "B. anthracis" and "C. difficile" toxins. Innovative strategies include DSTA4637S, an antibody-antibiotic conjugate, and MEDI13902, a...
2. ...defense, Rumsfeld played a central role in the 2001 United States invasion of Afghanistan and 2003 invasion of Iraq. Before and during the Iraq War, he claimed that Iraq had an active weapons of mass **destruction** program; no stockpiles were ever found. A Pentagon Inspector General report found that Rumsfeld's top policy aide "developed, produced, and then disseminated alternative intelligence assessments on t...
3. ...downplayed the need for an Afghan army of even 70,000 troops, far fewer than the 250,000 envisaged by Karzai. Before and during the Iraq War, Rumsfeld claimed that Iraq had an active weapons of mass **destruction** program; in particular during his famous phrase "there are known knowns" in a press conference at the Pentagon on February 12, 2002, no stockpiles were ever found. Bush administration officials also...
4. ...he military operation started. On March 30, 2003, in an interview with George Stephanopoulos on ABC's "This Week" program, Rumsfeld answered a question by Stephanopoulos about finding weapons of mass **destruction** in Iraq, Rumsfeld stated "We know where they are. They're in the area around Tikrit and Baghdad and east, west, south and north somewhat." On April 9, 2003, at a press conference at the Pentagon, Rum...
5. ...the conditions that can interfere with nutrient utilization include problems with nutrient absorption, substances that cause a greater-than-normal need for a nutrient, conditions that cause nutrient **destruction**, and conditions that cause greater nutrient excretion. Nutrient toxicity occurs when excess consumption of a nutrient does harm to an organism. In the United States and Canada, recommended dietary in...
6. ...nic – causes a multisystem disease starting 2 to 24 hours after inhalation. Symptoms include gastrointestinal distress, headache, weakness, difficulty breathing, kidney and liver dysfunction, and the **destruction** of red blood cells. Chronic ingestion of lower levels of arsenic causes visible changes in the skin, typically hyperpigmentation (dark areas), but sometimes hypopigmentation (light areas) or an alter...
7. ...used. For example, bacterial resistance against beta-lactam antibiotics (such as penicillin and cephalosporins) can be circumvented by using antibiotics such as nafcillin that are not susceptible to **destruction** by certain beta-lactamases (the group of enzymes responsible for breaking down beta-lactams). Beta-lactam bacterial resistance can also be dealt with by administering beta-lactam antibiotics with dru...
8. ...metimes a combination of different classes of antibiotics may be used synergistically; that is, they work together to effectively fight bacteria that may be resistant to one of the antibiotics alone. **Destruction** of the resistant bacteria can also be achieved by phage therapy, in which a specific bacteriophage (virus that kills bacteria) is used. Adsorption Adsorption is the adhesion of atoms, ions or molecul...
9. ...chnical manager with "intimate knowledge" of the destroyed plant. A month later, "Guardian" correspondent Patrick Wintour elaborated that the plant "provided 50 per cent of Sudan’s medicines, and its **destruction** has left the country with no supplies of chloroquine, the standard treatment for malaria". He also noted that the British government (who publicly supported the U.S. decision to bomb the factory) ref...
10. ...o reason to believe them, nor disbelieve the testimony and assertions of former President Clinton, former Vice President Gore, CIA Chief Tenet, nor former security advisors Berger and Clarke that the **destruction** of Al Shifa was still, as of 2004, a justifiable national security target. The U.S. Justice Department, under President George W. Bush, produced an alleged al-Qaeda defector as a witness on 13 Februa...
11. ...usually do not impede treatment whereas necroses appear in around 5% of patients and lead to the discontinuation of the therapy. Also over time, a visible dent at the injection site due to the local **destruction** of fat tissue, known as lipoatrophy, may develop, however, this rarely occurs with interferon treatment. Interferons, a subclass of cytokines, are produced in the body during illnesses such as influe...
12. ...ted by the Germans during World War II without the toxicity, LSD was sought for use under the pretense that it could induce hysteria and psychoses, or at least an inability to fight without wholesale **destruction** of the enemy and their properties. Thousands of tests on willing research subjects took place at the Edgewood Arsenal in Maryland, with the ultimate conclusion being that LSD was too unpredictable an...
13. ...there is some suggestion that early amino acids could have formed in comet dust. In this case, circularly polarised radiation (which makes up 17% of stellar radiation) could have caused the selective **destruction** of one chirality of amino acids, leading to a selection bias which ultimately resulted in all life on Earth being homochiral. Enzymes, which are chiral, often distinguish between the two enantiomers...
14. ...o the fermentation process. For instance, to avoid biological process contamination, the fermentation medium, air, and equipment are sterilized. Foam control can be achieved by either mechanical foam **destruction** or chemical anti-foaming agents. Several other factors must be measured and controlled such as pressure, temperature, agitator shaft power, and viscosity. An important element for industrial fermenta...
15. ...ch is an ill-defined deposit of protein and iron, created by macrophages where excess iron is present, either locally or systemically, e.g., among people with iron overload due to frequent blood cell **destruction** and the necessary transfusions their condition calls for. If systemic iron overload is corrected, over time the hemosiderin is slowly resorbed by the macrophages. Human iron homeostasis is regulated...
16. ..., there was widespread controversy over the use of human embryonic stem cells. This controversy primarily targets the techniques used to derive new embryonic stem cell lines, which often requires the **destruction** of the blastocyst. Opposition to the use of human embryonic stem cells in research is often based on philosophical, moral, or religious objections. There is other stem cell research that does not inv...
17. ...lastocyst. Opposition to the use of human embryonic stem cells in research is often based on philosophical, moral, or religious objections. There is other stem cell research that does not involve the **destruction** of a human embryo, and such research involves adult stem cells, amniotic stem cells, and induced pluripotent stem cells. In January 2009, the US Food and Drug Administration gave clearance to Geron C...
18. ...g ultrasound and microbubbles is also being investigated for ocular disease. In cardiovascular disease, for example, the efficiency of gene therapy can be improved by "ultrasound targeted microbubble **destruction**" where a gene-loaded microbubble can be burst to release its contents. Research being done on sonophoresis is poorly standardized. For example, the emission of ultrasound waves further away from the...
19. ...f the oxygen molecule, resulting in a Fe–O–O bond angle of around 120° that avoids the formation of Fe–O–Fe or Fe–O–Fe bridges that would lead to electron transfer, the oxidation of Fe to Fe, and the **destruction** of hemoglobin.) This results in a movement of all the protein chains that leads to the other subunits of hemoglobin changing shape to a form with larger oxygen affinity. Thus, when deoxyhemoglobin ta...
20. ...ch is an ill-defined deposit of protein and iron, created by macrophages where excess iron is present, either locally or systemically, e.g., among people with iron overload due to frequent blood cell **destruction** and the necessary transfusions their condition calls for. If systemic iron overload is corrected, over time the hemosiderin is slowly resorbed by the macrophages. Human iron homeostasis is regulated...
21. ...ract amphiphilic contaminants. The absence of a solid absorptive surface reduces consumables and waste byproducts and produces a liquid hyper-concentrate which can be fed into one of the various PFAS **destruction** technologies. Across various full-scale trials and field applications, this technique provides a simplistic and low operational cost alternative for complex PFAS-impacted waters. In 2007, it was foun...

=== FRACTURE (7 occurrences) ===
1. ...y bone. By chemically attaching technetium-99m to MDP, radioactivity can be transported and attached to bone via the hydroxyapatite for imaging. Any increased physiological function, such as due to a **fracture** in the bone, will usually mean increased concentration of the tracer. This often results in the appearance of a "hot spot", which is a focal increase in radio accumulation or a general increase in ra...
2. ...ny of these potential complications can be prevented with simple measures like using good technique and keeping the period of IO infusion short by switching to IV as soon as it becomes feasible. Bone **fracture** complications can be decreased by using modern techniques and requiring more regular training in the methods of intraosseous marrow access for infusion. Extravasation can lead to the more serious com...
3. ...ction patterns are observed for lamellar, hexagonal, and isotropic phases. Other techniques that are used and do offer definitive evidence of existence of lamellar and hexagonal phases include freeze-**fracture** electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), and deuterium nuclear magnetic resonance (2H NMR). Additionally, negative staining transmission electron microscopy ha...
4. ...The morphological terminology is derived from botany and zoology, depending upon the source of the crude drug. In general, color, odor, taste, size, shape, and special features, like touch, texture, **fracture**, presence of trichomes, and presence of ridges of crude drugs are studied under morphology. Aromatic odor of umbelliferous fruits and sweet taste of liquorice are the example of this type of evaluati...
5. ...nt substitute for the scarce and expensive Persian "mumiya". During the Crusades, European soldiers learned firsthand of the drug mummia, which was considered to have great healing powers in cases of **fracture** and rupture. The demand for mummia increased in Europe and since the supply of natural bitumen from Persia and the Dead Sea was limited, the search for a new source turned to the tombs of Egypt. Misi...
6. ...echanisms, and it is the interaction between each process that allows for the adhesive process. The major categories are wetting theory, adsorption theory, diffusion theory, electrostatic theory, and **fracture** theory. Specific processes include mechanical interlocking, electrostatic, diffusion interpenetration, adsorption and fracture processes. Wetting theory: Wetting is the oldest and most prevalent theo...
7. ...g theory, adsorption theory, diffusion theory, electrostatic theory, and fracture theory. Specific processes include mechanical interlocking, electrostatic, diffusion interpenetration, adsorption and **fracture** processes. Wetting theory: Wetting is the oldest and most prevalent theory of adhesion. The adhesive components in a liquid solution anchor themselves in irregularities on the substrate and eventuall...

=== ASSESSMENT (97 occurrences) ===
1. ...d are only given if a substantial amount of research and at least some preliminary human testing has shown that they are believed to be somewhat safe and possibly effective. (See FDA Special Protocol **Assessment** about Phase III trials.) The FDA's Office of Prescription Drug Promotion (OPDP) has responsibilities that revolve around the review and regulation of prescription drug advertising and promotion. This...
2. ...cals. However, pharmacology emphasizes the therapeutic effects of chemicals, usually drugs or compounds that could become drugs, whereas toxicology is the study of chemical's adverse effects and risk **assessment**. Pharmacological knowledge is used to advise pharmacotherapy in medicine and pharmacy. Drug discovery is the field of study concerned with creating new drugs. It encompasses the subfields of drug des...
3. ...ly used. The most important symptoms for diagnosing SS are tremor, extreme aggressiveness, akathisia, or clonus (spontaneous, inducible and ocular). Physical examination of the patient should include **assessment** of deep tendon reflexes and muscle rigidity, the dryness of the mucosa of the mouth, the size and reactivity of the pupils, the intensity of bowel sounds, skin color, and the presence or absence of s...
4. ...arrest, or seizures. However, given the complexity of the mechanisms that underlie these potentially fatal outcomes of acute stimulant toxicity, it is impossible to determine what dose may be lethal. **Assessment** of the effects of stimulants is relevant given the large population currently taking stimulants. A systematic review of cardiovascular effects of prescription stimulants found no association in child...
5. ...resin were also included in Schedule IV, a more restrictive level of control, which is for only the most dangerous drugs such as heroin and fentanyl. They were removed after an independent scientific **assessment** by the World Health Organization in 2018-1029. Member nations of the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs voted 27–25 to remove it from Schedule IV on 2 December 2020, following a World Health Organizatio...
6. ...re is no good evidence that atypical antipsychotics have any therapeutic benefit for treating the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. There is very little evidence on which to base a risk and benefit **assessment** of using antipsychotics for long-term treatment. The choice of which antipsychotic to use for a specific patient is based on benefits, risks, and costs. It is debatable whether, as a class, typical o...
7. ...l and should only be used by the prescribed individual. Some drugs may be legally classified as over-the-counter (i.e. no prescription is required), but may only be dispensed by a pharmacist after an **assessment** of the patient's needs or the provision of patient education. Regulations detailing the establishments where drugs may be sold, who is authorized to dispense them, and whether a prescription is requi...
8. ...ll usually be approved by the national regulatory authority for use in the general population. Phase IV trials are performed after the newly approved drug, diagnostic or device is marketed, providing **assessment** about risks, benefits, or best uses. A fundamental distinction in evidence-based practice is between observational studies and randomized controlled trials. Types of observational studies in epidemio...
9. ...nd regulatory agencies to monitor the aggregate safety profile of experimental medicines as they are developed. The value of assessing aggregate safety data is: a) decisions based on aggregate safety **assessment** during development of the medicine can be made throughout the medicine's development and b) it sets up the sponsor and regulators well for assessing the medicine's safety after the drug is approved....
10. ...njamin, a former U.S. National Security Council staffer: "The report of the 9/11 Commission notes that the National Security staff reviewed the intelligence in April 2000 and concluded that the CIA's **assessment** of its intelligence on bin Laden and al-Shifa had been valid; the memo to Clinton on this was cosigned by Richard Clarke and Mary McCarthy, the NSC senior director for intelligence programs, who oppo...
11. ...site; and other information from HUMINT and technical sources. Given what we knew regarding terrorists’ interest in acquiring and using chemical weapons against Americans, and given the intelligence **assessment** provided us regarding the al-Shifa facility, I continue to believe that destroying it was the right decision." Syrup In cooking, syrup (less commonly sirup; from ; , beverage, wine and ) is a condime...
12. ...equivalence is evaluated with research supporting this decision. However, some organizations believe that if the federal government modified reimportation laws, the FDA could conduct a comprehensive **assessment** on manufacturing standards in other countries, and allow importation of drugs that meet or exceed U.S. safety standards for drug manufacturing. Individual importation of lower cost prescription drugs...
13. ...one by 2% of U.S. consumers in 2011 and 2012 – is likely not an effective public health solution. However, if the federal government modified reimportation laws, the FDA could conduct a comprehensive **assessment** on manufacturing standards in other countries, and allow importation of drugs that meet or exceed U.S. safety standards for drug manufacturing. H.R.3, Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act, is...
14. ...should not have a premium and orphan drugs should be treated like other pharmaceuticals in general. Drummond et al. argued that the social value of health technologies should also be included in the **assessment** along with the estimation of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. The very large incentives given to pharmaceutical companies to produce orphan drugs have led to the impression that the financia...
15. ...re Excellence The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) is an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health and Social Care.  As the national health technology **assessment** body of England, it is responsible for judging the cost-effectiveness of medicines and making them available on the NHS through reimbursement, with its judgements informing decisions in Wales and Nor...
16. ...clinical guidelines. One aspect of this is the explicit determination of cost–benefit boundaries for certain technologies that it assesses. NICE also plays an important role in pioneering technology **assessment** in other healthcare systems through NICE International, established in May 2008 to help cultivate links with foreign governments. NICE International has received financial support from the Bill & Mel...
17. ...p but do not actually submit information themselves. An independent academic centre then draws together and analyses all of the published information on the technology under appraisal and prepares an **assessment** report. This can be commented on by the Consultees and Commentators. Comments are then taken into account and changes made to the assessment report to produce an evaluation report. An independent App...
18. ...ormation on the technology under appraisal and prepares an assessment report. This can be commented on by the Consultees and Commentators. Comments are then taken into account and changes made to the **assessment** report to produce an evaluation report. An independent Appraisal Committee then looks at the evaluation report, hears spoken testimony from clinical experts, patient groups and carers. They take thei...
19. ...veness. There have been concerns that lobbying by pharmaceutical companies to mobilise media attention and influence public opinion are attempts to influence the decision-making process. A fast-track **assessment** system has been introduced to reach decisions where there is most pressure for a conclusion. NICE carries out assessments of the most appropriate treatment regimes for different diseases. This must t...
20. ...ort for guidance and quality standards in the social care arena. Drawing on the expertise of SCIE and their partners within the sector, each of the guidance products and quality standards had a needs **assessment** carried out to determine the requirements for tools to help embed the guidance and quality standards within the sector. These could include tailored versions of guidance for specific audiences, costi...
21. ...NHS has a limited budget and a vast number of potential spending options. Choices must be made as to how this limited budget is spent. Economic evaluations are carried out within a health technology **assessment** framework to compare the cost-effectiveness of alternative activities and to consider the opportunity cost associated with their decisions. By choosing to spend the finite NHS budget upon those treat...
22. ...lation. Following the successful completion of phase III testing, a New Drug Application is submitted to the FDA. The FDA reviews the data and if the product is seen as having a positive benefit-risk **assessment**, approval to market the product in the US is granted. A fourth phase of post-approval surveillance is also often required due to the fact that even the largest clinical trials cannot effectively pred...
23. ...le sizes. It has been argued that the highly rigid and focused nature of rational drug design suppresses serendipity in drug discovery. Pregnancy category The pregnancy category of a medication is an **assessment** of the risk of fetal injury due to the pharmaceutical, if it is used as directed by the mother during pregnancy. It does "not" include any risks conferred by pharmaceutical agents or their metabolite...
24. ...and animal models suggest that SAM might be useful to treat various liver diseases, as of 2012 SAM had not been studied in any large randomized placebo-controlled clinical trials that would allow an **assessment** of its efficacy and safety. A 2016 Cochrane review concluded that for major depressive disorder, "Given the absence of high quality evidence and the inability to draw firm conclusions based on that e...
25. ...ng the true extent of systemic absorption (referred to as absolute bioavailability) is clearly useful, in practice it is not determined as frequently as one may think. The reason for this is that its **assessment** requires an "intravenous reference"; that is, a route of administration that guarantees all of the administered drug reaches systemic circulation. Such studies come at considerable cost, not least of...
26. ...long it will remain in the body in an active form. Hence, the log "P" of a molecule is one criterion used in decision-making by medicinal chemists in pre-clinical drug discovery, for example, in the **assessment** of druglikeness of drug candidates. Likewise, it is used to calculate lipophilic efficiency in evaluating the quality of research compounds, where the efficiency for a compound is defined as its pote...
27. ...SPR models of chemicals (drugs/toxicants/environmental pollutants) with descriptors representative of molecular structure or properties. QSARs are being applied in many disciplines, for example: risk **assessment**, toxicity prediction, and regulatory decisions in addition to drug discovery and lead optimization. Obtaining a good quality QSAR model depends on many factors, such as the quality of input data, the...
28. ...ed by the REACH regulation, where "REACH" abbreviates "Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals". Regulatory application of QSAR methods includes "in silico" toxicological **assessment** of genotoxic impurities. Commonly used QSAR assessment software such as DEREK or CASE Ultra (MultiCASE) is used to genotoxicity of impurity according to ICH M7. The chemical descriptor space whose co...
29. ...Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals". Regulatory application of QSAR methods includes "in silico" toxicological assessment of genotoxic impurities. Commonly used QSAR **assessment** software such as DEREK or CASE Ultra (MultiCASE) is used to genotoxicity of impurity according to ICH M7. The chemical descriptor space whose convex hull is generated by a particular training set of...
30. ...iction of properties of novel chemicals that are located outside the applicability domain uses extrapolation, and so is less reliable (on average) than prediction within the applicability domain. The **assessment** of the reliability of QSAR predictions remains a research topic. The QSAR equations can be used to predict biological activities of newer molecules before their synthesis. Examples of machine learnin...
31. ...or excellent quality assays. In a typical HTS experiment, a clear distinction between a positive control and a negative reference such as a negative control is an index for good quality. Many quality-**assessment** measures have been proposed to measure the degree of differentiation between a positive control and a negative reference. Signal-to-background ratio, signal-to-noise ratio, signal window, assay varia...
32. ...With accompanying curve fitting and cheminformatics software qHTS data yields half maximal effective concentration (EC50), maximal response, Hill coefficient (nH) for the entire library enabling the **assessment** of nascent structure activity relationships (SAR). In March 2010, research was published demonstrating an HTS process allowing 1,000 times faster screening (100 million reactions in 10 hours) at 1-mi...
33. ...l marketed drugs contain excipients, and final drug formulations commonly contain more excipient than active ingredient. Pharmaceutical regulations and standards mandate the identification and safety **assessment** of all ingredients in drugs, including their chemical decomposition products. Novel excipients can sometimes be patented, or the specific formulation can be kept as a trade secret to prevent competit...
34. ...ugh a capillary. In nature, a streaming potential may occur at a significant magnitude in areas with volcanic activities. The streaming potential is also the primary electrokinetic phenomenon for the **assessment** of the zeta potential at the solid material-water interface. A corresponding solid sample is arranged in such a way to form a capillary flow channel. Materials with a flat surface are mounted as dupl...
35. ...EEA countries (28 EU Member States plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway), the European Commission and European Medicines Agency (EMA). EMA and the Member States cooperate and share expertise in the **assessment** of new medicines and of new safety information. They also rely on each other for exchange of information in the regulation of medicine, for example regarding the reporting of side effects of medicine...
36. ...is after Upjohn merged with Mylan to create Viatris. Pharmacovigilance Pharmacovigilance (PV, or PhV), also known as drug safety, is the pharmaceutical science relating to the "collection, detection, **assessment**, monitoring, and prevention" of adverse effects with pharmaceutical products. The etymological roots for the word "pharmacovigilance" are: (Greek for drug) and (Latin for to keep watch). As such, pha...
37. ...es (or similar government agencies) and drug safety departments in pharmaceutical companies, is that of adverse event reporting. Adverse event (AE) reporting involves the receipt, triage, data entry, **assessment**, distribution, reporting (if appropriate), and archiving of AE data and documentation. The source of AE reports may include: spontaneous reports from healthcare professionals or patients (or other in...
38. ...of the major weaknesses of spontaneous reporting is that of under-reporting, where, unlike in clinical trials, less than 100% of those adverse events occurring are reported. Further complicating the **assessment** of adverse events, AE reporting behavior varies greatly between countries and in relation to the seriousness of the events, but in general probably less than 10% (some studies suggest less than 5%) o...
39. ...ganization Database, which includes around 4.6 million reports (January 2009), growing annually by about 250,000. Aggregate reporting, also known as periodic reporting, plays a key role in the safety **assessment** of drugs. Aggregate reporting involves the compilation of safety data for a drug over a prolonged period of time (months or years), as opposed to single-case reporting which, by definition, involves...
40. ...and challenging, problems in pharmacovigilance is that of the determination of causality. Causality refers to the relationship of a given adverse event to a specific drug. Causality determination (or **assessment**) is often difficult because of the lack of clear-cut or reliable data. While one may assume that a positive temporal relationship might "prove" a positive causal relationship, this is not always the...
41. ...housekeeping practices and customer care development. The first batch of 154 certified pharmacy technicians are already employed in the community pharmacy sector. In 2009, a World Health Organization **assessment** identified a total of 918 practising pharmacy technicians or technologists (1 per 25,600 residents) and 1,642 medicine counter assistants (1 per 14,300 residents). In regards to training, the assessm...
42. ...essment identified a total of 918 practising pharmacy technicians or technologists (1 per 25,600 residents) and 1,642 medicine counter assistants (1 per 14,300 residents). In regards to training, the **assessment** identified only one pharmacy technologist training school in the country (enrolling 70 students in the Higher National Diploma program). R.C.S.M. Govt Medical College and CPR Hospital, Kolhapur provi...
43. ...efflux pump inhibitor, which when given with apixaban (a substrate for P-gp) will lead to increased absorption of apixaban, resulting in the same adverse effects as with CYP3A4 inhibition. Causality **assessment** is used to determine the likelihood that a drug caused a suspected ADR. There are a number of different methods used to judge causation, including the Naranjo algorithm, the Venulet algorithm and the...
44. ...e the likelihood that a drug caused a suspected ADR. There are a number of different methods used to judge causation, including the Naranjo algorithm, the Venulet algorithm and the WHO causality term **assessment** criteria. Each have pros and cons associated with their use and most require some level of expert judgement to apply. An ADR should not be labeled as 'certain' unless the ADR abates with a challenge-...
45. ...se reasons oxygen therapy is closely monitored. Masks are light in weight and attached using an elasticated headband or ear loops. They are transparent for allowing the face to be visible for patient **assessment** by healthcare providers, and reducing a sensation of claustrophobia experienced by some patients when wearing an oxygen mask. The vast majority of patients having an operation will at some stage wear...
46. ...Secretariat (ca. 600 staff), a management board, seven scientific committees (human, veterinary and herbal medicinal products, orphan drugs, paediatrics, advanced therapies and pharmacovigilance risk **assessment**) and a number of scientific working parties. The Secretariat is organised into five units: Directorate, Human Medicines Development and Evaluation, Patient Health Protection, Veterinary Medicines and...
47. ...arliament, two representatives of patients' organisations, one representative of doctors' organisations and one representative of veterinarians' organisations. The Agency decentralises its scientific **assessment** of medicines by working through a network of about 4500 experts throughout the EU. The EMA draws on resources of over 40 National Competent Authorities (NCAs) of EU Member states. The EMA additionall...
48. ...c cell therapy and tissue engineered products. It assesses the quality, safety and efficacy of ATMPs, and follows scientific developments in the field. A seventh committee, the Pharmacovigilance Risk **Assessment** Committee (PRAC) has come into function in 2012 with the implementation of the new EU pharmacovigilance legislation (Directive 2010/84/EU). The Agency carries out a number of activities, including: T...
49. ...ply for use of the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine codenamed BNT162b2 (later branded as Comirnaty). This approval enabled the start of the UK's COVID-19 vaccination programme. The regulator's public **assessment** report for the vaccine was published in 15 December. The MHRA went on to give conditional and temporary authorization to supply of further vaccines: AZD1222 from Oxford University and AstraZeneca on...
50. ...th Products and Food Branch (HPFB) of Health Canada. Within HPFB, the Marketed Health Products Directorate leads the coordination and implementation of consistent monitoring practices with regards to **assessment** of signals and safety trends, and risk communications concerning regulated marketed health products. MHPD also works closely with international organizations to facilitate the sharing of information....
51. ...long periods of time. Even after a single administration of THC, detectable levels of THC can be found in the body for weeks or longer (depending on the amount administered and the sensitivity of the **assessment** method). Investigators have suggested that this is an important factor in marijuana's effects, perhaps because cannabinoids may accumulate in the body, particularly in the lipid membranes of neurons....
52. ...tabolism and excretion (ADME) of synthetic or natural chemical substances in humans and other animal species. PBPK modeling is used in pharmaceutical research and drug development, and in health risk **assessment** for cosmetics or general chemicals. PBPK models strive to be mechanistic by mathematically transcribing anatomical, physiological, physical, and chemical descriptions of the phenomena involved in the...
53. ...ive uses, but other uses, such as statistical inference, have been made possible by the development of Bayesian statistical tools able to deal with complex models. That is true for both toxicity risk **assessment** and therapeutic drug development. PBPK models try to rely "a priori" on the anatomical and physiological structure of the body, and to a certain extent, on biochemistry. They are usually multi-compar...
54. ...r Poisson-Boltzmann methods. The interdependence between sampling and scoring function affects the docking capability in predicting plausible poses or binding affinities for novel compounds. Thus, an **assessment** of a docking protocol is generally required (when experimental data is available) to determine its predictive capability. Docking assessment can be performed using different strategies, such as: Dock...
55. ...poses or binding affinities for novel compounds. Thus, an assessment of a docking protocol is generally required (when experimental data is available) to determine its predictive capability. Docking **assessment** can be performed using different strategies, such as: Docking accuracy represents one measure to quantify the fitness of a docking program by rationalizing the ability to predict the right pose of a...
56. ...ual screening performance, or the LEADS-FRAG data set for fragments An evaluation of docking programs for their potential to reproduce peptide binding modes can be assessed by "Lessons for Efficiency **Assessment** of Docking and Scoring" (LEADS-PEP). A binding interaction between a small molecule ligand and an enzyme protein may result in activation or inhibition of the enzyme. If the protein is a receptor, li...
57. ...intent, reaffirming plans to create such an agency. In November 2014, both Australia and New Zealand agreed to cease plans to create a shared regulator, citing "a comprehensive review of progress and **assessment** of the costs and benefits to each country". The joint statement announcing the cessation outlines that both the TGA and Medsafe would continue to cooperate on medicine regulation and that the New Zea...
58. ...areas, if the patient has been diagnosed with ADHD, a GP may apply for the authority to prescribe. Patients who may require Schedule 8 CNS stimulant medication should be referred to a specialist for **assessment**. Examples: Schedule 9 (S9) drugs and poisons are substances and preparations that, by law, may only be used for research purposes. The sale, distribution, use, and manufacture of such substances with...
59. ...ly used for imaging tumors in oncology, where a static [F]FDG PET scan is performed and the tumor [F]FDG uptake is analyzed in terms of Standardized Uptake Value (SUV). FDG PET/CT can be used for the **assessment** of glucose metabolism in the heart and the brain. [F]FDG is taken up by cells, and subsequently phosphorylated by hexokinase (whose mitochondrial form is greatly elevated in rapidly growing malignant...
60. ...for a new drug application. These generally constitute a number of tests designed to determine the major toxicities of a novel compound prior to first use in humans. It is a legal requirement that an **assessment** of major organ toxicity be performed (effects on the heart and lungs, brain, kidney, liver and digestive system), as well as effects on other parts of the body that might be affected by the drug (e.g...
61. ...because of decentralization of drug supply, while standard treatment guidelines are available, there is no effective monitoring system for prescription practices is in place; there is little quality **assessment** and no incentive for rational use. In 2005 the United People's Freedom Alliance Government promised to establish a National Medicinal Drugs Policy (NMPD) that would enable Sri Lankans significantly t...
62. ...tion) is a continuation of the same idea as rTMS, but with the hope that deeper stimulation of subcortical areas of the brain leads to increased effect. A 2015 systematic review and health technology **assessment** found lacking evidence in order to recommend the method over either ECT or rTMS because so few studies had been published. Vagus nerve stimulation has also been used for treatment-resistant depressio...
63. ...her organisms are exposed. These conclusions are often the basis for public policy. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has developed extensive guidance and reports on dose–response modeling and **assessment**, as well as software. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration also has guidance to elucidate dose–response relationships during drug development. Dose response relationships may be used in individuals...
64. ...ed processes and procedures and its documentation, hence supporting the segregation of origins, causes and effects. Further application is with triage, when limited resources get used according to an **assessment** on ranking, urgence and staffing possibilities. Study director is mainly responsible for SOPs. The Quality Assurance Unit are individuals who are responsible for monitoring whether the study report a...
65. ...such as hypertension, obesity and depression which are also characterised by poor rates of adherence. Other aspects that drive medicine adherence rates is the idea of perceived self-efficacy and risk **assessment** in managing diabetes symptoms and decision making surrounding rigorous medication regiments. Perceived control and self-efficacy not only significantly correlate with each other, but also with diabet...
66. ...d a single nomination for the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for Fleming and Florey from the British biochemist Rudolph Peters. The secretary of the Nobel committee, Göran Liljestrand, made an **assessment** of Fleming and Florey in the same year, but little was known about penicillin in Sweden at the time, and he concluded that more information was required. The following year, there was one nomination...
67. ...documented and approved in a validation plan. These documents, terms and references for the protocol authors are for use in setting the scope of their protocols. It must be based on a Validation Risk **Assessment** (VRA) to ensure that the scope of validation being authorised is appropriate for the complexity and importance of the equipment or process under validation. Within the references given in the VP the...
68. ...t safety, data integrity and product quality. As part of a risk management system, decisions on the extent of validation and data integrity controls should be based on a justified and documented risk **assessment** of the computerised system." The subsequent validation or verification of computer systems targets only the "GxP critical" requirements of computer systems. Evidence (e.g. screen prints) is gathered...
69. ...harmacists in the UK qualify by first completing this degree, then undertaking a year of foundation pharmacist training. Upon successful completion of this training and after passing the registration **assessment**, they become registered pharmacists. Until September 2010, in Great Britain, registration with the GPhC automatically made pharmacists members of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, al...
70. ...method depends on global structural similarity and is not capable of "a priori" selecting a particular ligand‐binding site in the protein of interest. Further, since the methods rely on 2D similarity **assessment** for ligands, they are not capable of recognizing stereochemical similarity of small-molecules that are substantially different but demonstrate geometric shape similarity. To address these concerns, a...
71. ...(fluorescence) microscopes that are connected to some form of image analysis package. These take care of all the steps in taking fluorescent images of cells and provide rapid, automated and unbiased **assessment** of experiments. HCS instruments on the market today can be separated based on an array of specifications that significantly influence the instruments versatility and overall cost. These include speed...
72. ...dicine. As of April 2016, there were 46 registered online pharmacies in England. In April 2017, the Care Quality Commission suspended the registration of Doctor Matt Ltd because of inadequate medical **assessment** of prescription requests. Six have been warned after inspections. By 2019/20, there were 390 distance selling pharmacies in the U.K. Pharmacy2U claimed in June 2018 that online dispensing could save...
73. ...mpletes themselves, or through patient interviews. The latter will only qualify as a PRO, however, if the interviewer is gaining the patient's views and not using the responses to make a professional **assessment** or judgment of the impact of a treatment on the patient's condition. Thus, PROs are used as a means of gathering patient- rather than clinical- or other outcomes perspectives. The patient-reported pe...
74. .... For example, the SF-36 Health Survey, SF-12 Health Survey, Profile, the Nottingham Health Profile, the Health Utilities Index, the Quality of Well-Being Scale, the EuroQol (EQ-5D), and the Consumer **Assessment** of Healthcare Providers and Systems (CAHPS) survey instruments are PRO instruments. Condition-targeted tools may capture any of the constructs listed above, depending on the purpose for which they we...
75. ...essionals’ understanding of the construct, development, and psychometric validation of PROMs are uncertain. A Cross Cultural Adaptation requires a translation process based on criteria, as well as an **assessment** of psychometric features in the target language. The real challenges include cultural adaptation of the items rather than a word‑for‑word translation The term Patient Reported Health Data was also in...
76. ...es, like Quebec and British Columbia having their own in-house organizations, and others not having any at all. In 1989, the CDA's predecessor, the "Canadian Coordinating Office for Health Technology **Assessment**" (CCOHTA), was created by the federal government in response to this challenge. In 2006, the organization became the "Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health" (CADTH). The limited scope...
77. ...t. But despite completing its first harmonization activity in 2014, Australian and New Zealand officials have now decided to end the ANZTPA effort, saying a "comprehensive review of progress and [an] **assessment** of the costs and benefits to each country" had concluded the effort was no longer worth pursuing. "While work on ANZTPA will cease, our two countries will continue to co-operate on the regulation of...
78. ...oach has led to the concept of academic detailing to provide clear messages. A study by Thaver and Harpham described the work of 25 private practitioners in area around Karachi. The work was based on **assessment** of prescribing practices, and for each practitioner included 30 prescriptions for acute respiratory infections (ARIs) or diarrhea in children under 12 years of age. A total of 736 prescriptions were...
79. ...linical context, establishing priorities aids in the rationale and justification for the use of limited resources. Priority setting is influenced by time, money, and expertise. A risk priority number **assessment** is one way to establish priorities that may be difficult to establish in a health care setting. Software has been designed to assist professionals in establishing priorities in a specific business se...
80. ...hase III trials against tumors in the liver. Delcath has a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) with the National Cancer Institute and has received Fast Track and a Special Protocol **Assessment** from the Food and Drug Administration for its use of melphalan in treating unresectable liver tumors. PHP, also known as the Delcath System, is tested for the treatment of metastatic melanoma in the...
81. ...them, analytical studies demonstrate that the biological product is highly similar to the reference product, despite minor differences in clinically inactive components, animal studies (including the **assessment** of toxicity), and a clinical study or studies (including the assessment of immunogenicity and pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics). They are sufficient to demonstrate safety, purity, and potency in...
82. ...ly similar to the reference product, despite minor differences in clinically inactive components, animal studies (including the assessment of toxicity), and a clinical study or studies (including the **assessment** of immunogenicity and pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics). They are sufficient to demonstrate safety, purity, and potency in one or more appropriate conditions of use for which the reference produc...
83. ...he market by the FDA, it has to be re-evaluated for its safety and efficacy once every six months for the first and second years. Afterward, re-evaluations are conducted yearly, and the result of the **assessment** should be reported to authorities such as FDA. Biosimilars are required to undergo pharmacovigilance (PVG) regulations as its reference product. Thus biosimilars approved by the EMA are required to s...
84. ...gulatory authority include the approval and registration of medical devices and products, including drugs in the special therapeutic areas of herbalism and paraherbals, as well as the identification, **assessment** and defence against drug risks (pharmacovigilance).  With the dissolution of the German Institute for Medical Documentation and Information (DIMDI) in May 2020, responsibility for the electronic sper...
85. ...tion was merged into the BfArM . It offered reliable medical knowledge via the internet, oversaw medical classifications, terminology for health telematics and was responsible for a Health Technology **Assessment** programme. Antimicrobial pharmacodynamics Antimicrobial pharmacodynamics is the relationship between the concentration of an antibiotic and its ability to inhibit vital processes of endo- or ectopara...
86. ...ling (or OTC counseling) refers to the counseling that a pharmacist may provide on the subject of initiating, modifying, or stopping an over-the-counter (OTC) drug product. OTC counseling requires an **assessment** of the patient's self-care concerns and drug-related needs. The types of drugs that are involved in OTC counseling are, for example, used to treat self-diagnosable conditions like heartburn, cough, a...
87. ...itro" studies of various UFP species are currently being done using a variety of animal models including mouse, rat, and fish. These studies aim to establish toxicological profiles necessary for risk **assessment**, risk management, and potential regulation and legislation. Some sizes of UFPs may be filtered from the air using ULPA filters. As the nanotechnology industry has grown, nanoparticles have brought UF...
88. ...gislation. Some sizes of UFPs may be filtered from the air using ULPA filters. As the nanotechnology industry has grown, nanoparticles have brought UFPs more public and regulatory attention. UFP risk **assessment** research is still in the very early stages. There are continuing debates about whether to regulate UFPs and how to research and manage the health risks they may pose. As of March 19, 2008, the EPA do...
89. ...harmaceutical industry to describe nonclinical pharmacological evaluation of unintended effects of candidate drugs for regulatory submissions. Back then, it was part of a wider ‘general pharmacology’ **assessment**, which addressed actions of a drug candidate beyond the therapeutically intended effects. The only detailed guidelines indicating the requirements from drug regulatory authorities for general pharmac...
90. .... Pharmacology is the study of the effect of drugs and clinical pharmacology is the study of effect of drugs on clinical humans. Part of the task of clinical pharmacology is to provide a risk benefit **assessment** by effects of drugs in patients: Other parameters relating to drug use may benefit epidemiological methodology. Pharmacoepidemiology then can also be defined as the transparent application of epidemi...
91. ...se in alcohol intake. The underlying mechanism involves a decreased responsiveness of GABA receptors in the brain. The withdrawal process is typically followed using the Clinical Institute Withdrawal **Assessment** for Alcohol scale (CIWA-Ar). The typical treatment of alcohol withdrawal is with benzodiazepines such as chlordiazepoxide or diazepam. Often the amounts given are based on a person's symptoms. Thiami...
92. ...rom repeated withdrawals leads to accumulating neuroadaptive changes. Kindling may also be the reason for cognitive damage seen in binge drinkers. Many hospitals use the Clinical Institute Withdrawal **Assessment** for Alcohol (CIWA) protocol in order to assess the level of withdrawal present and therefore the amount of medication needed. When overuse of alcohol is suspected but drinking history is unclear, tes...
93. ...ot a facility's validation strategy is well thought-out and organized. A VMP should have logical reasoning for including or excluding every system associated with a validation project based on a risk **assessment**.  The GAMP 5 standard recommends an approach to the creation of the plan. Topics commonly covered include: Introduction, scope, responsibilities, description of facility and design, building and plan...
94. ...Due to the fact that varying kinetic mechanisms affect potency for COX-1 versus COX-2, relying Potency and selectivity in human whole blood is used by many groups and has been accepted as a standard **assessment** of COX-2 potency and selectivity. One of the keys to developing COX-2 selective drugs is the larger active site of COX-2, which makes it possible to make molecules too large to fit into the COX-1 act...
95. ...as new science becomes available, the RRD is evaluating the need for regular PFAS sampling at Superfund sites and is including an evaluation of PFAS sampling needs as part of a Baseline Environmental **Assessment** review. Earlier in 2018, the RRD purchased lab equipment that will allow the MDEQ Environmental Lab to conduct analyses of certain PFAS samples. (Currently, most samples are shipped to one of the few...
96. ...ater extracted from the soil. The formula for calculating the sodium adsorption ratio (SAR) is: where sodium, calcium, and magnesium concentrations are expressed in milliequivalents/liter. SAR allows **assessment** of the state of flocculation or of dispersion of clay aggregates in a soil. Sodium and potassium ions facilitate the dispersion of clay particles while calcium and magnesium promote their flocculatio...
97. ...cited in antidrug pamphlets, are largely unsubstantiated. Some countries, cities and organizations deploy drug checking services in order to improve the ability of users to make a more accurate risk **assessment**. Custom package seals, authentication labels, holograms, and security printing, can be valued parts of an entire security system. They help verify that enclosed drugs are what the package says they a...

=== EVOLUTION (44 occurrences) ===
1. ...d as "the taking of medicines on one's own initiative or on another person's suggestion, who is not a certified medical professional", and it has been identified as one of the primary reasons for the **evolution** of antimicrobial resistance. Self-medication with antibiotics is an unsuitable way of using them but a common practice in resource-constrained countries. The practice exposes individuals to the risk...
2. ...nother study in an intensive care unit in a major hospital in France has shown that 30% to 60% of prescribed antibiotics were unnecessary. These inappropriate uses of antimicrobial agents promote the **evolution** of antimicrobial resistance by supporting the bacteria in developing genetic alterations that lead to resistance. According to research conducted in the US that aimed to evaluate physicians' attitude...
3. ...will also provide pharmacists with the knowledge to educate patients that antibiotics will not work for a virus for example. Excessive antimicrobial use has become one of the top contributors to the **evolution** of antimicrobial resistance. Since the beginning of the antimicrobial era, antimicrobials have been used to treat a wide range of infectious diseases. Overuse of antimicrobials has become the primary...
4. ...th a cold or an upper respiratory infection (both usually viral in origin) were given prescriptions for antibiotics. These prescriptions accomplished nothing other than increasing the risk of further **evolution** of antibiotic resistant bacteria. Using antimicrobials without prescription is another driving force leading to the overuse of antibiotics to self-treat diseases like the common cold, cough, fever, a...
5. ...terogeneous environment with respect to nutrient and antibiotic gradients may facilitate antibiotic resistance in small bacterial populations. Researchers hypothesize that the mechanism of resistance **evolution** is based on four SNP mutations in the genome of "E. coli" produced by the gradient of antibiotic. In one study, which has implications for space microbiology, a non-pathogenic strain "E. coli" MG1655...
6. ...kely effects of different policies. Distinguishing infections requiring antibiotics from self-limiting ones is clinically challenging. In order to guide appropriate use of antibiotics and prevent the **evolution** and spread of antimicrobial resistance, diagnostic tests that provide clinicians with timely, actionable results are needed. Acute febrile illness is a common reason for seeking medical care worldwid...
7. ...the particle is in motion. Also, there would be a distribution of different possible s instead of always just one in a realistic situation. The diffusion equation yields an approximation of the time **evolution** of the probability density function associated with the position of the particle going under a Brownian movement under the physical definition. The approximation is valid on short timescales. The tim...
8. ...f the probability density function associated with the position of the particle going under a Brownian movement under the physical definition. The approximation is valid on short timescales. The time **evolution** of the position of the Brownian particle itself is best described using the Langevin equation, an equation that involves a random force field representing the effect of the thermal fluctuations of th...
9. ...it returns almost surely to any fixed neighborhood of the origin infinitely often) whereas it is not recurrent in dimensions three and higher. Unlike the random walk, it is scale invariant. The time **evolution** of the position of the Brownian particle itself can be described approximately by a Langevin equation, an equation which involves a random force field representing the effect of the thermal fluctuati...
10. ...succession, the development of tricyclic antidepressants, monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and benzodiazepines, among other antipsychotics and antidepressants. A defining feature of this era includes an **evolution** of research methods, with the establishment of placebo-controlled, double-blind studies, and the development of methods for analyzing blood levels with respect to clinical outcome and increased sophi...
11. ...aerodynamic diameter, not geometric diameter, to characterize particles in inhalable drugs.  The previous discussion focused on single aerosol particles. In contrast, "aerosol dynamics" explains the **evolution** of complete aerosol populations. The concentrations of particles will change over time as a result of many processes. External processes that move particles outside a volume of gas under study includ...
12. ...n volume of gas include particle formation (nucleation), evaporation, chemical reaction, and coagulation. A differential equation called the "Aerosol General Dynamic Equation" (GDE) characterizes the **evolution** of the number density of particles in an aerosol due to these processes. Change in time = Convective transport + brownian diffusion + gas-particle interactions + coagulation + migration by external f...
13. ...gastrin, secretin, cholecystokinin, and ghrelin, are mediated through either intracrine or autocrine mechanisms, indicating that the cells releasing these hormones are conserved structures throughout **evolution**. The structure and function can be described both as gross anatomy and as microscopic anatomy or histology. The tract itself is divided into upper and lower tracts, and the intestines small and large...
14. ...ernative sources to reduce the chance of antibiotic resistance are probiotics, prebiotics, dietary fibers, enzymes, organic acids, phytogenics. Drug, toxin, or chemical resistance is a consequence of **evolution** and is a response to pressures imposed on any living organism. Individual organisms vary in their sensitivity to the drug used and some with greater fitness may be capable of surviving drug treatment...
15. ...or the beginning of the adsorption when a well-behaved concentration gradient forms near the surface. Correction on the reduction of the adsorption area and slowing down of the concentration gradient **evolution** have to be considered over a longer time. Under real experimental conditions, the flow and the small adsorption area always make the adsorption rate faster than what this equation predicted, and the...
16. ...abundant ion in Earth's crust and mantle and is highly bioavailable in the hydrosphere. This availability, in combination with a useful and very unusual chemistry, may have led to its utilization in **evolution** as an ion for signaling, enzyme activation, and catalysis. However, the unusual nature of ionic magnesium has also led to a major challenge in the use of the ion in biological systems. Biological mem...
17. ...ed to the right to refuse professional medical treatment. Self-medication can cause unintentional self-harm. Self-medication with antibiotics has been identified as one of the primary reasons for the **evolution** of antimicrobial resistance. Sometimes self-medication or DIY medicine occurs because patients disagree with a doctor's interpretation of their condition, to access experimental therapies that are no...
18. ...fined as "the taking of medicines on one's own initiative or on another person's suggestion, who is not a certified medical professional". It has been identified as one of the primary reasons for the **evolution** of antimicrobial resistance.  Self-medication with antibiotics is an unsuitable way of using them but a common practice in developing countries. Many people resort to that out of necessity when acces...
19. ...or a limited number of drugs to date, and much of its development rests on empirical foundations. Point-of-care tests for an easy performance of TDM at the medical practice are under elaboration. The **evolution** of information technology holds great promise for using the methods and knowledge of pharmacometrics to bring patient treatment closer to the ideal of precision medicine (which is not just about adju...
20. ...eir company, Burt's Bees. In 2020, it was reported that Burt's Bees had used 50 percent of recycled material to package various products and that 100 percent of the products were recyclable. In 2011, **Evolution** of Smooth (or commonly known as EOS) created a spherical-shaped lip balm as well as describing its 95% organic ingredients. With the gradual legalization of cannabis in the United States, some compan...
21. ...ability. Later that year, Hepsera (adefovir) was approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, and Emtriva (emtricitabine) for the treatment of HIV. During this era, Gilead completed its gradual **evolution** from a biotech startup into a pharmaceutical company. The "San Francisco Chronicle" noted that by 2003, the Gilead corporate campus in Foster City had expanded to "seven low-slung sand-colored buildi...
22. ...New Mexico, by Pedro Miramontes, a mathematician from National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), presenting the report "DNA and RNA Physicochemical Constraints, Cellular Automata and Molecular **Evolution**". The work was later presented by Miramontes as his dissertation. "In silico" has been used in white papers written to support the creation of bacterial genome programs by the Commission of the Europ...
23. ...s. Additional forces beyond the DLVO construct have been reported to also play a major role in determining colloid stability. DLVO theory is not effective in describing ordering processes such as the **evolution** of colloidal crystals in dilute dispersions with low salt concentrations. It also cannot explain the relation between the formation of colloidal crystals and salt concentrations. Natural product A na...
24. ...) are not essential for survival, but nevertheless provide organisms that produce them an evolutionary advantage. Many secondary metabolites are cytotoxic and have been selected and optimized through **evolution** for use as "chemical warfare" agents against prey, predators, and competing organisms. Secondary or specialized metabolites are often unique to specific species, whereas primary metabolites are commo...
25. ...s such as tryptophan, tyrosine, lysine, arginine, and ornithine serve as essential precursors. Their accumulation is facilitated by mechanisms like increased gene expression, gene duplication, or the **evolution** of enzymes with broader substrate specificities. The biosynthesis of the tropane alkaloid cocaine follows this general pathway. A key reaction in alkaloid biosynthesis is the Pictet-Spengler reaction...
26. ...t make these compounds more favorable. Density functional theory (DFT), the Hartree–Fock method, and semiempirical calculations also show some favorability for dimerization in natural products due to **evolution** of more energy per bond than the equivalent trimer or tetramer. This is proposed to be due to steric hindrance at the core of the molecule, as most natural products dimerize and trimerize in a head-t...
27. ...earch, to understand traditional medicine and ethnopharmacology, and to find pharmacologically useful areas of chemical space. To achieve this, many technological advances have been made, such as the **evolution** of technology associated with chemical separations, and the development of modern methods in chemical structure determination such as NMR. Early attempts to understand the biosynthesis of natural pro...
28. ...thnobotany. Phytochemical studies directed toward human (i.e. drug discovery) use may fall under the discipline of pharmacognosy, whereas phytochemical studies focused on the ecological functions and **evolution** of phytochemicals likely fall under the discipline of chemical ecology. Phytochemistry also has relevance to the field of plant physiology. Techniques commonly used in the field of phytochemistry are...
29. ...y and efficacy to monotherapies. In a recent study about solid cancers, Martin Nowak, Bert Vogelstein, and colleagues showed that in most clinical cases, combination therapies are needed to avoid the **evolution** of resistance to targeted drugs. Furthermore, they find that the simultaneous administration of multiple targeted drugs minimizes the chance of relapse when no single mutation confers cross-resistanc...
30. ...would appear to be the basic elements of nanoscale materials science, and, therefore, provide the first step in developing a more rigorous understanding of the mechanisms involved in microstructural **evolution** in inorganic systems such as sintered ceramic nanomaterials. Ultra-fine and uniform ceramic powders can be formed by precipitation. These powders of single and multiple component compositions can be...
31. ...h thickness greater than 50 μm. Pore direction is governed by crystal orientation. In (100)-cut Si the pores are oriented perpendicular to the wafer's surface. It was noted by Halimaoui that hydrogen **evolution** occurs during the formation of porous silicon.  When purely aqueous HF solutions are used for the PS formation, the hydrogen bubbles stick to the surface and induce lateral and in-depth inhomogeneity...
32. ...the formation of porous silicon.  When purely aqueous HF solutions are used for the PS formation, the hydrogen bubbles stick to the surface and induce lateral and in-depth inhomogeneity The hydrogen **evolution** is normally treated with absolute ethanol in concentration exceeding 15%. It was found that the introduction of ethanol eliminates hydrogen and ensures complete infiltration of HF solution within the...
33. ...]FDG within the body. Since its development in 1976, [F]FDG had a profound influence on research in the neurosciences. The subsequent discovery in 1980 that [F]FDG accumulates in tumors underpins the **evolution** of PET as a major clinical tool in cancer diagnosis. [F]FDG is now the standard radiotracer used for PET neuroimaging and cancer patient management. The images can be assessed by a nuclear medicine p...
34. ...ve been identified, along with two novel Mg transport systems TRPM6/TRPM7 and PCLN-1. Finally, in plants, a family of Mrs2p homologues has been identified along with another novel protein, AtMHX. The **evolution** of Mg transport appears to have been rather complicated. Proteins apparently based on MgtE are present in bacteria and metazoa, but are missing in fungi and plants, whilst proteins apparently related...
35. ...le biotechnology company, not a contract research operation. He believed that recombinant growth hormones had a large market in the United States, and that they would be key for Genentech's corporate **evolution**. By October 18, 1985, the FDA approved the human growth hormone, developed almost entirely by Genentech, for sale in the United States, under the commercial name Protropin. In just two decades, Protr...
36. ...ption of web-based software that could be accessed using existing computers at the investigational sites. EDC represents this new class of software. The EDC landscape has continued to evolve from its **evolution** from RDE in the late 1990s. Today, the market consists of a variety of new and established software providers. Many of these providers offer specialized solutions targeting certain customer profiles...
37. ...d Harold Urey demonstrated that many simple biomolecules could be formed spontaneously from inorganic precursor compounds under laboratory conditions designed to mimic those found on Earth before the **evolution** of life. Of particular interest was the substantial yield of amino acids obtained, since amino acids are the building blocks for proteins. In 1957, Sidney Fox demonstrated that dry mixtures of amino...
38. ...prospective virtual screening. Hybrid methods that rely on structural and ligand similarity were also developed to overcome the limitations of traditional VLS approaches. This methodologies utilizes **evolution**‐based ligand‐binding information to predict small-molecule binders and can employ both global structural similarity and pocket similarity. A global structural similarity based approach employs both a...
39. ...n a way that eliminates the need for users to enter the same data or perform the same action in both applications. The shift in the definition of "eClinical" has been a natural part of the industry’s **evolution** to seek better ways to utilize multiple technologies together within a clinical trial. While individual solutions have helped to automate or streamline particular application areas, maintaining multi...
40. ...the early 1990s, The PAGE meeting was organized and has been held yearly since then, although no official organization was present. Ette and Williams have provided a historical context from which the **evolution** of pharmacometrics can be appreciated. In 2011, the American Society of Pharmacometrics (ASoP) was founded by a number of local American groups, and over 600 members worldwide joined ASoP within 6 mo...
41. ...is as a chance to expand their medical activities, as well as acting altruistically. George Griffenhagen, pharmacist and acting curator of the Smithsonian Institution, did extensive research into the **evolution** of the show globe and laid to rest many of the more unusual stories about its origin. He thought that the show globe appeared when the apothecaries and alchemists merged their professions during the...
42. ...freestanding, they hung from a brass chain; the most elaborate had multiple tiers, each chamber containing a different color of water. It was not so much the pharmacists who were responsible for the **evolution** of show globes to works of arts, but American glass manufacturers. Pharmaceutical catalogs during the 1870s advertised numerous styles of show globes with each glass manufacturer developing his own d...
43. ...are all bacteria, include "Lactobacillus plantarum" and related lactobacilli, which use a different nonenzymatic mechanism with manganese (Mn) ions complexed with polyphosphate, suggesting a path of **evolution** for this function in aerobic life. Manganese is also important in photosynthetic oxygen evolution in chloroplasts in plants. The oxygen-evolving complex (OEC) is a part of photosystem II contained in...
44. ...nt nonenzymatic mechanism with manganese (Mn) ions complexed with polyphosphate, suggesting a path of evolution for this function in aerobic life. Manganese is also important in photosynthetic oxygen **evolution** in chloroplasts in plants. The oxygen-evolving complex (OEC) is a part of photosystem II contained in the thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts; it is responsible for the terminal photooxidation of wat...

=== USE (2697 occurrences) ===
1. ...ear guidance given in many public health advice publications to "spit, avoid rinsing with water/excessive rinsing with water" they believed there was a limited evidence base for best practice. Common **use** involves rinsing the mouth with about 20–50 ml (2/3 fl oz) of mouthwash. The wash is typically swished or gargled for about half a minute and then spat out. Most companies suggest not drinking water...
2. ...alcohol mouthwashes do exist, as well as many other formulations for different needs (covered in the above sections).  These risks may be higher in toddlers and young children if they are allowed to **use** toothpaste and/or mouthwash unsupervised, where they may swallow it. Misuse in this way can be avoided with parental admission or supervision and by using child-safe forms or a children's brand of mo...
3. ...ch are used at home as part of an oral hygiene routine. Mouthwashes combine ingredients to treat a variety of oral conditions. Variations are common, and mouthwash has no standard formulation, so its **use** and recommendation involves concerns about patient safety. Some manufacturers of mouthwash state that their antiseptic and antiplaque mouthwashes kill the bacterial plaque that causes cavities, gingi...
4. ...manufacturers of mouthwash state that their antiseptic and antiplaque mouthwashes kill the bacterial plaque that causes cavities, gingivitis, and bad breath. It is, however, generally agreed that the **use** of mouthwash does not eliminate the need for both brushing and flossing. The American Dental Association asserts that regular brushing and proper flossing are enough in most cases, in addition to reg...
5. ...ist of ingredients specified by a doctor. Despite a lack of evidence that prescription mouthwashes are more effective in decreasing the pain of oral lesions, many patients and prescribers continue to **use** them. There has been only one controlled study to evaluate the efficacy of magic mouthwash; it shows no difference in efficacy between the most common magic-mouthwash formulation, on the one hand, an...
6. ...growth of "Neisseria gonorrhoeae" in the pharynx. However, subsequent trials have found that there was no difference in gonorrhoea cases among men using daily mouthwash compared to those who did not **use** mouthwash for 12 weeks. Alcohol is added to mouthwash not to destroy bacteria but to act as a carrier agent for essential active ingredients such as menthol, eucalyptol and thymol, which help to pene...
7. ...brushing is impossible due to pain, as may occur in primary herpetic gingivostomatitis, chlorhexidine mouthwash is used as a temporary substitute for other oral hygiene measures. It is not suited for **use** in acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis, however. Rinsing with chlorhexidine mouthwash before and after a tooth extraction may reduce the risk of a dry socket. Other uses of chlorhexidine mouthwas...
8. ...rosions and oral mucosal lesions, general burning sensation and many other uses. Chlorhexidine mouthwash is known to have minor adverse effects. Chlorhexidine binds to tannins, meaning that prolonged **use** in persons who consume coffee, tea or red wine is associated with extrinsic staining (i.e. removable staining) of teeth. A systematic review of commercial chlorhexidine products with anti-discolorati...
9. ...ered an inferior alternative to chlorhexidine. In dilute concentrations, chlorine dioxide is an ingredient that acts as an antiseptic agent in some mouthwashes. In traditional Ayurvedic medicine, the **use** of oil mouthwashes is called "Kavala" ("oil swishing") or "Gandusha", and this practice has more recently been re-marketed by the complementary and alternative medicine industry as "oil pulling". Its...
10. ...eansing action when it froths as it comes into contact with debris in mouth. It is often used in the short term to treat acute necrotising ulcerative gingivitis. Side effects can occur with prolonged **use**, including hypertrophy of the lingual papillae. Enzymes and non-enzymatic proteins, such as lactoperoxidase, lysozyme, and lactoferrin, have been used in mouthwashes (e.g., Biotene) to reduce levels...
11. ...r treatments. Sanguinarine is a toxic alkaloid herbal extract, obtained from plants such as "Sanguinaria canadensis" (bloodroot), "Argemone mexicana" (Mexican prickly poppy), and others. However, its **use** is strongly associated with the development of leukoplakia (a white patch in the mouth), usually in the buccal sulcus. This type of leukoplakia has been termed "sanguinaria-associated keratosis", and...
12. ...lthough this type of leukoplakia may show dysplasia, the potential for malignant transformation is unknown. Ironically, elements within the complementary and alternative medicine industry promote the **use** of sanguinaria as a therapy for cancer. Sodium bicarbonate is sometimes combined with salt to make a simple homemade mouthwash, indicated for any of the reasons that a saltwater mouthwash might be us...
13. ...uth, rather than vigorously swilled around (which could dislodge a blood clot). Once the blood clot has stabilized, the mouthwash can be used more vigorously. These mouthwashes tend to be advised for **use** about 6 times per day, especially after meals (to remove food from the socket). Sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) is used as a foaming agent in many oral hygiene products, including many mouthwashes. Some...
14. ...s (to remove food from the socket). Sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) is used as a foaming agent in many oral hygiene products, including many mouthwashes. Some may suggest that it is probably advisable to **use** mouthwash at least an hour after brushing with toothpaste when the toothpaste contains SLS, since the anionic compounds in the SLS toothpaste can deactivate cationic agents present in the mouthwash....
15. ...ounds in the SLS toothpaste can deactivate cationic agents present in the mouthwash. Sucralfate is a mucosal coating agent, composed of an aluminum salt of sulfated sucrose. It is not recommended for **use** in the prevention of oral mucositis in head and neck cancer patients receiving radiotherapy or chemoradiation, due to a lack of efficacy found in a well-designed, randomized controlled trial. Tetracy...
16. ...ound in a well-designed, randomized controlled trial. Tetracycline is an antibiotic which may sometimes be used as a mouthwash in adults (it causes red staining of teeth in children). It is sometimes **use** for herpetiforme ulceration (an uncommon type of aphthous stomatitis), but prolonged use may lead to oral candidiasis, as the fungal population of the mouth overgrows in the absence of enough competi...
17. ...may sometimes be used as a mouthwash in adults (it causes red staining of teeth in children). It is sometimes use for herpetiforme ulceration (an uncommon type of aphthous stomatitis), but prolonged **use** may lead to oral candidiasis, as the fungal population of the mouth overgrows in the absence of enough competing bacteria. Similarly, minocycline mouthwashes of 0.5% concentrations can relieve sympto...
18. ...n produces ambroxide and ambrinol, the main odor components of ambergris. Ambroxide is now produced synthetically and used extensively in the perfume industry. Ambergris has been mostly known for its **use** in creating perfume and fragrance much like musk. Perfumes based on ambergris still exist. Ambergris has historically been used in food and drink. A serving of eggs and ambergris was reportedly King...
19. ...hat have a natural resistance to antimicrobials becoming much more prevalent than the ones that are easily defeated with medication. While antimicrobial resistance does occur naturally over time, the **use** of antimicrobial agents in a variety of settings both within the healthcare industry and outside of has led to antimicrobial resistance becoming increasingly more prevalent. Although many microbes de...
20. ...nts will naturally become more prevalent in the environment, and those without this resistance will become obsolete. Some contemporary antimicrobial resistances have also evolved naturally before the **use** of antimicrobials of human clinical uses. For instance, methicillin-resistance evolved as a pathogen of hedgehogs, possibly as a co-evolutionary adaptation of the pathogen to hedgehogs that are infec...
21. ...llin discovered by Alexander Fleming rapidly lost clinical effectiveness in treating humans and, furthermore, none of the other natural penicillins (F, K, N, X, O, U1 or U6) are currently in clinical **use**. Antimicrobial resistance can be acquired from other microbes through swapping genes in a process termed horizontal gene transfer. This means that once a gene for resistance to an antibiotic appears...
22. ...s in the community, potentially moving from a non-disease causing microbe to a disease-causing microbe. This process is heavily driven by the natural selection processes that happen during antibiotic **use** or misuse. Over time, most of the strains of bacteria and infections present will be the type resistant to the antimicrobial agent being used to treat them, making this agent now ineffective to defea...
23. ...trains of bacteria and infections present will be the type resistant to the antimicrobial agent being used to treat them, making this agent now ineffective to defeat most microbes. With the increased **use** of antimicrobial agents, there is a speeding up of this natural process. In the vast majority of countries, antibiotics can only be prescribed by a doctor and supplied by a pharmacy. Self-medication...
24. ...f the population resorted to treating their minor health issues and chronic illnesses through self-medication. Self-medication is higher outside the hospital environment, and this is linked to higher **use** of antibiotics, with the majority of antibiotics being used in the community rather than hospitals. The prevalence of self-medication in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) ranges from 8.1% to 9...
25. ...ve on antimicrobial resistance as a whole. It also confirms that some physicians may be overly cautious and prescribe antibiotics for both medical or legal reasons, even when clinical indications for **use** of these medications are not always confirmed. This can lead to unnecessary antimicrobial use, a pattern which may have worsened during the COVID-19 pandemic. Studies have shown that common misconcep...
26. ...cautious and prescribe antibiotics for both medical or legal reasons, even when clinical indications for use of these medications are not always confirmed. This can lead to unnecessary antimicrobial **use**, a pattern which may have worsened during the COVID-19 pandemic. Studies have shown that common misconceptions about the effectiveness and necessity of antibiotics to treat common mild illnesses cont...
27. ...dies have shown that common misconceptions about the effectiveness and necessity of antibiotics to treat common mild illnesses contribute to their overuse. Important to the conversation of antibiotic **use** is the veterinary medical system. Veterinary oversight is required by law for all medically important antibiotics. Veterinarians use the Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model (PK/PD) approach to ensu...
28. ...bute to their overuse. Important to the conversation of antibiotic use is the veterinary medical system. Veterinary oversight is required by law for all medically important antibiotics. Veterinarians **use** the Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model (PK/PD) approach to ensuring that the correct dose of the drug is delivered to the correct place at the correct timing. Increased antibiotic use during the e...
29. ...eterinarians use the Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model (PK/PD) approach to ensuring that the correct dose of the drug is delivered to the correct place at the correct timing. Increased antibiotic **use** during the early waves of the COVID-19 pandemic may exacerbate this global health challenge. Moreover, pandemic burdens on some healthcare systems may contribute to antibiotic-resistant infections. O...
30. ...reased hand hygiene, decreased international travel, and decreased elective hospital procedures may have reduced AMR pathogen selection and spread in the short term" during the COVID-19 pandemic. The **use** of disinfectants such as alcohol-based hand sanitizers, and antiseptic hand wash may also have the potential to increase antimicrobial resistance. Extensive use of disinfectants can lead to mutations...
31. ...erm" during the COVID-19 pandemic. The use of disinfectants such as alcohol-based hand sanitizers, and antiseptic hand wash may also have the potential to increase antimicrobial resistance. Extensive **use** of disinfectants can lead to mutations that induce antimicrobial resistance. A 2024 United Nations High-Level Meeting on AMR has pledged to reduce deaths associated with bacterial AMR by 10% over the...
32. ...since 2016, global leaders also committed to raising $100 million to update and implement AMR action plans. However, the final draft of the declaration omitted an earlier target to reduce antibiotic **use** in animals by 30% by 2030, due to opposition from meat-producing countries and the farming industry. Critics argue this omission is a major weakness, as livestock accounts for around 73% of global sa...
33. ...ding the production of meat as a source of protein. Antibiotics are fed to livestock to act as growth supplements, and a preventive measure to decrease the likelihood of infections. Farmers typically **use** antibiotics in animal feed to improve growth rates and prevent infections. However, this is illogical as antibiotics are used to treat infections and not prevent infections. 80% of antibiotic use in...
34. ...lly use antibiotics in animal feed to improve growth rates and prevent infections. However, this is illogical as antibiotics are used to treat infections and not prevent infections. 80% of antibiotic **use** in the U.S. is for agricultural purposes and about 70% of these are medically important. Overusing antibiotics gives the bacteria time to adapt leaving higher doses or even stronger antibiotics neede...
35. ...to adapt leaving higher doses or even stronger antibiotics needed to combat the infection. Though antibiotics for growth promotion were banned throughout the EU in 2006, 40 countries worldwide still **use** antibiotics to promote growth. This can result in the transfer of resistant bacterial strains into the food that humans eat, causing potentially fatal transfer of disease. While the practice of using...
36. ...al usage in livestock to antimicrobial resistance is limited, the World Health Organization Advisory Group on Integrated Surveillance of Antimicrobial Resistance strongly recommended the reduction of **use** of medically important antimicrobials in livestock. Additionally, the Advisory Group stated that such antimicrobials should be expressly prohibited for both growth promotion and disease prevention in...
37. ...ion of antibiotics by livestock by 2030. In some countries such as Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa it is predicted that a 99% increase will occur. Several countries have restricted the **use** of antibiotics in livestock, including Canada, China, Japan, and the US. These restrictions are sometimes associated with a reduction of the prevalence of antimicrobial resistance in humans. In the U...
38. ...ance against these antimicrobial agents. Currently there are over 4000 antimicrobial pesticides registered with the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and sold to market, showing the widespread **use** of these agents. It is estimated that for every single meal a person consumes, 0.3 g of pesticides is used, as 90% of all pesticide use is in agriculture. A majority of these products are used to hel...
39. ...tection Agency (EPA) and sold to market, showing the widespread use of these agents. It is estimated that for every single meal a person consumes, 0.3 g of pesticides is used, as 90% of all pesticide **use** is in agriculture. A majority of these products are used to help defend against the spread of infectious diseases, and hopefully protect public health. But out of the large amount of pesticides used,...
40. ...r, and water these antimicrobial agents are able to spread, coming in contact with more microorganisms and leading to these microbes evolving mechanisms to tolerate and further resist pesticides. The **use** of antifungal azole pesticides that drive environmental azole resistance have been linked to azole resistance cases in the clinical setting. The same issues confront the novel antifungal classes (e.g...
41. ...als and livestock).  Such information gathered from wild bird biomes, can help identify patterns of diseased transmission and better target interventions.  These targeted interventions can inform the **use** of antimicrobial agents and reduce the persistence of multi-drug resistant organisms. Permafrost is a term used to refer to any ground that remained frozen for two years or more, with the oldest know...
42. ...eas of high resistance as well as information necessary for evaluating programs, introducing interventions and other changes made to fight or reverse antibiotic resistance. Delaying or minimizing the **use** of antibiotics for certain conditions may help safely reduce their use. Antimicrobial treatment duration should be based on the infection and other health problems a person may have. For many infecti...
43. ...programs, introducing interventions and other changes made to fight or reverse antibiotic resistance. Delaying or minimizing the use of antibiotics for certain conditions may help safely reduce their **use**. Antimicrobial treatment duration should be based on the infection and other health problems a person may have. For many infections once a person has improved there is little evidence that stopping t...
44. ...lications compared with immediate antibiotics, for example. When treating respiratory tract infections, clinical judgement is required as to the appropriate treatment (delayed or immediate antibiotic **use**). The study, "Shorter and Longer Antibiotic Durations for Respiratory Infections: To Fight Antimicrobial Resistance—A Retrospective Cross-Sectional Study in a Secondary Care Setting in the UK," highl...
45. ...resistance. The antimicrobial stewardship program will also provide pharmacists with the knowledge to educate patients that antibiotics will not work for a virus for example. Excessive antimicrobial **use** has become one of the top contributors to the evolution of antimicrobial resistance. Since the beginning of the antimicrobial era, antimicrobials have been used to treat a wide range of infectious di...
46. ...y in the clinic, proving a safe alternative to empirical antifungal therapy, and thus underpinning antifungal stewardship schemes. Antimicrobial stewardship teams in hospitals are encouraging optimal **use** of antimicrobials. The goals of antimicrobial stewardship are to help practitioners pick the right drug at the right dose and duration of therapy while preventing misuse and minimizing the developmen...
47. ...their expectations rather than reassurance from the clinician. Adequate time for consultation and plain language information can help parents make informed decisions and avoid unnecessary antibiotic **use**. The prescriber should closely adhere to the five rights of drug administration: the right patient, the right drug, the right dose, the right route, and the right time. Microbiological samples should...
48. ...usage of antibiotics together with persistent infectious disease levels have led to a dangerous cycle in which reliance on antimicrobials increases while the efficacy of drugs diminishes. The proper **use** of infrastructure for water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) can result in a 47–72 percent decrease of diarrhea cases treated with antibiotics depending on the type of intervention and its effectivenes...
49. ...ntimicrobials need to improve the treatment of their wastewater (by using industrial wastewater treatment processes) to reduce the release of residues into the environment. It is established that the **use** of antibiotics in animal husbandry can give rise to AMR resistances in bacteria found in food animals to the antibiotics being administered (through injections or medicated feeds). For this reason on...
50. ...t are deemed "not-clinically relevant" are used in these practices. Unlike resistance to antibacterials, antifungal resistance can be driven by arable farming, currently there is no regulation on the **use** of similar antifungal classes in agriculture and the clinic. Recent studies have shown that the prophylactic use of "non-priority" or "non-clinically relevant" antimicrobials in feeds can potentially...
51. ...al resistance can be driven by arable farming, currently there is no regulation on the use of similar antifungal classes in agriculture and the clinic. Recent studies have shown that the prophylactic **use** of "non-priority" or "non-clinically relevant" antimicrobials in feeds can potentially, under certain conditions, lead to co-selection of environmental AMR bacteria with resistance to medically impor...
52. ...far-reaching implications for human health. In 1997, European Union health ministers voted to ban avoparcin and four additional antibiotics used to promote animal growth in 1999. In 2006 a ban on the **use** of antibiotics in European feed, with the exception of two antibiotics in poultry feeds, became effective. In Scandinavia, there is evidence that the ban has led to a lower prevalence of antibiotic r...
53. ...alence of antibiotic resistance in (nonhazardous) animal bacterial populations. As of 2004, several European countries established a decline of antimicrobial resistance in humans through limiting the **use** of antimicrobials in agriculture and food industries without jeopardizing animal health or economic cost. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)...
54. ...lture and food industries without jeopardizing animal health or economic cost. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) collect data on antibiotic **use** in humans and in a more limited fashion in animals. About 80% of antibiotic use in the U.S. is for agriculture purposes, and about 70% of these are medically important. This gives reason for concern...
55. ...he United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) collect data on antibiotic use in humans and in a more limited fashion in animals. About 80% of antibiotic **use** in the U.S. is for agriculture purposes, and about 70% of these are medically important. This gives reason for concern about the antibiotic resistance crisis in the U.S. and more reason to monitor it...
56. ...lin and other drugs) to lay animal owners for administration to their own animals nonetheless continued in all states. In 2000, the FDA announced their intention to revoke approval of fluoroquinolone **use** in poultry production because of substantial evidence linking it to the emergence of fluoroquinolone-resistant "Campylobacter" infections in humans. Legal challenges from the food animal and pharmace...
57. ...pylobacter" infections in humans. Legal challenges from the food animal and pharmaceutical industries delayed the final decision to do so until 2006. Fluroquinolones have been banned from extra-label **use** in food animals in the USA since 2007. However, they remain widely used in companion and exotic animals. At the 79th United Nations General Assembly High-Level Meeting on AMR on 26 September 2024, wo...
58. ...or 2017, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO) and the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) are together calling for responsible **use** of antibiotics in humans and animals to reduce the emergence of antibiotic resistance. United Nations In 2016 the Secretary-General of the United Nations convened the Interagency Coordination Group (...
59. ...hich was adapted to over 1000 generations under LSMMG, but without any antibiotic exposure; the strain in this case did not acquire any such resistance. Thus, irrespective of where they are used, the **use** of an antibiotic would likely result in persistent resistance to that antibiotic, as well as cross-resistance to other antimicrobials. In recent years, the emergence and spread of β-lactamases called...
60. ...ptococcus neoformans" and "Aspergillus fumigatus" cause most of these infections and antifungal resistance occurs in all of them. Multidrug resistance in fungi is increasing because of the widespread **use** of antifungal drugs to treat infections in immunocompromised individuals and the use of some agricultural antifungals. Antifungal resistant disease is associated with increased mortality. Some fungi...
61. ...antifungal resistance occurs in all of them. Multidrug resistance in fungi is increasing because of the widespread use of antifungal drugs to treat infections in immunocompromised individuals and the **use** of some agricultural antifungals. Antifungal resistant disease is associated with increased mortality. Some fungi (e.g. Candida krusei and fluconazole) exhibit intrinsic resistance to certain antifun...
62. ...classes, whereas some species develop antifungal resistance to external pressures. Antifungal resistance is a One Health concern, driven by multiple extrinsic factors, including extensive fungicidal **use**, overuse of clinical antifungals, environmental change and host factors. In the USA fluconazole-resistant Candida species and azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus have been highlighted as a grow...
63. ...isms depend on up-regulation of selected genes (for instance reflux pumps) rather than defined mutations that are amenable to molecular detection. Due to the limited number of antifungals in clinical **use** and the increasing global incidence of antifungal resistance, using the existing antifungals in combination might be beneficial in some cases but further research is needed. Similarly, other approach...
64. ...sting resistance genes are also passed on between microbial species that are not closely related.<ref name="10.1038/s41467-022-34312-7"></ref> The WHO provides the Global Antimicrobial Resistance and **Use** Surveillance System (GLASS) reports which summarize annual (e.g. 2020's) data on international AMR, also including an interactive dashboard. Public Health England reported that the total number of an...
65. ...ed by 18% and deaths in hospitals decreased by 30%. The COVID pandemic caused a reversal of much of the progress made on attenuating the effects of antibiotic resistance, resulting in more antibiotic **use**, more resistant infections, and less data on preventive action. Hospital-onset infections and deaths both increased by 15% in 2020, and significantly higher rates of infections were reported for 4 ou...
66. ...0 pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies" from around the world called for "transformational commercial models" at a global level to spur research and development on antibiotics and on the "enhanced **use** of diagnostic tests that can rapidly identify the infecting organism". A number of countries are considering or implementing delinked payment models for new antimicrobials whereby payment is based on...
67. ...inked payment models for new antimicrobials whereby payment is based on value rather than volume of drug sales. This offers the opportunity to pay for valuable new drugs even if they are reserved for **use** in relatively rare drug resistant infections. Some global health scholars have argued that a global, legal framework is needed to prevent and control antimicrobial resistance. For instance, binding g...
68. ...lobal health scholars have argued that a global, legal framework is needed to prevent and control antimicrobial resistance. For instance, binding global policies could be used to create antimicrobial **use** standards, regulate antibiotic marketing, and strengthen global surveillance systems. Ensuring compliance of involved parties is a challenge. Global antimicrobial resistance policies could take lesso...
69. ...ile (C. diff), all of which continue to be responsible for severe healthcare-associated infections (HAIs). The COVID-19 pandemic led to a significant disruption in healthcare, with an increase in the **use** of antibiotics during the treatment of viral infections. This rise in antibiotic prescribing, coupled with overwhelmed healthcare systems, contributed to a resurgence in AMR during the pandemic years...
70. ...mic years. A 2021 CDC report identified a sharp increase in HAIs caused by resistant pathogens in COVID-19 patients, a trend that has persisted into 2023. Recent data suggest that although antibiotic **use** has decreased since the pandemic, some resistant pathogens remain prevalent in healthcare settings. The CDC has also expanded its Get Ahead of Sepsis campaign in 2023, focusing on raising awareness o...
71. ...athogens remain prevalent in healthcare settings. The CDC has also expanded its Get Ahead of Sepsis campaign in 2023, focusing on raising awareness of AMR's role in sepsis and promoting the judicious **use** of antibiotics in both healthcare and community settings. This initiative has reached millions through social media, healthcare facilities, and public health outreach, aiming to educate the public on...
72. ...ic misuse. According to World Health Organization, policymakers can help tackle resistance by strengthening resistance-tracking and laboratory capacity and by regulating and promoting the appropriate **use** of medicines. Policymakers and industry can help tackle resistance by: fostering innovation and research and development of new tools; and promoting cooperation and information sharing among all stak...
73. ...ng can be used to anticipate the likely effects of different policies. Distinguishing infections requiring antibiotics from self-limiting ones is clinically challenging. In order to guide appropriate **use** of antibiotics and prevent the evolution and spread of antimicrobial resistance, diagnostic tests that provide clinicians with timely, actionable results are needed. Acute febrile illness is a common...
74. ...the absence of a simple diagnostic test to identify alternative causes of fever, clinicians presume that a non-malarial febrile illness is most likely a bacterial infection, leading to inappropriate **use** of antibiotics. Multiple studies have shown that the use of malaria rapid diagnostic tests without reliable tools to distinguish other fever causes has resulted in increased antibiotic use. Antimicro...
75. ...rnative causes of fever, clinicians presume that a non-malarial febrile illness is most likely a bacterial infection, leading to inappropriate use of antibiotics. Multiple studies have shown that the **use** of malaria rapid diagnostic tests without reliable tools to distinguish other fever causes has resulted in increased antibiotic use. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST) can facilitate a precis...
76. ...ppropriate use of antibiotics. Multiple studies have shown that the use of malaria rapid diagnostic tests without reliable tools to distinguish other fever causes has resulted in increased antibiotic **use**. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing (AST) can facilitate a precision medicine approach to treatment by helping clinicians to prescribe more effective and targeted antimicrobial therapy. At the same...
77. ...AMR. Clinical investigation to rule out bacterial infections are often done for patients with pediatric acute respiratory infections. Currently it is unclear if rapid viral testing affects antibiotic **use** in children. Vaccines are an essential part of the response to reduce AMR as they prevent infections, reduce the use and overuse of antimicrobials, and slow the emergence and spread of drug-resistant...
78. ...tory infections. Currently it is unclear if rapid viral testing affects antibiotic use in children. Vaccines are an essential part of the response to reduce AMR as they prevent infections, reduce the **use** and overuse of antimicrobials, and slow the emergence and spread of drug-resistant pathogens. Microorganisms usually do not develop resistance to vaccines because vaccines reduce the spread of the in...
79. ...e to vaccines because vaccines reduce the spread of the infection and target the pathogen in multiple ways in the same host and possibly in different ways between different hosts. Furthermore, if the **use** of vaccines increases, there is evidence that antibiotic resistant strains of pathogens will decrease; the need for antibiotics will naturally decrease as vaccines prevent infection before it occurs....
80. ...imicrobials from volume-based sales. In the UK, a market entry reward scheme has been pioneered by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) whereby an annual subscription fee is paid for **use** of strategically valuable antimicrobial agents – cefiderocol and ceftazidime-aviabactam are the first agents to be used in this manner and the scheme is potential blueprint for comparable programs in...
81. ...aches with supercomputers for the development of new antibiotic derivatives to deal with antimicrobial resistance. Using antibiotic-free alternatives in bone infection treatment may help decrease the **use** of antibiotics and thus antimicrobial resistance. The bone regeneration material bioactive glass S53P4 has shown to effectively inhibit the bacterial growth of up to 50 clinically relevant bacteria i...
82. ...termined, providing insights into how antimicrobial resistance is spreading through a population and allowing for the identification of resistance that is of concern. Phage therapy is the therapeutic **use** of bacteriophages to treat pathogenic bacterial infections. Phage therapy has many potential applications in human medicine as well as dentistry, veterinary science, and agriculture. Phage therapy re...
83. ...phages to treat pathogenic bacterial infections. Phage therapy has many potential applications in human medicine as well as dentistry, veterinary science, and agriculture. Phage therapy relies on the **use** of naturally occurring bacteriophages to infect and lyse bacteria at the site of infection in a host. Due to current advances in genetics and biotechnology these bacteriophages can possibly be manufa...
84. ...in genetics and biotechnology these bacteriophages can possibly be manufactured to treat specific infections. Phages can be bioengineered to target multidrug-resistant bacterial infections, and their **use** involves the added benefit of preventing the elimination of beneficial bacteria in the human body. Phages destroy bacterial cell walls and membrane through the use of lytic proteins which kill bacter...
85. ...ant bacterial infections, and their use involves the added benefit of preventing the elimination of beneficial bacteria in the human body. Phages destroy bacterial cell walls and membrane through the **use** of lytic proteins which kill bacteria by making many holes from the inside out. Bacteriophages can even possess the ability to digest the biofilm that many bacteria develop that protect them from ant...
86. ...hat classifies the active ingredients of drugs according to the organ or system on which they act and their therapeutic, pharmacological and chemical properties. Its purpose is an aid to monitor drug **use** and for research to improve quality medication use. It does not imply drug recommendation or efficacy. It is controlled by the World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Drug Statistics Metho...
87. ...rding to the organ or system on which they act and their therapeutic, pharmacological and chemical properties. Its purpose is an aid to monitor drug use and for research to improve quality medication **use**. It does not imply drug recommendation or efficacy. It is controlled by the World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Drug Statistics Methodology (WHOCC), and was first published in 1976. Th...
88. ...e same code if they have the same active substance and indications. Each bottom-level ATC code stands for a pharmaceutically used substance, or a combination of substances, in a single indication (or **use**). This means that one drug can have more than one code, for example acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) has as a drug for local oral treatment, as a platelet inhibitor, and as an analgesic and antipyretic...
89. ...products" (ATCvet) is used to classify veterinary drugs. ATCvet codes can be created by placing the letter Q in front of the ATC code of most human medications. For example, furosemide for veterinary **use** has the code QC03CA01. Some codes are used exclusively for veterinary drugs, such as "QI Immunologicals", "QJ51 Antibacterials for intramammary use" or "QN05AX90 amperozide". The Herbal ATC system (H...
90. ...medications. For example, furosemide for veterinary use has the code QC03CA01. Some codes are used exclusively for veterinary drugs, such as "QI Immunologicals", "QJ51 Antibacterials for intramammary **use**" or "QN05AX90 amperozide". The Herbal ATC system (HATC) is an ATC classification of herbal substances; it differs from the regular ATC system by using 4 digits instead of 2 at the 5th level group. Th...
91. ...osity which he assumes is given by Stokes's formula for the viscosity. Introducing the ideal gas law per unit volume for the osmotic pressure, the formula becomes identical to that of Einstein's. The **use** of Stokes's law in Nernst's case, as well as in Einstein and Smoluchowski, is not strictly applicable since it does not apply to the case where the radius of the sphere is small in comparison with th...
92. ...pical size range for colloidal particles. The kinetic process of destabilisation can be rather long (up to several months or years for some products). Thus, it is often required for the formulator to **use** further accelerating methods to reach reasonable development time for new product design. Thermal methods are the most commonly used and consist of increasing temperature to accelerate destabilisatio...
93. ...s also increase the interstitial volume and intracellular volume. However, there is still controversy to the actual difference in efficacy by this difference, and much of the research related to this **use** of colloids is based on fraudulent research by Joachim Boldt. Another difference is that crystalloids generally are much cheaper than colloids. Donald Rumsfeld Donald Henry Rumsfeld (July 9, 1932 – J...
94. ...al-Qaeda relationship, which included some conclusions that were inconsistent with the consensus of the Intelligence Community, to senior decision-makers". Rumsfeld's tenure was controversial for its **use** of torture and the Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse scandal. Rumsfeld gradually lost political support and resigned in late 2006. In his retirement years, he published an autobiography, "", as w...
95. ...econsider. Rumsfeld also informed Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz that "Our efforts to assist were inhibited by certain things that made it difficult for us ... citing the **use** of chemical weapons." Rumsfeld wrote in his memoir "Known and Unknown" that his meeting with Hussein "has been the subject of gossip, rumors, and crackpot conspiracy theories for more than a quarter...
96. ...in a press conference at the Pentagon stating "While our raids today focus on the Taliban and the foreign terrorists in Afghanistan, our aim remains much broader. Our objective is to defeat those who **use** terrorism and those who house or support them. The world stands united in this effort". Rumsfeld also stated "the only way to deal with these terrorist threats is to go at them where they exist. You...
97. ...a man who was photographed hundreds of times shooting off rifles and showing how tough he was, and in fact, he wasn't very tough, he was cowering in a hole in the ground, and had a pistol and didn't **use** it, and certainly did not put up any fight at all. I think that ... he resulted in the death of an awful lot of Iraqi people, in the last analysis, he seemed not terribly brave." As Secretary of Defe...
98. ...best interest of all to hand these prisoners over to their respective countries. Additionally, it was determined that maintaining a large holding facility was, at the time, unrealistic. Instead, the **use** of many facilities such as Abu Ghraib to house prisoners of interest prior to handing them over, and Rumsfeld defended the Bush administration's decision to detain enemy combatants. Because of this,...
99. ...n prosecutor Wolfgang Kaleck filed a criminal complaint charging Rumsfeld and 11 other U.S. officials as war criminals who either ordered the torture of prisoners or drafted laws that legitimated its **use**. The charges based on breaches of the UN Convention against Torture and the German Code of Crimes against International Law. Rumsfeld's disclosure of the whistleblower's identity during a Senate hear...
100. ...but involves other factors like regulating lasers, cellular phones, and condoms. In addition, the FDA takes control of diseases in the contexts varying from household pets to human sperm donated for **use** in assisted reproduction. The FDA is led by the commissioner of Food and Drugs, appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. The commissioner reports to the secretary of heal...
101. ...cine (CVM). With the passing of the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017, the FDA projects a 64% increase in employees to 18,000 over the next 15 years and wants to add approximately of office and special **use** space to their existing facilities. The National Capital Planning Commission approved a new master plan for this expansion in December 2018, and construction is expected to be completed by 2035, depe...
102. ...dustry user fees for FDA services. For example, pharmaceutical firms pay fees to expedite drug reviews. According to Forbes, pharmaceutical firms provide 75% of the FDA's drug review budget Emergency **Use** Authorization (EUA) is a mechanism that was created to facilitate the availability and use of medical countermeasures, including vaccines and personal protective equipment, during public health emerg...
103. ...rug reviews. According to Forbes, pharmaceutical firms provide 75% of the FDA's drug review budget Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) is a mechanism that was created to facilitate the availability and **use** of medical countermeasures, including vaccines and personal protective equipment, during public health emergencies such as the Zika virus epidemic, the Ebola virus epidemic and the COVID-19 pandemic....
104. ...y Supplement Ingredient Advisory List" that includes ingredients that sometimes appear on dietary supplements but need further evaluation. An ingredient is added to this list when it is excluded from **use** in a dietary supplement, does not appear to be an approved food additive or recognized as safe, and/or is subjected to the requirement for pre-market notification without having a satisfied requireme...
105. ...nstick coatings; nor does the FDA inspect or test these materials. Through their governing of processes, however, the FDA does have a set of regulations that cover the formulation, manufacturing, and **use** of nonstick coatings. Hence, materials like Polytetrafluoroethylene (Teflon) are not and cannot be considered as FDA Approved, but rather, they are a "FDA Compliant" or "FDA Acceptable". Medical coun...
106. ...to be "safe and effective when used as directed". Very rare, limited exceptions to this multi-step process involving animal testing and controlled clinical trials can be granted out of compassionate **use** protocols. This was the case during the 2015 Ebola epidemic with the use, by prescription and authorization, of ZMapp and other experimental treatments, and for new drugs that can be used to treat de...
107. ...eptions to this multi-step process involving animal testing and controlled clinical trials can be granted out of compassionate use protocols. This was the case during the 2015 Ebola epidemic with the **use**, by prescription and authorization, of ZMapp and other experimental treatments, and for new drugs that can be used to treat debilitating and/or very rare conditions for which no existing remedies or...
108. ...the agency's health and safety guidelines . The drug advertising regulation contains two broad requirements: (1) a company may advertise or promote a drug only for the specific indication or medical **use** for which it was approved by FDA. Also, an advertisement must contain a "fair balance" between the benefits and the risks (side effects) of a drug. The regulation of drug advertising in the U.S. is d...
109. ...e than what the FDA approved. Due to this approval requirement, manufacturers were prohibited from advertising COVID-19 vaccines during the period in which they had only been approved under Emergency **Use** Authorization. After NDA approval, the sponsor must then review and report to the FDA every single patient adverse drug experience it learns of. They must report unexpected serious and fatal adverse...
110. ...roved ingredients that are combined in various ways to create more than 100,000 OTC drug products. Many OTC drug ingredients had been previously approved prescription drugs now deemed safe enough for **use** without a medical practitioner's supervision like ibuprofen. In 2014, the FDA added an Ebola treatment being developed by Canadian pharmaceutical company Tekmira to the Fast Track program, but halted...
111. ...ed as increasingly important in the face of a major outbreak of the disease in West Africa that began in late March 2014 and ended in June 2016. During the coronavirus pandemic, FDA granted emergency **use** authorization for personal protective equipment (PPE), in vitro diagnostic equipment, ventilators and other medical devices. On March 18, 2020, FDA inspectors postponed most foreign facility inspecti...
112. ...nicotine permitted in tobacco cigarettes. With acceptance of premarket notification 510(k) k033391 in January 2004, the FDA granted Ronald Sherman permission to produce and market medical maggots for **use** in humans or other animals as a prescription medical device. Medical maggots represent the first living organism allowed by the Food and Drug Administration for production and marketing as a prescrip...
113. ...od and Drug Administration for production and marketing as a prescription medical device. In June 2004, the FDA cleared "Hirudo medicinalis" (medicinal leeches) as the second living organism legal to **use** as a medical device. The FDA also requires that milk be pasteurized to remove bacteria. In February 2011, President Barack Obama and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper issued a "Declaration on a...
114. ...thorized the FDA to issue minimum food standards of identity for all mass-produced foods to reduce food fraud. Soon after passage of the 1938 Act, the FDA began to designate certain drugs as safe for **use** only under the supervision of a medical professional, and the category of "prescription-only" drugs was securely codified into law by the Durham-Humphrey Amendment in 1951. These developments confirm...
115. ...d 2000s. Though Virginia passed legislation allowing doctors to recommend cannabis for glaucoma or the side effects of chemotherapy, a more widespread trend began in California with the Compassionate **Use** Act of 1996. When the FDA requested Endo Pharmaceuticals on June 8, 2017, to remove "oxymorphone hydrochloride" from the market, it was the first request in FDA history to recall an effective drug ov...
116. ...uana. A 2006 court case, "Abigail Alliance v. von Eschenbach", would have forced radical changes in FDA regulation of unapproved drugs. The Abigail Alliance argued that the FDA must license drugs for **use** by terminally ill patients with "desperate diagnoses", after they have completed Phase I testing. The case won an initial appeal in May 2006, but that decision was reversed by a March 2007 rehearing....
117. ...se to create an ANDA process for the approval of generic biologics, but were not passed. In 2013, a guidance was issued to regulate mobile medical applications and protect users from their unintended **use**. This guidance distinguishes the apps subjected to regulation based on the marketing claims of the apps. Incorporation of the guidelines during the development phase of these apps has been proposed f...
118. ...users would typically install a client application on their computers and upload the package through it to FDA server. In AS2, which is recommended for automated or high-volume submissions, users can **use** any standard AS2 software to transmit the package to FDA by including additional routing details on top of standard AS2, in the form of custom HTTP request headers. The FDA has regulatory oversight o...
119. ...As a result, FDG-PET can be used for diagnosis, staging, and monitoring treatment of cancers, particularly in Hodgkin lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and lung cancer. A 2020 review of research on the **use** of PET for Hodgkin lymphoma found evidence that negative findings in interim PET scans are linked to higher overall survival and progression-free survival; however, the certainty of the available evi...
120. ...clotron for such uses, which is difficult. PET imaging with FDG takes advantage of the fact that the brain is normally a rapid user of glucose. Standard FDG PET of the brain measures regional glucose **use** and can be used in neuropathological diagnosis. Brain pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) greatly decrease brain metabolism of both glucose and oxygen in tandem. Therefore FDG PET of the bra...
121. ...h MRI, it may be diagnosed with PET. The development of a number of novel probes for non-invasive, "in-vivo" PET imaging of neuroaggregate in human brain has brought amyloid imaging close to clinical **use**. The earliest amyloid imaging probes included [F]FDDNP developed at the University of California, Los Angeles and Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) developed at the University of Pittsburgh. These probes p...
122. ...linical PET scanner as a scanner for clinical (rather than research) animal diagnosis. Because of cost as well as the marginal utility of detecting cancer metastases in companion animals (the primary **use** of this modality), veterinary PET scanning is expected to be rarely available in the immediate future. PET imaging has been used for imaging muscles and bones. FDG is the most commonly used tracer fo...
123. ...has to be measured after the exercise is completed. This is due to the time it takes for FDG to accumulate in the activated muscles. Together with [F]sodium floride, PET for bone imaging has been in **use** for 60 years for measuring regional bone metabolism and blood flow using static and dynamic scans. Researchers have recently started using [F]sodium fluoride to study bone metastasis as well. PET sca...
124. ...that can be probed with PET are virtually limitless, and radiotracers for new target molecules and processes are continuing to be synthesized. As of this writing there are already dozens in clinical **use** and hundreds applied in research. In 2020 by far the most commonly used radiotracer in clinical PET scanning is the carbohydrate derivative FDG. This radiotracer is used in essentially all scans for...
125. ...pped to imaging centers. Recently rubidium-82 generators have become commercially available. These contain strontium-82, which decays by electron capture to produce positron-emitting rubidium-82. The **use** of positron-emitting isotopes of metals in PET scans has been reviewed, including elements not listed above, such as lanthanides. The isotope Zr has been applied to the tracking and quantification of...
126. ...-of-flight (TOF) PET: For modern systems with a higher time resolution (roughly 3 nanoseconds) a technique called "time-of-flight" is used to improve the overall performance. Time-of-flight PET makes **use** of very fast gamma-ray detectors and data processing system which can more precisely decide the difference in time between the detection of the two photons. It is impossible to localize the point of...
127. ...accomplished without the need for an integrated PET-CT or PET-MRI scanner by using a device known as the N-localizer. The minimization of radiation dose to the subject is an attractive feature of the **use** of short-lived radionuclides. Besides its established role as a diagnostic technique, PET has an expanding role as a method to assess the response to therapy, in particular, cancer therapy, where the...
128. ...the risk to the patient from lack of knowledge about disease progress is much greater than the risk from the test radiation. Since the tracers are radioactive, the elderly and pregnant are unable to **use** it due to risks posed by radiation. Limitations to the widespread use of PET arise from the high costs of cyclotrons needed to produce the short-lived radionuclides for PET scanning and the need for...
129. ...is much greater than the risk from the test radiation. Since the tracers are radioactive, the elderly and pregnant are unable to use it due to risks posed by radiation. Limitations to the widespread **use** of PET arise from the high costs of cyclotrons needed to produce the short-lived radionuclides for PET scanning and the need for specially adapted on-site chemical synthesis apparatus to produce the...
130. ...aintaining such systems, and most clinical PET is supported by third-party suppliers of radiotracers that can supply many sites simultaneously. This limitation restricts clinical PET primarily to the **use** of tracers labelled with fluorine-18, which has a half-life of 110 minutes and can be transported a reasonable distance before use, or to rubidium-82 (used as rubidium-82 chloride) with a half-life o...
131. ...ultaneously. This limitation restricts clinical PET primarily to the use of tracers labelled with fluorine-18, which has a half-life of 110 minutes and can be transported a reasonable distance before **use**, or to rubidium-82 (used as rubidium-82 chloride) with a half-life of 1.27 minutes, which is created in a portable generator and is used for myocardial perfusion studies. In recent years a few on-sit...
132. ...inning in the 1950s contributed significantly to the development of PET technology and included the first demonstration of annihilation radiation for medical imaging. Their innovations, including the **use** of light pipes and volumetric analysis, have been important in the deployment of PET imaging. In 1961, James Robertson and his associates at Brookhaven National Laboratory built the first single-plan...
133. ...rol tools such as the Jaszczak phantom. Pharmacology Pharmacology is the science of drugs and medications, including a substance's origin, composition, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, therapeutic **use**, and toxicology. More specifically, it is the study of the interactions that occur between a living organism and chemicals that affect normal or abnormal biochemical function. If substances have medi...
134. ...itional Chinese, Mongolian, Tibetan and Korean medicine. However much of this has since been regarded as pseudoscience. Pharmacological substances known as entheogens may have spiritual and religious **use** and historical context. In the 17th century, the English physician Nicholas Culpeper translated and used pharmacological texts. Culpeper detailed plants and the conditions they could treat. In the 18...
135. ...allowed analysis of drugs' effects on tissues. The development of the ligand binding assay in 1945 allowed quantification of the binding affinity of drugs at chemical targets. Modern pharmacologists **use** techniques from genetics, molecular biology, biochemistry, and other advanced tools to transform information about molecular mechanisms and targets into therapies directed against disease, defects or...
136. ...n the central and peripheral nervous systems; immunopharmacology in the immune system. Other divisions include cardiovascular, renal and endocrine pharmacology. Psychopharmacology is the study of the **use** of drugs that affect the psyche, mind and behavior (e.g. antidepressants) in treating mental disorders (e.g. depression). It incorporates approaches and techniques from neuropharmacology, animal beha...
137. ...ted throughout the body and being more concentrated in highly perfused organs. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is responsible for creating guidelines for the approval and **use** of drugs. The FDA requires that all approved drugs fulfill two requirements: Gaining FDA approval usually takes several years. Testing done on animals must be extensive and must include several speci...
138. ...ral years. Testing done on animals must be extensive and must include several species to help in the evaluation of both the effectiveness and toxicity of the drug. The dosage of any drug approved for **use** is intended to fall within a range in which the drug produces a therapeutic effect or desired outcome. The safety and effectiveness of prescription drugs in the U.S. are regulated by the federal Pres...
139. ...petroleum from a damaged tanker, that does not dissolve in the ocean water but rather floats on the surface. Serotonin syndrome Serotonin syndrome (SS) is a group of symptoms that may occur with the **use** of certain serotonergic medications or drugs. The symptoms can range from mild to severe, and are potentially fatal. Symptoms in mild cases include high blood pressure and a fast heart rate; usually...
140. ...pupils, and diarrhea. In severe cases, body temperature can increase to greater than . Complications may include seizures and extensive muscle breakdown. Serotonin syndrome is typically caused by the **use** of two or more serotonergic medications or drugs. This may include selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI...
141. ...consequence of excess serotonin on the central nervous system. Onset of symptoms is typically within a day of the extra serotonin. Diagnosis is based on a person's symptoms and history of medication **use**. Other conditions that can produce similar symptoms such as neuroleptic malignant syndrome, malignant hyperthermia, anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, and meningitis should be ruled out. No labor...
142. ...dence that it has any significant serotonergic activity, it is thought unlikely to produce the syndrome. In 2006 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued an alert suggesting that the combined **use** of either SSRIs or SNRIs with triptan medications or sibutramine could potentially lead to severe cases of SS. This has been disputed by other researchers, as none of the cases reported by the FDA me...
143. ...is respiratory depression, it is still possible for an individual to develop SS from certain opioids without the loss of consciousness. However, most cases of opioid-related SS involve the concurrent **use** of a serotergenic drug such as antidepressants. Nonetheless, it is not uncommon for individuals taking opioids to also be taking antidepressants due to the comorbidity of pain and depression. Cases w...
144. ...the intensity of bowel sounds, skin color, and the presence or absence of sweating. The patient's history also plays an important role in diagnosis, investigations should include inquiries about the **use** of prescription and over-the-counter drugs, illicit substances, and dietary supplements, as all these agents have been implicated in the development of SS. To fulfill the Hunter Criteria, a patient m...
145. ...eptadine is only available as tablets and therefore can only be administered orally or via a nasogastric tube; it is unlikely to be effective in people administered activated charcoal and has limited **use** in severe cases. Cyproheptadine can be stopped when the person is no longer experiencing symptoms and the half life of serotonergic medications already passed. Additional pharmacological treatment fo...
146. ...uinuclidinyl benzilate, midazolam, flunitrazepam, sodium thiopental, and amobarbital, among others. Although a variety of such substances have been tested, serious issues have been raised about their **use** scientifically, ethically and legally. There is currently no drug proven to cause consistent or predictable enhancement of truth-telling. Subjects questioned under the influence of such substances ha...
147. ...f investigating civil and criminal cases, they have not been accepted by Western legal systems and legal experts as genuine investigative tools. In the United States, it has been suggested that their **use** is a potential violation of the Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution (the right to remain silent). Concerns have also been raised through the European Court of Human Rights arguing that use of a...
148. ...their use is a potential violation of the Fifth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution (the right to remain silent). Concerns have also been raised through the European Court of Human Rights arguing that **use** of a truth serum could be considered a violation of a human right to be free from degrading treatment, or could be considered a form of torture. It has been noted to be a violation of the Inter-Ameri...
149. ...n arranged to administer scopolamine to prisoners in the Dallas County jail. Both men were believed to be guilty, both denied guilt under scopolamine, and both were eventually acquitted. In 1926, the **use** of scopolamine was rejected in a court case, by Judge Robert Walker Franklin, who questioned both its scientific origin, and the uncertainty of its effect. The United States Office of Strategic Servi...
150. ...a court case, by Judge Robert Walker Franklin, who questioned both its scientific origin, and the uncertainty of its effect. The United States Office of Strategic Services (OSS) experimented with the **use** of mescaline, scopolamine, and marijuana as possible truth drugs during World War II. They concluded that the effects were not much different from those of alcohol: subjects became more talkative but...
151. ...nreliable. During the 1950s and 1960s, the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) carried out a number of investigations including Project MKUltra and Project MKDELTA, which involved illegal **use** of truth drugs including LSD. A CIA report from 1961, released in 1993, concludes: In 1963, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled, in "Townsend v. Sain", that confessions produced as a result of ingestion of...
152. ...ffice as a complete brainwashing job." In 1995, during the search for evidence that could acquit Andres English-Howard, his defense attorney employed methohexital. More recently, a judge approved the **use** of narcoanalysis in the 2012 Aurora, Colorado shooting trial to evaluate whether James Eagan Holmes's state of mind was valid for an insanity plea. Judge William Sylvester ruled that prosecutors woul...
153. ...gs. It is not known whether such an examination was carried out. William Shepherd, chair of the criminal justice section of the American Bar Association, stated, with respect to the Holmes case, that **use** of a "truth drug" as proposed, "to ascertain the veracity of a defendant's plea of insanity... would provoke intense legal argument relating to Holmes's right to remain silent under the fifth amendme...
154. ...ove yields. Excess reagents can simply be washed away without the need for additional purification steps such as chromatography. Over the years, a variety of methods have been developed to refine the **use** of solid-phase organic synthesis in combinatorial chemistry, including efforts to increase the ease of synthesis and purification, as well as non-traditional methods to characterize intermediate prod...
155. ...tion-phase reactions. The single purification step at the end of a synthesis allows one or more impurities to be removed, assuming the chemical structure of the offending impurity is known. While the **use** of solid-supported reagents greatly simplifies the synthesis of compounds, many combinatorial syntheses require multiple steps, each of which still requires some form of purification. Armstrong, et a...
156. ...large library of oligopeptides by split synthesis. The drawback to making many thousands of compounds is that it is difficult to determine the structure of the formed compounds. Their solution is to **use** molecular tags, where a tiny amount (1 pmol/bead) of a dye is attached to the beads, and the identity of a certain bead can be determined by analyzing which tags are present on the bead. Despite how...
157. ...up to 40 chemical reactions in parallel. These efforts led to the first commercially available equipment for combinatorial chemistry (Diversomer synthesizer which was sold by Chemglass) and the first **use** of liquid handling robotics within a chemistry labortory. This method uses a device that automates the resin loading and wash cycles, as well as the reaction cycle monitoring and purification, and de...
158. ...r 40 individual reactions in parallel. This and several other pioneering efforts in combinatorial chemistry were featured as "classical" papers in the field in 1999. Oftentimes, it is not possible to **use** expensive equipment, and Schwabacher, et al. describe a simple method of combining parallel synthesis of library members and evaluation of entire libraries of compounds. In their method, a thread tha...
159. ...honates to generate combinatorial libraries of small molecules. To generate the imine library, an amino acid tethered to a resin is reacted in the presence of an aldehyde. The authors demonstrate the **use** of fast C gel phase NMR spectroscopy and magic angle spinning 1 H NMR spectroscopy to monitor the progress of reactions and showed that most imines could be formed in as little as 10 minutes at room...
160. ...s little as 10 minutes at room temperature when trimethyl orthoformate was used as the solvent. The formed imines were then derivatized to generate 4-thiazolidinones, B-lactams, and pyrrolidines. The **use** of solid-phase supports greatly simplifies the synthesis of large combinatorial libraries of compounds. This is done by anchoring a starting material to a solid support and then running subsequent re...
161. ...done by anchoring a starting material to a solid support and then running subsequent reactions until a sufficiently large library is built, after which the products are cleaved from the support. The **use** of solid-phase purification has also been demonstrated for use in solution-phase synthesis schemes in conjunction with standard liquid-liquid extraction purification techniques. Combinatorial librari...
162. ...hen running subsequent reactions until a sufficiently large library is built, after which the products are cleaved from the support. The use of solid-phase purification has also been demonstrated for **use** in solution-phase synthesis schemes in conjunction with standard liquid-liquid extraction purification techniques. Combinatorial libraries are special multi-component mixtures of small-molecule chemi...
163. ...cess. They differ from collection of individual compounds as well as from series of compounds prepared by parallel synthesis. It is an important feature that mixtures are used in their synthesis. The **use** of mixtures ensures the very high efficiency of the process. Both reactants can be mixtures and in this case the procedure would be even more efficient. For practical reasons however, it is advisable...
164. ...mixtures ensures the very high efficiency of the process. Both reactants can be mixtures and in this case the procedure would be even more efficient. For practical reasons however, it is advisable to **use** the split-mix method in which one of two mixtures is replaced by single building blocks (BBs). The mixtures are so important that there are no combinatorial libraries without using mixture in the syn...
165. ...e found about their synthesis and application in the page DNA-encoded chemical library. The DNA encoded soluble combinatorial libraries have drawbacks, too. First of all the advantage coming from the **use** of solid support is completely lost. In addition, the polyionic character of DNA encoding chains limits the utility of non-aqueous solvents in the synthesis. For this reason many laboratories choose...
166. ...addition, the polyionic character of DNA encoding chains limits the utility of non-aqueous solvents in the synthesis. For this reason many laboratories choose to develop DNA compatible reactions for **use** in the synthesis of DECLs. Quite a few of available ones are already described Materials science has applied the techniques of combinatorial chemistry to the discovery of new materials. This work was...
167. ...mbinatorial chemistry has been an essential part of early drug discovery for more than two decades, so far only one de novo combinatorial chemistry-synthesized chemical has been approved for clinical **use** by FDA (sorafenib, a multikinase inhibitor indicated for advanced renal cancer). The analysis of the poor success rate of the approach has been suggested to connect with the rather limited chemical s...
168. ...bong may be constructed from any air- and water-tight vessel by adding a bowl and stem apparatus (or slide) which guides air downward to below water level whence it bubbles upward ("bubbler") during **use**. To get fresh air into the bong and harvest the last remaining smoke, a hole known as the "carburetor", "carb", "choke", "bink", "rush", "shotty", "kick hole", or simply "hole", somewhere on the lowe...
169. ...pened to allow the smoke to be drawn into the respiratory system. On bongs without such a hole, the bowl and/or the stem are removed to allow air from the hole that holds the stem. Bongs have been in **use** by the Hmong in Laos and Thailand, as well all over Africa, for centuries. One of the earliest recorded uses of the word in the West is in the McFarland Thai-English Dictionary, published in 1944, wh...
170. ...e compared to those of a laboratory gas washing bottle. The user puts their mouth at the top and places the cannabis in the tube, as shown in the picture. Bongs are often either glass or plastic that **use** a bowl, stem, and water to produce smoke. Most glass bongs are made from heat resistant borosilicate glass, allowing the bong to withstand repeated use and heat exposure without breaking. After the b...
171. ...e. Bongs are often either glass or plastic that use a bowl, stem, and water to produce smoke. Most glass bongs are made from heat resistant borosilicate glass, allowing the bong to withstand repeated **use** and heat exposure without breaking. After the bowl has been packed and water has been inserted into the bong, the substance is lit and the smoke is drawn through water to produce a smoother smoke tha...
172. ...ransport through the mail, transport across state lines, import, or export drug paraphernalia. In countries where marijuana and hashish are illegal, some retailers specify that bongs are intended for **use** with tobacco in an attempt to circumvent laws against selling drug paraphernalia. While technically "bong" does not mean a device used for smoking mainly cannabis, drug-related connotations have been...
173. ...cannabis, drug-related connotations have been formed with the word itself (partly due to punning with Sanskrit "bhangah" "hemp"). Thus for fear of the law many head shops will not serve customers who **use** the word "bong" or "bongs", or any other word typically associated with illegal drug use. Some brand name bong manufacturers (notably RooR) have sought to curb the counterfeit market for their produc...
174. ...punning with Sanskrit "bhangah" "hemp"). Thus for fear of the law many head shops will not serve customers who use the word "bong" or "bongs", or any other word typically associated with illegal drug **use**. Some brand name bong manufacturers (notably RooR) have sought to curb the counterfeit market for their products by suing stores accused of selling fake merchandise. Gel A gel is a semi-solid that ca...
175. ...on self-assembly of the structurant molecules. (An example of formation of an undesired thermoreversible network is the occurrence of wax crystallization in petroleum.) Organogels have potential for **use** in a number of applications, such as in pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, art conservation, and food. A xerogel is a solid formed from a gel by drying with unhindered shrinkage. Xerogels usually retain hig...
176. ...Substitution of formula_36 leads to Note that the second term is independent of the stretching factors formula_6, formula_7 and formula_8 and hence can be dropped in subsequent analysis. Now we make **use** of the Flory-Huggins free energy for a polymer-solvent solution that reads where formula_42 is monomer volume, formula_1 is polymer strand length and formula_44 is the Flory-Huggins energy parameter....
177. ...tically derived tissue replacement technologies derived from hydrogels, for both temporary implants (degradable) and permanent implants (non-degradable). A review article on the subject discusses the **use** of hydrogels for nucleus pulposus replacement, cartilage replacement, and synthetic tissue models. Many substances can form gels when a suitable thickener or gelling agent is added to their formula....
178. ...dish-brown in color and extremely bitter, laudanum contains several opium alkaloids, including morphine and codeine. Laudanum was historically used to treat a variety of conditions, but its principal **use** was as a pain medication and cough suppressant. Until the early 20th century, laudanum was sold without a prescription and was a constituent of many patent medicines. Laudanum has since been recogniz...
179. ...of Paracelsus. In 1676 Sydenham published a seminal work, "Medical Observations Concerning the History and Cure of Acute Diseases", in which he promoted his brand of opium tincture, and advocated its **use** for a range of medical conditions. By the 18th century, the medicinal properties of opium and laudanum were well known, and the term "laudanum" came to refer to any combination of opium and alcohol....
180. ...3)." Young, an Edinburgh surgeon and physician, wrote this to counter an essay on opium by his contemporary Charles Alston, professor of botany and materia medica at Edinburgh who had recommended the **use** of opium for a wide variety of conditions. Young countered this by emphasising the risks "'...that I may prevent such mischief as I can, I here give it as my sincere opinion... that opium is a poison...
181. ...rable Victorian women were prescribed the drug for relief of menstrual cramps and vague aches. Nurses also spoon-fed laudanum to infants. The Romantic and Victorian eras were marked by the widespread **use** of laudanum in Europe and the United States. Mary Lincoln, for example, the wife of the US president Abraham Lincoln, was a laudanum addict, as was the English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge, who was f...
182. ...material to a local pharmacist who prepared laudanum. Laudanum was used in home remedies and prescriptions, as well as a single medication. For example, a 1901 medical book published for home health **use** gave the following two "Simple Remedy Formulas" for "dysenterry": (1) Thin boiled starch, 2 ounces; Laudanum, 20 drops; "Use as an injection [meaning as an enema] every six to twelve hours"; (2) Tinc...
183. ...gle medication. For example, a 1901 medical book published for home health use gave the following two "Simple Remedy Formulas" for "dysenterry": (1) Thin boiled starch, 2 ounces; Laudanum, 20 drops; "**Use** as an injection [meaning as an enema] every six to twelve hours"; (2) Tincture rhubarb, 1 ounce; Laudanum 4 drachms; "Dose: One teaspoonful every three hours." In a section entitled "Professional Pre...
184. ...d "designed for the extemporaneous preparation of the tincture". The catalog also noted: "For quarter-pint bottles add 80c. per pint to the price given for pints." Toward the middle 20th century, the **use** of opiates was generally limited to the treatment of pain, and opium was no longer a medically accepted 'cure-all'. Further, the pharmaceutical industry began synthesizing various opioids, such as pr...
185. ...Controlled Substances Act, which regulated opium tincture (Laudanum) as a Schedule II substance (currently DEA #9630), placing even tighter controls on the drug. By the late 20th century, laudanum's **use** was almost exclusively confined to treating severe diarrhea. The current prescribing information for laudanum in the US states that opium tincture's sole indication is as an anti-diarrheal, although...
186. ...ntil it is dissolved; then pour it into the bottle, and with alcohol of 70 percent proof pt., rinse the dish, adding the alcohol to the preparation, shaking well, and in 24 hours it will be ready for **use**. Dose—From 10 to 30 drops for adults, according to the strength of the patient, or severity of the pain. Thirty drops of this laudanum will be equal to one grain of opium. And this is a much better w...
187. ...dose can result in severe respiratory depression or collapse and death. The ethanol component can also induce adverse effects at higher doses; the side effects are the same as with alcohol. Long-term **use** of laudanum in nonterminal diseases is discouraged due to the possibility of drug tolerance and addiction. Long-term use can also lead to abnormal liver function tests; specifically, prolonged morphi...
188. ...ects at higher doses; the side effects are the same as with alcohol. Long-term use of laudanum in nonterminal diseases is discouraged due to the possibility of drug tolerance and addiction. Long-term **use** can also lead to abnormal liver function tests; specifically, prolonged morphine use can increase ALT and AST blood serum levels. Life-threatening overdose of opium tincture owes to the preparation's...
189. ...laudanum in nonterminal diseases is discouraged due to the possibility of drug tolerance and addiction. Long-term use can also lead to abnormal liver function tests; specifically, prolonged morphine **use** can increase ALT and AST blood serum levels. Life-threatening overdose of opium tincture owes to the preparation's morphine content. Morphine produces a dose-dependent depressive effect on the respir...
190. ...d. The primary concern is re-establishing a viable airway and institution of assisted or controlled ventilation if the patient is unable to breathe on their own. Other supportive measures such as the **use** of vasopressors and oxygen may be indicated to treat cardiac and/or pulmonary failure. Cardiac arrhythmias or arrest will require advanced life-saving measures. Intravenous naloxone or nalmefene, qui...
191. ...travenous naloxone or nalmefene, quick-acting opioid antagonists, are the first-line treatment to reverse respiratory depression caused by an overdose of opium tincture. Gastric lavage may be of some **use** in certain cases. Psychopharmacology Psychopharmacology (from Greek ; ; and ) is the scientific study of the effects drugs have on mood, sensation, thinking, behavior, judgment and evaluation, and me...
192. ...ferences. These substances are naturally occurring, but nonetheless psychoactive, and are compounds identified through the work of ethnobotanists and ethnomycologists (and others who study the native **use** of naturally occurring psychoactive drugs). However, although these substances have been used throughout history by various cultures, and have a profound effect on mentality and brain function, they...
193. ...h as psilocybin and mescaline, have provided a basis of study for the compounds that are used and examined in the field today. Hunter-gatherer societies tended to favor hallucinogens, and today their **use** can still be observed in many surviving tribal cultures. The exact drug used depends on what the particular ecosystem a given tribe lives in can support, and are typically found growing wild. Such dr...
194. ...or muscimol and cacti containing mescaline and other chemicals, along with myriad other plants containing psychoactive chemicals. These societies generally attach spiritual significance to such drug **use**, and often incorporate it into their religious practices. With the dawn of the Neolithic and the proliferation of agriculture, new psychoactives came into use as a natural by-product of farming. Amon...
195. ...tach spiritual significance to such drug use, and often incorporate it into their religious practices. With the dawn of the Neolithic and the proliferation of agriculture, new psychoactives came into **use** as a natural by-product of farming. Among them were opium, cannabis, and alcohol derived from the fermentation of cereals and fruits. Most societies began developing herblores, lists of herbs which w...
196. ...erblores, lists of herbs which were good for treating various physical and mental ailments. For example, St. John's wort was traditionally prescribed in parts of Europe for depression (in addition to **use** as a general-purpose tea), and Chinese medicine developed elaborate lists of herbs and preparations. These and various other substances that have an effect on the brain are still used as remedies in...
197. ...preparations. These and various other substances that have an effect on the brain are still used as remedies in many cultures. The dawn of contemporary psychopharmacology marked the beginning of the **use** of psychiatric drugs to treat psychological illnesses. It brought with it the use of opiates and barbiturates for the management of acute behavioral issues in patients. In the early stages, psychopha...
198. ...are still used as remedies in many cultures. The dawn of contemporary psychopharmacology marked the beginning of the use of psychiatric drugs to treat psychological illnesses. It brought with it the **use** of opiates and barbiturates for the management of acute behavioral issues in patients. In the early stages, psychopharmacology was primarily used for sedation. With the 1950s came the establishment o...
199. ...ts of psychotropic agents on brain chemistry. After the 1960s, the field of psychiatry shifted to incorporate the indications for and efficacy of pharmacological treatments, and began to focus on the **use** and toxicities of these medications. The 1970s and 1980s were further marked by a better understanding of the synaptic aspects of the action mechanisms of drugs. However, the model has its critics, t...
200. ...e memories. One such neurological condition is called Korsakoff's syndrome, for which very few effective treatment modalities have been found. The reinforcing qualities of alcohol leading to repeated **use** – and thus also the mechanisms of withdrawal from chronic alcohol use – are partially due to the substance's action on the dopamine system. This is also due to alcohol's effect on the opioid systems,...
201. ...rome, for which very few effective treatment modalities have been found. The reinforcing qualities of alcohol leading to repeated use – and thus also the mechanisms of withdrawal from chronic alcohol **use** – are partially due to the substance's action on the dopamine system. This is also due to alcohol's effect on the opioid systems, or endorphins, that have opiate-like effects, such as modulating pain...
202. ...nforcement, and response to stress. Antidepressants reduce symptoms of mood disorders primarily through the regulation of norepinephrine and serotonin (particularly the 5-HT receptors). After chronic **use**, neurons adapt to the change in biochemistry, resulting in a change in pre- and postsynaptic receptor density and second messenger function. The Monoamine Theory of Depression and Anxiety, which stat...
203. ...eir action is primarily on specific benzodiazepine sites on the GABA receptor. This receptor complex is thought to mediate the anxiolytic, sedative, and anticonvulsant actions of the benzodiazepines. **Use** of benzodiazepines carries the risk of tolerance (necessitating increased dosage), dependence, and abuse. Taking these drugs for a long period of time can lead to severe withdrawal symptoms upon abru...
204. ...sts that this state could be beneficial to the treatment of some mental illnesses, such as depression and possibly addiction. In instances where some patients have seen a lack of improvement from the **use** of antidepressants, serotonergic hallucinogens have been observed to be rather effective in treatment. In addition to the sensory-perceptual effects, hallucinogenic substances may induce feelings of...
205. ...s, as well as its interaction with mTOR, which is an enzymatic protein involved in catabolic processes in the human body. Phencyclidine's biochemical properties are still mostly unknown; however, its **use** has been associated with dissociation, hallucinations, and in some cases seizures and death. "Salvia divinorum", a plant native to Mexico, has strong dissociative and hallucinogenic properties when t...
206. ...etimes preferred. They are used for their action on melatonin receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, responsible for sleep-wake cycles. Many barbiturates have or had an FDA-approved indication for **use** as sedative-hypnotics, but have become less widely used because of their limited safety margin in overdose, their potential for dependence, and the degree of central nervous system depression they in...
207. ...bens. Opioids are more likely to produce physical dependence worse than that of other classes of psychoactive drugs, and can lead to painful withdrawal symptoms if discontinued abruptly after regular **use**. Cocaine is one of the more common stimulants and is a complex drug that interacts with various neurotransmitter systems. It commonly causes heightened alertness, increased confidence, feelings of ex...
208. ...fatigue, and a generalized sense of well-being. The effects of cocaine are similar to those of amphetamines, though cocaine tends to have a shorter duration of effect. In high doses or with prolonged **use**, cocaine can result in a number of negative effects, including irritability, anxiety, exhaustion, total insomnia, and even psychotic symptomatology. Most of the behavioral and physiological actions o...
209. ...itially thought to be safe in pregnancy, concerns regarding birth defects arose, resulting in its removal from the market in Europe in 1961. The total number of infants severely harmed by thalidomide **use** during pregnancy is estimated at over 10,000, possibly 20,000, of whom about 40% died around the time of birth. Those who survived had limb, eye, urinary tract, and heart problems. Its initial entry...
210. ...ey, a reviewer at the FDA. The birth defects caused by thalidomide led to the development of greater drug regulation and monitoring in many countries. It was approved in the United States in 1998 for **use** as a treatment for cancer. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is available as a generic medication. Thalidomide is used as a first-line treatment for multiple my...
211. ...aft-versus-host-disease in adults because of lack of efficacy and side effects observed in clinical trials. Prescriptions of thalidomide are accompanied by strict measures to avoid any possibility of **use** during pregnancy, and thalidomide should be avoided in women wanting to conceive. In the United States, the prescribing doctor is required to ensure that contraception is being used, and that regular...
212. ...traceptives or other cytotoxic agents (including doxorubicin and melphalan) concurrently. Thalidomide may interfere with various contraceptives, and hence it is advised that women of reproductive age **use** at least two different means of contraception to ensure that no child will be conceived while they are taking thalidomide. As of 2013, eighteen cases of overdoses had been reported with doses of up t...
213. ...molecule is called chiral inversion. Celgene Corporation originally synthesized thalidomide using a three-step sequence starting with -glutamic acid treatment, but this has since been reformed by the **use** of -glutamine. As shown in the image below, "N"-carbethoxyphthalimide (1) can react with -glutamine to yield "N"-phthaloyl--glutamine (2). Cyclization of "N"-phthaloyl--glutamine occurs using carbony...
214. ...ober 1957, the company launched thalidomide and began marketing it under the trade name Contergan. It was proclaimed a "wonder drug" for insomnia, coughs, colds and headaches. During that period, the **use** of medications during pregnancy was not strictly controlled, and drugs were not thoroughly tested for potential harm to the fetus. Thousands of pregnant women took the drug to relieve their symptoms....
215. ...ly ill with leprosy. The patient exhibited erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL), a painful skin condition, one of the complications of leprosy. The treatment was attempted despite the ban on thalidomide's **use**, and results were favourable: the patient slept for hours and was able to get out of bed without aid upon awakening. A clinical trial studying the use of thalidomide in leprosy soon followed. Thalido...
216. ...t was attempted despite the ban on thalidomide's use, and results were favourable: the patient slept for hours and was able to get out of bed without aid upon awakening. A clinical trial studying the **use** of thalidomide in leprosy soon followed. Thalidomide has been used by Brazilian physicians as the drug of choice for the treatment of severe ENL since 1965, and by 1996, at least 33 cases of thalidom...
217. ...of thalidomide embryopathy were recorded in people born in Brazil after 1965. Since 1994, the production, dispensing, and prescription of thalidomide have been strictly controlled, requiring women to **use** two forms of birth control and submit to regular pregnancy tests. Despite this, cases of thalidomide embryopathy continue, with at least 100 cases identified in Brazil between 2005 and 2010. 5.8 mill...
218. ...d throughout Brazil in this time period, largely to poor Brazilians in areas with little access to healthcare, and these cases have occurred despite the controls. In 1998, the FDA approved the drug's **use** in the treatment of ENL. Because of thalidomide's potential for causing birth defects, the drug may be distributed only under tightly controlled conditions. The FDA required that Celgene Corporation,...
219. ...riodic pregnancy tests for women who take the drug. In 2010, the World Health Organization stated that it did not recommend thalidomide for leprosy due to the difficulty of adequately controlling its **use**, and due to the availability of clofazimine. Shortly after the teratogenic properties of thalidomide were recognized in the mid-1960s, its anti-cancer potential was explored and two clinical trials w...
220. ...ts in an increase of the overall survival. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, more than 10,000 children in 46 countries were born with deformities, such as phocomelia, as a consequence of thalidomide **use**. The severity and location of the deformities depended on how many days into the pregnancy the mother was before beginning treatment, with the time-sensitive window occurring approximately between da...
221. ...ppression. In 2005, Celgene received FDA approval for lenalidomide (Revlimid) as the first commercially useful derivative. Revlimid is available only in a restricted distribution setting to avoid its **use** during pregnancy. Further studies are being conducted to find safer compounds with useful qualities. Another more potent analog, pomalidomide, is now FDA approved. Additionally, apremilast was approv...
222. ...one of the key reasons why many countries moved towards deinstitutionalization, closing many of these hospitals so that patients could be treated at home, in general hospitals and smaller facilities. **Use** of physical restraints such as straitjackets also declined. As of 2013, the 10 most prescribed psychiatric drugs by number of prescriptions were alprazolam, sertraline, citalopram, fluoxetine, loraze...
223. ...ued too rapidly. While clinical trials of psychiatric medications, like other medications, typically test medicines separately, there is a practice in psychiatry (more so than in somatic medicine) to **use** polypharmacy in combinations of medicines that have never been tested together in clinical trials (though all medicines involved have passed clinical trials separately). It is argued that this presen...
224. ...iginally thought to be non-addictive at therapeutic doses, but are now known to cause withdrawal symptoms similar to barbiturates and alcohol. Benzodiazepines are generally recommended for short-term **use**. Z-drugs are a group of drugs with effects generally similar to benzodiazepines, which are used in the treatment of insomnia. Common benzodiazepines and z-drugs include: In 1949, the Australian John...
225. ...rding to physical form and how they were generated, include dust, fume, mist, smoke and fog.  There are several measures of aerosol concentration. Environmental science and environmental health often **use** the "mass concentration" ("M"), defined as the mass of particulate matter per unit volume, in units such as μg/m. Also commonly used is the "number concentration" ("N"), the number of particles per u...
226. ...contains particles of uniform size. Most aerosols, however, as "polydisperse" colloidal systems, exhibit a range of particle sizes. Liquid droplets are almost always nearly spherical, but scientists **use** an "equivalent diameter" to characterize the properties of various shapes of solid particles, some very irregular. The equivalent diameter is the diameter of a spherical particle with the same value...
227. ...efining the particle size distribution uses a list of the sizes of every particle in a sample. However, this approach proves tedious to ascertain in aerosols with millions of particles and awkward to **use**. Another approach splits the size range into intervals and finds the number (or proportion) of particles in each interval. These data can be presented in a histogram with the area of each bar represe...
228. ...mic diameter: One can apply the aerodynamic diameter to particulate pollutants or to inhaled drugs to predict where in the respiratory tract such particles deposit. Pharmaceutical companies typically **use** aerodynamic diameter, not geometric diameter, to characterize particles in inhalable drugs.  The previous discussion focused on single aerosol particles. In contrast, "aerosol dynamics" explains the...
229. ...ctor is used with a sampling filter. The pre-collector excludes particles as the airways remove particles from inhaled air. The sampling filter collects the particles for measurement. It is common to **use** cyclonic separation for the pre-collector, but other techniques include impactors, horizontal elutriators, and large pore membrane filters. Two alternative size-selective criteria, often used in atmo...
230. ...stimulants can produce a range of effects, from mild stimulation to euphoria, depending on the specific drug, dose, route of administration, and individual factors.  Stimulants have a long history of **use**, both for medical and non-medical purposes. They have been used to treat various conditions, such as narcolepsy, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), obesity, depression, and fatigue. The...
231. ...a, cardiovascular problems, and neurotoxicity. The misuse and abuse of stimulants can lead to serious health and social consequences, such as overdose, dependence, crime, and violence. Therefore, the **use** of stimulants is regulated by laws and policies in most countries, and requires medical supervision and prescription in some cases. A "stimulant" is an overarching term that covers many drugs includi...
232. ...g effects of stimulants, specifically modafinil, amphetamine and methylphenidate have been reported in healthy adolescents by some studies, and is a commonly cited reason among illicit drug users for **use**, particularly among college students in the context of studying. Still, results of these studies is inconclusive: assessing the potential overall neurocognitive benefits of stimulants among healthy y...
233. ...pulation currently taking stimulants. A systematic review of cardiovascular effects of prescription stimulants found no association in children, but found a correlation between prescription stimulant **use** and ischemic heart attacks. A review over a four-year period found that there were few negative effects of stimulant treatment, but stressed the need for longer-term studies. A review of a year long...
234. ...view over a four-year period found that there were few negative effects of stimulant treatment, but stressed the need for longer-term studies. A review of a year long period of prescription stimulant **use** in those with ADHD found that cardiovascular side effects were limited to transient increases in blood pressure only. However, a 2024 systematic review of the evidence found that stimulants overall i...
235. ...buse of cocaine, depending upon route of administration, increases risk of cardiorespiratory disease, stroke, and sepsis. Some effects are dependent upon the route of administration, with intravenous **use** associated with the transmission of many disease such as Hepatitis C, HIV/AIDS and potential medical emergencies such as infection, thrombosis or pseudoaneurysm, while inhalation may be associated wi...
236. ...d for their therapeutic effects. Physicians sometimes prescribe amphetamine to treat major depression, where subjects do not respond well to traditional SSRI medications, but evidence supporting this **use** is poor/mixed. Notably, two recent large phase III studies of lisdexamfetamine (a prodrug to amphetamine) as an adjunct to an SSRI or SNRI in the treatment of major depressive disorder showed no furt...
237. ...rescription medication in many countries, unauthorized possession and distribution of amphetamine is often tightly controlled due to the significant health risks associated with uncontrolled or heavy **use**. As a consequence, amphetamine is illegally manufactured in clandestine labs to be trafficked and sold to users. Based upon drug and drug precursor seizures worldwide, illicit amphetamine production...
238. ...mpair cognitive function and induce rapid muscle breakdown. Very high doses can result in psychosis (e.g., delusions and paranoia), which very rarely occurs at therapeutic doses even during long-term **use**. As recreational doses are generally much larger than prescribed therapeutic doses, recreational use carries a far greater risk of serious side effects, such as dependence, which only rarely arises w...
239. ...e.g., delusions and paranoia), which very rarely occurs at therapeutic doses even during long-term use. As recreational doses are generally much larger than prescribed therapeutic doses, recreational **use** carries a far greater risk of serious side effects, such as dependence, which only rarely arises with therapeutic amphetamine use. Caffeine is a stimulant compound belonging to the xanthine class of...
240. ...generally much larger than prescribed therapeutic doses, recreational use carries a far greater risk of serious side effects, such as dependence, which only rarely arises with therapeutic amphetamine **use**. Caffeine is a stimulant compound belonging to the xanthine class of chemicals naturally found in coffee, tea, and (to a lesser degree) cocoa or chocolate. It is included in many soft drinks, as well...
241. ...nks. Caffeine is the world's most widely used psychoactive drug and by far the most common stimulant. In North America, 90% of adults consume caffeine daily. A few jurisdictions restrict the sale and **use** of caffeine. In the United States, the FDA has banned the sale of pure and highly concentrated caffeine products for personal consumption, due to the risk of overdose and death. The Australian Govern...
242. ...onal drugs in gas stations and convenience stores in the United States, similar to the marketing for Spice and K2 as incense. Incidents of psychological and physical harm have been attributed to MDPV **use**. Mephedrone is a synthetic stimulant drug of the amphetamine and cathinone classes. Slang names include drone and MCAT. It is reported to be manufactured in China and is chemically similar to the cat...
243. ...rgy in fatigued individuals. At higher doses, it can induce psychosis, rhabdomyolysis, and cerebral hemorrhage. Methamphetamine is known to have a high potential for abuse and addiction. Recreational **use** of methamphetamine may result in psychosis or lead to post-withdrawal syndrome, a withdrawal syndrome that can persist for months beyond the typical withdrawal period. Unlike amphetamine and cocaine,...
244. ...ical withdrawal period. Unlike amphetamine and cocaine, methamphetamine is neurotoxic to humans, damaging both dopamine and serotonin neurons in the central nervous system (CNS). Unlike the long-term **use** of amphetamine in prescription doses, which may improve certain brain regions in individuals with ADHD, there is evidence that methamphetamine causes brain damage from long-term use in humans; this d...
245. ...ike the long-term use of amphetamine in prescription doses, which may improve certain brain regions in individuals with ADHD, there is evidence that methamphetamine causes brain damage from long-term **use** in humans; this damage includes adverse changes in brain structure and function, such as reductions in gray matter volume in several brain regions and adverse changes in markers of metabolic integrit...
246. ...s of Asia, the most common form of cocaine is a white crystalline powder. Cocaine is a stimulant but is not normally prescribed therapeutically for its stimulant properties, although it sees clinical **use** as a local anesthetic, in particular in ophthalmology. Most cocaine use is recreational and its abuse potential is high (higher than amphetamine), and so its sale and possession are strictly controll...
247. .... Cocaine is a stimulant but is not normally prescribed therapeutically for its stimulant properties, although it sees clinical use as a local anesthetic, in particular in ophthalmology. Most cocaine **use** is recreational and its abuse potential is high (higher than amphetamine), and so its sale and possession are strictly controlled in most jurisdictions. Other tropane derivative drugs related to coca...
248. ...r women. In a few countries in Europe, however, it is still available either by prescription or sometimes over-the-counter. In Canada, it was withdrawn from the market on 31 May 2001. In India, human **use** of PPA and its formulations were banned on 10 February 2011. Lisdexamfetamine (Vyvanse, etc.) is an amphetamine-type medication, sold for use in treating ADHD. Its effects typically last around 14 ho...
249. ...withdrawn from the market on 31 May 2001. In India, human use of PPA and its formulations were banned on 10 February 2011. Lisdexamfetamine (Vyvanse, etc.) is an amphetamine-type medication, sold for **use** in treating ADHD. Its effects typically last around 14 hours. Lisdexamfetamine is inactive on its own and is metabolized into dextroamphetamine in the body. Consequently, it has a lower abuse potenti...
250. ...der the brand name Provigil among others. Modafinil is used to treat excessive daytime sleepiness due to narcolepsy, shift work sleep disorder, or obstructive sleep apnea. While it has seen off-label **use** as a purported cognitive enhancer, the research on its effectiveness for this use is not conclusive. Despite being a CNS stimulant, the addiction and dependence liabilities of modafinil are considere...
251. ...time sleepiness due to narcolepsy, shift work sleep disorder, or obstructive sleep apnea. While it has seen off-label use as a purported cognitive enhancer, the research on its effectiveness for this **use** is not conclusive. Despite being a CNS stimulant, the addiction and dependence liabilities of modafinil are considered very low. Although modafinil shares biochemical mechanisms with stimulant drugs,...
252. ...ive feeling of pleasure or reward, which is commonly associated with euphoria, an intense feeling of well-being. Euphoria is a potential indicator of drug abuse, which is the compulsive and excessive **use** of a substance despite adverse consequences. In clinical trials, modafinil has shown no evidence of abuse potential, that is why modafinil is considered to have a low risk of addiction and dependence...
253. ...ects may include increased alertness, awareness, wakefulness, endurance, productivity, and motivation, arousal, locomotion, heart rate, and blood pressure, and a diminished desire for food and sleep. **Use** of stimulants may cause the body to reduce significantly its production of natural body chemicals that fulfill similar functions. Until the body reestablishes its normal state, once the effect of the...
254. ...effect. Substances that inhibit effects that aphrodisiacs aim to enhance are called anaphrodisiacs, which have the opposite effects on libido. Both males and females can potentially benefit from the **use** of aphrodisiacs, but they are more focused on males, as their properties tend to increase testosterone concentrations rather than estrogen concentrations. This is in part due to the historical contex...
255. ...hormones have been proposed as aphrodisiacs, there is little high-quality clinical evidence of their efficacy or long-term safety. There has been increasing attention in recent years surrounding the **use** of aphrodisiac drugs. In 2020, Brian Earp and Julian Savulescu published a philosophy book entitled "Love Drugs: The Chemical Future of Relationships" (UK title "Love Is the Drug: The Chemical Future...
256. ...at weed contains icariin, a flavanol glycoside. Its exotic name comes from the tendency of goats in the region to seek out this weed. Once farmers saw its effects on the goat population they began to **use** it to increase the number of workers on their farms. Alcohol has been associated as an aphrodisiac, owing to its effect as a central nervous system depressant. Depressants can increase sexual desire...
257. ...ause frequent or prolonged erections as potential adverse effects, particularly in supratherapeutic doses, when sexual hyperexcitability and hypersexuality can occur; however, in some individuals who **use** these drugs, libido is reduced. 2C-B was sold commercially in 5 mg pills as a purported aphrodisiac under the trade name "Erox", which was manufactured by the German pharmaceutical company Drittewell...
258. ...ations. The potassium antimonyl derivative of the acid known as tartar emetic is included, in small doses, in cough syrup as an expectorant. Tartaric acid also has several applications for industrial **use**. The acid has been observed to chelate metal ions such as calcium and magnesium. Therefore, the acid has served in the farming and metal industries as a chelating agent for complexing micronutrients...
259. ...identified, or a groove to allow splitting by hand. Sizes of tablets to be swallowed range from a few millimetres to about a centimetre. The compressed tablet is the most commonly seen dosage form in **use** today. About two-thirds of all prescriptions are dispensed as solid dosage forms, and half of these are compressed tablets. A tablet can be formulated to deliver an accurate dosage to a specific site...
260. ...r William Brockedon was granted a patent for a machine capable of "Shaping Pills, Lozenges, and Black Lead by Pressure in Dies". The device was capable of compressing powder into a tablet without the **use** of an adhesive. A pill was originally defined as a small, round, solid pharmaceutical oral dosage form of medication. The word's etymology reflects the historical concepts of grinding the ingredients...
261. ...le. Aqueous solutions have the advantage of being safer to deal with than solvent-based systems but may not be suitable for drugs which are degraded by hydrolysis. Low shear wet granulation processes **use** very simple mixing equipment, and can take a considerable time to achieve a uniformly mixed state. High shear wet granulation processes use equipment that mixes the powder and liquid at a very fast r...
262. ...degraded by hydrolysis. Low shear wet granulation processes use very simple mixing equipment, and can take a considerable time to achieve a uniformly mixed state. High shear wet granulation processes **use** equipment that mixes the powder and liquid at a very fast rate, and thus speeds up the manufacturing process. Fluid bed granulation is a multiple-step wet granulation process performed in the same ve...
263. ...there are devices called pill-splitters which cut unscored and scored tablets. Tablets with special coatings (for example, enteric coatings or controlled-release coatings) should not be broken before **use**, as this exposes the tablet core to the digestive juices, circumventing the intended delayed-release effect. Enema An enema, also known as a clyster, is an injection of fluid into the lower bowel by...
264. ...routine. Its effectiveness varies considerably, some individuals experiencing complete control of incontinence but others reporting little or no benefit. An international consensus on when and how to **use** transanal irrigation for people with bowel problems was published in 2013, offering practitioners a clear, comprehensive and simple guide to practice for the emerging therapeutic area of transanal ir...
265. ...imal to the anus via a surgically created irrigation port. Patients who have a bowel disability, a medical condition which impairs control of defecation, e.g., fecal incontinence or constipation, can **use** bowel management techniques to choose a predictable time and place to evacuate. Without bowel management, such persons might either suffer from the feeling of not getting relief, or they might soil t...
266. ...may not always be visible, but can be distinguished if the feces are unusually dark or have a red hue. If intestinal rupture is suspected, medical assistance should be obtained immediately. Frequent **use** of enemas can cause laxative dependency. The enema tube and solution may stimulate the vagus nerve, which may trigger an arrhythmia such as bradycardia. Enemas should not be used if there is an undia...
267. ...ich, injected by syringes made of gourd and clay, ritual hallucinogenic enemas were taken. In the Xibalban court of the God D, whose worship included ritual cult paraphernal, the Maya illustrated the **use** of a characteristic enema bulb syringe by female attendants administering clysters ritually. For combating illness and discomfort of the digestive tract, the Mayan also employed enemas, as documented...
268. ...nous peoples of North America employed tobacco smoke enemas to stimulate respiration, injecting the smoke using a rectal tube. A rubber bag connected with a conical nozzle, at an early period, was in **use** among the indigenous peoples of South America as an enema syringe, and the rubber enema bag with a connecting tube and ivory tip remained in use by them while in Europe a syringe was still the usual...
269. ...cted with a conical nozzle, at an early period, was in use among the indigenous peoples of South America as an enema syringe, and the rubber enema bag with a connecting tube and ivory tip remained in **use** by them while in Europe a syringe was still the usual means for conducting an enema. In Babylonia, by 600 BCE, enemas were in use, although it appears that initially they were in use because of a bel...
270. ...the rubber enema bag with a connecting tube and ivory tip remained in use by them while in Europe a syringe was still the usual means for conducting an enema. In Babylonia, by 600 BCE, enemas were in **use**, although it appears that initially they were in use because of a belief that the demon of disease would, by means of an enema, be driven out of the body. Babylonian and Assyrian tablets c. 600 BCE b...
271. ...tip remained in use by them while in Europe a syringe was still the usual means for conducting an enema. In Babylonia, by 600 BCE, enemas were in use, although it appears that initially they were in **use** because of a belief that the demon of disease would, by means of an enema, be driven out of the body. Babylonian and Assyrian tablets c. 600 BCE bear cuneiform inscriptions referring to enemas. In Ch...
272. ...ar the first illustrations of enema equipment in the Western world, a clyster syringe consisting of a tube attached to a pump action bulb made of a pig bladder. A simple piston syringe clyster was in **use** from the 15th through 19th centuries. This device had its rectal nozzle connected to a syringe with a plunger rather than to a bulb. Beginning in the 17th century enema apparatus was chiefly designed...
273. ...pig's or beef's bladder attached to a tube was described by Johann Jacob Woyts as an alternative to a syringe. In the 18th century Europeans began emulating the indigenous peoples of North America's **use** of tobacco smoke enemas to resuscitate drowned people. Tobacco resuscitation kits consisting of a pair of bellows and a tube were provided by the Royal Humane Society of London and placed at various...
274. ...devised. Devices allowing gravity to infuse the solution, like those mentioned above used by South American indigenous people and like the enema bag described by Johann Jacob Woyts, came into common **use**. These consist of a nozzle at the end of a hose which connects a reservoir, either a bucket or a rubber bag, which is filled with liquid and held or hung above the recipient. In the early 20th centur...
275. ...purpose of general well-being and has taken action against many distributors of this equipment, including a Warning Letter. The same term is also used in alternative medicine where it may involve the **use** of substances mixed with water in order to detoxify the body. Practitioners believe the accumulation of fecal matter in the large intestine leads to ill health. This resurrects the old medical concep...
276. ...hese enemas results in the expulsion of parasitic worms ("rope worms"), which actually are fragments of damaged intestinal epithelium that are misinterpreted as being human pathogens. Oral and rectal **use** of the solution has also been promoted as a cure for HIV, malaria, viral hepatitis, influenza, common colds, acne, cancer, Parkinson's, and much more. Chlorine dioxide is a potent and toxic bleach th...
277. ...e dioxide is a potent and toxic bleach that is relabeled for "medicinal purposes" to a variety of brand names including, but not limited, to MMS, Miracle Mineral Supplement, and CD protocol. For oral **use**, the doses recommended on the labeling can cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and potentially life-threatening dehydration. No clinical trials have been performed to test the health claims made for ch...
278. ...f enemas through fantasies, by actually receiving or giving one, or through the process of eliminating steps to being administered one (e.g., under the pretence of being constipated). That some women **use** enemas while masturbating was documented by Alfred Kinsey in "Sexual Behavior in the Human Female": "There were still other masturbatory techniques which were regularly or occasionally employed by so...
279. ...intrinsic enjoyment of enemas, there are other uses of enemas in sexual play. Enemas are sometimes used in sadomasochistic activities for erotic humiliation or for physical discomfort. Another sexual **use** for enemas is to empty the rectum as a prelude to other anal sexual activities such as anal sex, possibly reducing risk of infection. This is different from klismaphilia, in which the enema is enjoye...
280. ...n the brain involve going either "through" or "behind" the BBB. Modalities for drug delivery to the brain in unit doses through the BBB entail its disruption by osmotic means, or biochemically by the **use** of vasoactive substances, such as bradykinin, or even by localized exposure to high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU). Other methods used to get through the BBB may entail the use of endogenous tra...
281. ...chemically by the use of vasoactive substances, such as bradykinin, or even by localized exposure to high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU). Other methods used to get through the BBB may entail the **use** of endogenous transport systems, including carrier-mediated transporters, such as glucose and amino acid carriers, receptor-mediated transcytosis for insulin or transferrin, and the blocking of activ...
282. ...in via three pathways: (1) Olfactory nerve-olfactory bulb-brain; (2) Trigeminal nerve-brain; and (3) Lungs/ Gastrointestinal tract-blood–brain The first and second methods involve the nerves, so they **use** the neuronal pathway and the third is via systemic circulation. However, these methods are less efficient to deliver drugs as they are indirect methods. Nanotechnology is under preliminary research f...
283. ...anging the functioning of around 200 enzymes. Diagnosis is by testing the urine, blood, or hair. Prevention is by using water that does not contain high levels of arsenic. This may be achieved by the **use** of special filters or using rainwater. There is not good evidence to support specific treatments for long-term poisoning. For acute poisonings treating dehydration is important. Dimercaptosuccinic ac...
284. ...dustrial sites. Based on these data, the European Commission (2000) estimated that in relation to food, cigarette smoking, water, and soil, air contributes less than 1% of total arsenic exposure. The **use** of lead arsenate pesticides has been effectively eliminated for over 50 years. However, because of the pesticide's environmental persistence, it is estimated that millions of acres of land are still...
285. ...as of land used historically as orchards have been converted into residential developments. Some modern uses of arsenic-based pesticides still exist. Chromated copper arsenate has been registered for **use** in the United States since the 1940s as a wood preservative, protecting wood from insects and microbial agents. In 2003, manufacturers of chromated copper arsenate instituted a voluntary recall of re...
286. ...tituted a voluntary recall of residential uses of wood treated with the chemical. The Environmental Protection Agency Act 2008 final report stated that chromated copper arsenate is still approved for **use** in nonresidential applications, such as in marine facilities (pilings and structures), utility poles, and sand highway structures. Exposure studies in the copper smelting industry are much more exten...
287. ...which catalyzes the oxidation of pyruvate to acetyl-CoA by NAD. With the enzyme inhibited, the energy system of the cell is disrupted resulting in cellular apoptosis. Biochemically, arsenic prevents **use** of thiamine resulting in a clinical picture resembling thiamine deficiency. Poisoning with arsenic can raise lactate levels and lead to lactic acidosis. Low potassium levels in the cells increases th...
288. ...so an ingredient in many tonics (or "patent medicines"). In addition, during the Elizabethan era, some women used a mixture of vinegar, chalk, and arsenic applied topically to whiten their skin. This **use** of arsenic was intended to prevent aging and creasing of the skin, but some arsenic was inevitably absorbed into the blood stream. During the Victorian era (late 19th century) in the United States, U...
289. ...ich was common at the time, arsenic poisoning often went undetected. By the 19th century, it had acquired the nickname "inheritance powder", perhaps because impatient heirs were known or suspected to **use** it to ensure or accelerate their inheritances. It was also a common murder technique in the 19th century in domestic violence situations, such as the case of Rebecca Copin, who attempted to poison he...
290. ...and largely replaced soap for cleaning clothes in developed countries. Over the years, many types of detergents have been developed for a variety of purposes, for example, low-sudsing detergents for **use** in front-loading washing machines, heavy-duty detergents effective in removing grease and dirt, all-purpose detergents and specialty detergents. They become incorporated in various products outside o...
291. ...loading washing machines, heavy-duty detergents effective in removing grease and dirt, all-purpose detergents and specialty detergents. They become incorporated in various products outside of laundry **use**, for example in dishwasher detergents, shampoo, toothpaste, industrial cleaners, and in lubricants and fuels to reduce or prevent the formation of sludge or deposits. The formulation of detergent pro...
292. ...ial cleaners, and in lubricants and fuels to reduce or prevent the formation of sludge or deposits. The formulation of detergent products may include bleach, fragrances, dyes and other additives. The **use** of phosphates in detergent, however, led to concerns over nutrient pollution and demand for changes to the formulation of the detergents. Concerns were also raised over the use of surfactants such as...
293. ...d other additives. The use of phosphates in detergent, however, led to concerns over nutrient pollution and demand for changes to the formulation of the detergents. Concerns were also raised over the **use** of surfactants such as branched alkylbenzene sulfonate (tetrapropylenebenzene sulfonate) that lingers in the environment, which led to their replacement by surfactants that are more biodegradable, su...
294. ...onate) that lingers in the environment, which led to their replacement by surfactants that are more biodegradable, such as linear alkylbenzene sulfonate. Developments over the years have included the **use** of enzymes, substitutes for phosphates such as zeolite A and NTA, TAED as bleach activator, sugar-based surfactants which are biodegradable and milder to skin, and other green friendly products, as w...
295. ...rch 2024. It is a tradition that the colour of each new edition is radically different from the previous. The BNF is presently available as a book, a website, and mobile applications - the latter for **use** on smartphones and tablets. The book is available for purchase, and the September edition is distributed to healthcare professionals in the UK at no direct cost to them. NHS workers and healthcare pr...
296. ...net connection. NICE provides a website providing the content of the BNF to the public, including non-NHS users. The BNF also includes the Nurse Prescribers' Formulary (NPF) and other NPF content for **use** by District Nurses and Specialist Community Public Health Nurses (including Health Visitors), who have received training to become nurse prescribers. The "British National Formulary for Children" (BN...
297. ...nd oil to mix; they can form foam and facilitate the detachment of dirt.  Surfactants are among the most widespread and commercially important chemicals. Private households as well as many industries **use** them in large quantities as detergents and cleaning agents, but also for example as emulsifiers, wetting agents, foaming agents, antistatic additives, or dispersants.  Surfactants occur naturally in...
298. ...and the choice is primarily governed having regard to the costs of special properties (e.g., effectiveness and efficiency, toxicity, dermatological compatibility, biodegradability) or permission for **use** in food. Fatty acid ethoxylates are a class of very versatile surfactants, which combine in a single molecule the characteristic of a weakly anionic, pH-responsive head group with the presence of sta...
299. ...mains bound in the water phase. The hydrophobic tail may be either lipophilic ("oil-seeking") or lipophobic ("oil-avoiding") depending on its chemistry. Hydrocarbon groups are usually lipophilic, for **use** in soaps and detergents, while fluorocarbon groups are lipophobic, for use in repelling stains or reducing surface tension. World production of surfactants is estimated at 15 million tons per year, o...
300. ...ic ("oil-seeking") or lipophobic ("oil-avoiding") depending on its chemistry. Hydrocarbon groups are usually lipophilic, for use in soaps and detergents, while fluorocarbon groups are lipophobic, for **use** in repelling stains or reducing surface tension. World production of surfactants is estimated at 15 million tons per year, of which about half are soaps. Other surfactants produced on a particularly...
301. ...the displacement of air from the matrix of cotton pads and bandages so that medicinal solutions can be absorbed for application to various body areas. They also act to displace dirt and debris by the **use** of detergents in the washing of wounds and via the application of medicinal lotions and sprays to surface of skin and mucous membranes. Surfactants enhance remediation via soil washing, bioremediatio...
302. ...article size. Air is most commonly used as the heated drying medium; however, nitrogen may be used if the liquid is flammable (such as ethanol) or if the product is oxygen-sensitive. All spray dryers **use** some type of atomizer or spray nozzle to disperse the liquid or slurry into a controlled drop size spray. The most common of these are rotary disk and single-fluid high pressure swirl nozzles. Atomiz...
303. ...ng efficiency. Thermal degradation of products can be overcome by using lower operating temperatures and larger chamber sizes for increased residence times. Recent research is now suggesting that the **use** of spray-drying techniques may be an alternative method for crystallization of amorphous powders during the drying process since the temperature effects on the amorphous powders may be significant de...
304. ...tion and fluoride content, not all toothpastes are equally effective in maintaining oral health. The decline of tooth decay during the 20th century has been attributed to the introduction and regular **use** of fluoride-containing toothpastes worldwide. Large amounts of swallowed toothpaste can be poisonous. Common colors for toothpaste include white (sometimes with colored stripes or green tint) and blu...
305. ...twigs and "miswak". During Japan's Edo period, inventor Hiraga Gennai's "Hika rakuyo" (1769) contained advertisements for "Sosekiko", a "toothpaste in a box." Toothpastes or powders came into general **use** in the 19th century. Toothpastes are generally useful to maintain dental health. Toothpastes containing fluoride are effective at preventing tooth decay. Toothpastes may also help to control and remo...
306. ...that using toothpaste when brushing the teeth does not necessarily impact the level of plaque removal. However, the active ingredients in toothpastes are able to prevent dental diseases with regular **use**. Toothpastes are derived from a variety of components, the three main ones being abrasives, fluoride, and detergent. Abrasives constitute 8-20% of a typical toothpaste. These insoluble particles are...
307. ...CO), magnesium carbonate (MgCO), sodium bicarbonate, various calcium hydrogen phosphates, various silicas and zeolites, and hydroxyapatite (Ca(PO)OH). After the Microbead-Free Waters Act of 2015, the **use** of microbeads in toothpaste has been discontinued in the US, however since 2015 the industry has shifted toward instead using FDA-approved "rinse-off" metallized-plastic glitter as their primary abra...
308. ...lly damaging to the surfaces of teeth. The American National Standards Institute and American Dental Association considers toothpastes with an RDA below 250 to be safe and effective for a lifetime of **use**. Fluoride in various forms is the most popular and effective active ingredient in toothpaste to prevent cavities. Fluoride is present in small amounts in plants, animals, and some natural water sourc...
309. ...t tooth decay, according to a 2019 Cochrane review. Concentrations below 1,000 ppm are not likely to be preventive, and the preventive effect increases with concentration. Clinical trials support the **use** of high fluoride (5,000 ppm fluoride) dentifrices, for prevention of root caries in elderly adults by reducing the amount of plaque accumulated, decreasing the number of mutans streptococci and lacto...
310. ...y adults by reducing the amount of plaque accumulated, decreasing the number of mutans streptococci and lactobacilli and possibly promoting calcium fluoride deposits to a higher degree than after the **use** of traditional fluoride containing dentifrices. Many, although not all, toothpastes contain sodium lauryl sulfate (SLS) or related surfactants (detergents). SLS is found in many other personal care p...
311. ..., a 48% reduction in bleeding gums. However, there was insufficient evidence to show a difference in fighting periodontitis and there was no evidence either of any harmful effects associated with the **use** of triclosan toothpastes for more than 3 years. The evidence relating to plaque and gingivitis was considered to be of moderate quality while for periodontitis was low quality. Recently, triclosan ha...
312. .... Recently, triclosan has been removed as an ingredient from well-known toothpaste formulations. This may be attributed to concerns about adverse effects associated with triclosan exposure. Triclosan **use** in cosmetics has been positively correlated with triclosan levels in human tissues, plasma and breast milk, and is considered to have potential neurotoxic effects. Long-term studies are needed to sub...
313. ...otect against dental erosion and dentine hypersensitivity, making it a multifunctional component in toothpaste formulations. Toothpaste comes in a variety of colors and flavors, intended to encourage **use** of the product. The three most common flavorants are peppermint, spearmint, and wintergreen. Toothpaste flavored with peppermint-anise oil is popular in the Mediterranean region. These flavors are pr...
314. ...been popular for its positive effect on controlling plaque and gingivitis, however, a systemic review studied the effects of chlorohexidine toothpastes and found insufficient evidence to support its **use**, tooth surface discoloration was observed as a side effect upon using it, which is considered a negative side effect that can affect patients' compliance. Sodium hydroxide, also known as lye or caust...
315. ...are of low quality and high risk of bias. Fluoride-containing toothpaste can be acutely toxic if swallowed in large amounts, but instances are exceedingly rare and result from prolonged and excessive **use** of toothpaste (i.e. several tubes per week). Approximately 15 mg/kg body weight is the acute lethal dose, even though as small amount as 5 mg/kg may be fatal to some children. The risk of using fluor...
316. ...l tubes per week). Approximately 15 mg/kg body weight is the acute lethal dose, even though as small amount as 5 mg/kg may be fatal to some children. The risk of using fluoride is low enough that the **use** of full-strength toothpaste (1350–1500 ppm fluoride) is advised for all ages. However, smaller volumes are used for young children, for example, a smear of toothpaste until three years old. A major c...
317. ...phosphate to break down or dissolve stains. When used twice a day, whitening toothpaste typically takes two to four weeks to make teeth appear whiter. Whitening toothpaste is generally safe for daily **use**, but excessive use might damage tooth enamel. A recent systematic review in 2017 concluded that nearly all dentifrices that are specifically formulated for tooth whitening were shown to have a benefi...
318. ...down or dissolve stains. When used twice a day, whitening toothpaste typically takes two to four weeks to make teeth appear whiter. Whitening toothpaste is generally safe for daily use, but excessive **use** might damage tooth enamel. A recent systematic review in 2017 concluded that nearly all dentifrices that are specifically formulated for tooth whitening were shown to have a beneficial effect in redu...
319. ...cotine. Charcoal has also been incorporated in toothpaste formulas; however, there is no evidence to determine its safety and effectiveness, and the American Dental Association does not recommend its **use**. In the United States toothpaste is regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a cosmetic, except for ingredients with a medical purpose, such as fluoride, which are regulated as drugs. Dr...
320. ...in 1965 (UK patent 813,514). Although Stripe was initially very successful, it never again achieved the 8% market share that it cornered during its second year. Marraffino's design, which remains in **use** for single-color stripes, is simple. The main material, usually white, sits at the crimp end of the toothpaste tube and makes up most of its bulk. A thin pipe, through which that carrier material wil...
321. ...sive to manufacture) than either the Marraffino design or the Colgate designs. The iconic depiction of a wave-shaped blob of toothpaste sitting on a toothbrush is called a "nurdle". Tooth powders for **use** with toothbrushes came into general use in the 19th century in Britain. Most were homemade, with chalk, pulverized brick, or salt as ingredients. An 1866 Home Encyclopedia recommended pulverized char...
322. ...raffino design or the Colgate designs. The iconic depiction of a wave-shaped blob of toothpaste sitting on a toothbrush is called a "nurdle". Tooth powders for use with toothbrushes came into general **use** in the 19th century in Britain. Most were homemade, with chalk, pulverized brick, or salt as ingredients. An 1866 Home Encyclopedia recommended pulverized charcoal, and cautioned that many patented t...
323. ...resin), cinnamon, and burned alum. In 1873 the Colgate company began the mass production of aromatic toothpaste in jars. By 1900, a paste made of hydrogen peroxide and baking soda was recommended for **use** with toothbrushes. Pre-mixed toothpastes were first marketed in the 19th century, but did not surpass the popularity of tooth-powder until World War I. Together with Willoughby D. Miller, Newell Sill...
324. ...d in a conscientiously applied program of oral hygiene and regular professional care." In 1980, the Japanese company, Sangi Co., Ltd., launched APADENT, the world's first remineralizing toothpaste to **use** a nano-form of hydroxyapatite, the main component of tooth enamel, rather than fluoride, to remineralize areas of mineral loss below the surface of tooth enamel (incipient caries lesions). After many...
325. ...y used by a single person, this practice is still unsafe as it can introduce bacteria from the skin into the bloodstream and cause serious and sometimes lethal infections. In medical settings, single-**use** needles and syringes effectively reduce the risk of cross-contamination. Medical syringes are sometimes used without a needle for orally administering liquid medicines to young children or animals, o...
326. ...tip but longer and tapered, making it good for pushing into things where there the plastic taper can form a tight seal. These can also be used for rinsing out wounds or large abscesses in veterinary **use**. There is also an eccentric tip, where the nozzle at the end of the syringe is not in the centre of the syringe but at the side. This causes the blade attached to the syringe to lie almost in line wi...
327. ...d produced a sealed cartridge system under the registered trademark Carpule. The current trademark owner is Kulzer Dental GmbH. The carpules have long been reserved for anesthetic products for dental **use**. It is practically a bottomless flask. The latter is replaced by an elastomer plug that can slide in the body of the cartridge. This plug will be pushed by the plunger of the syringe. The neck is clo...
328. .... This plug will be pushed by the plunger of the syringe. The neck is closed with a rubber cap. The dentist places the cartridge directly into a stainless steel syringe, with a double-pointed (single-**use**) needle. The tip placed on the cartridge side punctures the capsule and the piston will push the product. There is therefore no contact between the product and the ambient air during use. The ancilla...
329. ...nted (single-use) needle. The tip placed on the cartridge side punctures the capsule and the piston will push the product. There is therefore no contact between the product and the ambient air during **use**. The ancillary tool (generally part of a dental engine) used to supply water, compressed air or mist (formed by combination of water and compressed air) to the oral cavity for the purpose of irrigati...
330. ...e COVID-19 pandemic as vaccines were in short supply. In some jurisdictions, the sale or possession of hypodermic syringes may be controlled or prohibited without a prescription, due to its potential **use** with illegal intravenous drugs. The syringe has many non-medical applications. Medical-grade disposable hypodermic syringes are often used in research laboratories for convenience and low cost. Anoth...
331. ...nous drugs. The syringe has many non-medical applications. Medical-grade disposable hypodermic syringes are often used in research laboratories for convenience and low cost. Another application is to **use** the needle tip to add liquids to very confined spaces, such as washing out some scientific apparatus. They are often used for measuring and transferring solvents and reagents where a high precision i...
332. ...onto working surfaces without spilling. Sometimes a large hypodermic syringe is used without a needle for very small baby mammals to suckle from in artificial rearing. Historically, large pumps that **use** reciprocating motion to pump water were referred to as syringes. Pumps of this type were used as early firefighting equipment. There are fountain syringes where the liquid is in a bag or can and goes...
333. ...re it, and vice versa. In mirror writing a text is deliberately displayed as its mirror image, in order to be read through a mirror. For example, emergency vehicles such as ambulances or fire engines **use** mirror images in order to be read from a vehicle's rear-view mirror. Some movie theaters also use mirror writing in a Rear Window Captioning System used to assist individuals with hearing impairments...
334. ...order to be read through a mirror. For example, emergency vehicles such as ambulances or fire engines use mirror images in order to be read from a vehicle's rear-view mirror. Some movie theaters also **use** mirror writing in a Rear Window Captioning System used to assist individuals with hearing impairments in watching films. In the case of two mirrors, in planes at an angle α, looking through both from...
335. ...rd. It is also possible to create a non-reversing mirror by placing two first surface mirrors at 90º to give an image which is not reversed. Side effect In medicine, a side effect is an effect of the **use** of a medicinal drug or other treatment, usually adverse but sometimes beneficial, that is unintended. Herbal and traditional medicines also have side effects. A drug or procedure usually used for a s...
336. ...Herbal and traditional medicines also have side effects. A drug or procedure usually used for a specific effect may be used specifically because of a beneficial side-effect; this is termed "off-label **use**" until such use is approved. For instance, X-rays have long been used as an imaging technique; the discovery of their oncolytic capability led to their use in radiotherapy for ablation of malignant t...
337. ...tional medicines also have side effects. A drug or procedure usually used for a specific effect may be used specifically because of a beneficial side-effect; this is termed "off-label use" until such **use** is approved. For instance, X-rays have long been used as an imaging technique; the discovery of their oncolytic capability led to their use in radiotherapy for ablation of malignant tumours. The Worl...
338. ...cial side-effect; this is termed "off-label use" until such use is approved. For instance, X-rays have long been used as an imaging technique; the discovery of their oncolytic capability led to their **use** in radiotherapy for ablation of malignant tumours. The World Health Organization and other health organisations characterise the probability of experiencing side effects as: The European Commission r...
339. ...delivered to the populace by fluoridating table salt. For the method of action for cavity prevention, see Fluoride therapy. Fluoridation of water has its critics . Fluoridated toothpaste is in common **use**. Meta-analysis show the efficacy of 500 ppm fluoride in toothpastes. However, no beneficial effect can be detected when more than one fluoride source is used for daily oral care. Fluoride salts are c...
340. ...nces which had the ability of "causing death or serious debilitation or exhibiting symptoms of infection." The word draws its origins from the Greek noun τόξον "" (meaning "arc"), in reference to the **use** of bows and poisoned arrows as weapons. English-speaking American culture has adopted several figurative usages for "toxicity", often when describing harmful inter-personal relationships or character...
341. ...at, one might assume that one-tenth that dose would be safe for a human, allowing a safety factor of 10 to allow for interspecies differences between two mammals; if the data are from fish, one might **use** a factor of 100 to account for the greater difference between two chordate classes (fish and mammals). Similarly, an extra protection factor may be used for individuals believed to be more susceptibl...
342. ...f the toxic substances, toxic techniques, and toxic fumes in glues, painting mediums, pigments, and solvents, many of which in their labelling gave no indication of their toxicity. An example was the **use** of xylol for cleaning silk screens. Painters began to notice the dangers of breathing painting mediums and thinners such as turpentine. Aware of toxicants in studios and workshops, in 1998 printmaker...
343. ...from a confusion between the "Ricinus" plant that produces it and another plant, the "Vitex agnus-castus". An alternative etymology, though, suggests that it was used as a replacement for castoreum. **Use** of castor oil as a laxative is attested to in the Ebers Papyrus, and it was in use several centuries earlier. Midwifery manuals from the 19th century recommended castor oil and 10 drops of laudanum f...
344. ...he "Vitex agnus-castus". An alternative etymology, though, suggests that it was used as a replacement for castoreum. Use of castor oil as a laxative is attested to in the Ebers Papyrus, and it was in **use** several centuries earlier. Midwifery manuals from the 19th century recommended castor oil and 10 drops of laudanum for relieving "false pains." Castor oil is well known as a source of ricinoleic acid...
345. ...to relieve constipation or to evacuate the bowel before intestinal surgery. The laxative effect of castor oil is attributed to ricinoleic acid, which is produced by hydrolysis in the small intestine. **Use** of castor oil for simple constipation is medically discouraged because it may cause violent diarrhea. In the food industry, food-grade castor oil is used in food additives, flavorings, candy (e.g., p...
346. ...n Belgian Congo as a punishment for being too sick to work. Castor oil was also a tool of punishment favored by the Falangist and later Francoist Spain during and following the Spanish Civil War. Its **use** as a form of gendered violence to repress women was especially prominent.  This began during the war where Nationalist forces would specifically target Republican-aligned women, both troops and civil...
347. ...both troops and civilians, who lived in Republican-controlled areas.  The forced drinking of castor oil occurred alongside sexual assault, rape, torture and murder of these women. Its most notorious **use** as punishment came in Fascist Italy under Benito Mussolini. It was a favorite tool used by the Blackshirts to intimidate and humiliate their opponents.  Political dissidents were force-fed large quan...
348. ...he polyurethane industry. The average functionality (number of hydroxyl groups per triglyceride molecule) of castor oil is 2.7, so it is widely used as a rigid polyol and in coatings.  One particular **use** is in a polyurethane concrete where a castor-oil emulsion is reacted with an isocyanate (usually polymeric methylene diphenyl diisocyanate) and a cement and construction aggregate. This is applied fa...
349. ...lergen may be neutralized by treatment with a variety of alkaline agents. The allergen is not present in the castor oil itself. Handedness In human biology, handedness is an individual's preferential **use** of one hand, known as the dominant hand, due to it being stronger, faster or more dextrous. The other hand, comparatively often the weaker, less dextrous or simply less subjectively preferred, is cal...
350. ...ggests that left-handedness has an epigenetic marker—a combination of genetics, biology and the environment. Because the vast majority of the population is right-handed, many devices are designed for **use** by right-handed people, making their use by left-handed people more difficult. In many countries, left-handed people are or were required to write with their right hands. However, left-handed people...
351. ...etic marker—a combination of genetics, biology and the environment. Because the vast majority of the population is right-handed, many devices are designed for use by right-handed people, making their **use** by left-handed people more difficult. In many countries, left-handed people are or were required to write with their right hands. However, left-handed people have an advantage in sports that involve...
352. ...ision of labor. In most people, the left side of the brain controls speaking. The theory suggests it is more efficient for the brain to divide major tasks between the hemispheres—thus most people may **use** the non-speaking (right) hemisphere for perception and gross motor skills. As speech is a very complex motor control task, the specialised fine motor areas controlling speech are most efficiently use...
353. ...In the article they assessed 38 infants and followed them through to 12 months and then again once they became toddlers from 18 to 24 months. They discovered that when a child developed a consistent **use** of their right or left hand during infancy (such as using the right hand to put the pacifier back in, or grasping random objects with the left hand), they were more likely to have superior language s...
354. ...associated with a smaller corpus callosum whereas low handedness with a larger one. Left-handedness is associated with better divergent thinking. Many tools and procedures are designed to facilitate **use** by right-handed people, often without realizing the difficulties incurred by the left-handed. John W. Santrock has written, "For centuries, left-handers have suffered unfair discrimination in a world...
355. ...lties incurred by the left-handed. John W. Santrock has written, "For centuries, left-handers have suffered unfair discrimination in a world designed for right-handers." Many products for left-handed **use** are made by specialist producers, although not available from normal suppliers. Items as simple as a knife ground for use with the right hand are less convenient for left-handers. There is a multitud...
356. ...ination in a world designed for right-handers." Many products for left-handed use are made by specialist producers, although not available from normal suppliers. Items as simple as a knife ground for **use** with the right hand are less convenient for left-handers. There is a multitude of examples: kitchen tools such as knives, corkscrews and scissors, garden tools, and so on. While not requiring a purpo...
357. ...o on. While not requiring a purpose-designed product, there are more appropriate ways for left-handers to tie shoelaces. There are companies that supply products designed specifically for left-handed **use**. One such is Anything Left-Handed, which in 1967 opened a shop in Soho, London; the shop closed in 2006, but the company continues to supply left-handed products worldwide by mail order. Writing from...
358. ...what was just written. Left-handed writers have developed various ways of holding a pen for best results. For using a fountain pen, preferred by many left-handers, nibs ground to optimise left-handed **use** (pushing rather than pulling across the paper) without scratching are available. McManus noted that, as the Industrial Revolution spread across Western Europe and the United States in the 19th centur...
359. ...ntly in Taiwan, left-handed people were forced to switch to being right-handed, or at least switch to writing with the right hand. Due to the importance of stroke order, developed for the comfortable **use** of right-handed people, it is considered more difficult to write legible Chinese characters with the left hand than it is to write Latin letters, though difficulty is subjective and depends on the wr...
360. ...of being left-handed." It celebrates their uniqueness and differences, who are from seven to ten percent of the world's population. Thousands of left-handed people in today's society have to adapt to **use** right-handed tools and objects. Again according to the club, "in the U.K. alone there were over 20 regional events to mark the day in 2001 – including left-v-right sports matches, a left-handed tea p...
361. ...dedness was particularly apparent in the red kangaroo ("Macropus rufus") and the eastern gray kangaroo ("Macropus giganteus"). Red-necked (Bennett's) wallabies ("Macropus rufogriseus") preferentially **use** their left hand for behaviours that involve fine manipulation, but the right for behaviours that require more physical strength. There was less evidence for handedness in arboreal species. Studies of...
362. ...hat experienced the same heat treatment (i.e., were in the same oven at the same time). Material traceability is important to the aerospace, nuclear, and process industry because they frequently make **use** of high strength materials that look identical to commercial low strength versions. In these industries, a part made of the wrong material is called "counterfeit", even if the substitution was accide...
363. ...high production and quality areas of a business, versus those of low return, and where points in the production process may be improved. In "food processing software", traceability systems imply the **use** of a unique piece of data (e.g., order date/time or a serialized sequence number, generally through the use of a barcode / RFID) which can be traced through the entire production flow, linking all se...
364. ...tion process may be improved. In "food processing software", traceability systems imply the use of a unique piece of data (e.g., order date/time or a serialized sequence number, generally through the **use** of a barcode / RFID) which can be traced through the entire production flow, linking all sections of the business, including suppliers and future sales through the supply chain. Messages and files at...
365. ...state unless date/time stamped. Alternate automated approaches for generating traces using information retrieval methods have been developed. In transaction processing software, traceability implies **use** of a unique piece of data (e.g., order date/time or a serialized sequence number) which can be traced through the entire software flow of all relevant application programs. Messages and files at any...
366. ...y 90%. Medical cannabis Medical cannabis, medicinal cannabis or medical marijuana (MMJ) refers to cannabis products and cannabinoid molecules that are prescribed by physicians for their patients. The **use** of cannabis as medicine has a long history, but has not been as rigorously tested as other medicinal plants due to legal and governmental restrictions, resulting in limited clinical research to defin...
367. ...review found that it provided little relief against chronic pain and sleep disturbance, and caused several transient adverse effects, such as cognitive impairment, nausea, and drowsiness. Short-term **use** increases the risk of minor and major adverse effects. Common side effects include dizziness, feeling tired, vomiting, and hallucinations. Long-term effects of cannabis are not clear. Concerns includ...
368. ...methods, including capsules, lozenges, tinctures, dermal patches, oral or dermal sprays, cannabis edibles, and vaporizing or smoking dried buds. Synthetic cannabinoids are available for prescription **use** in some countries, such as synthetic delta-9-THC and nabilone. Countries that allow the medical use of whole-plant cannabis include Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Greece, Isr...
369. ...dibles, and vaporizing or smoking dried buds. Synthetic cannabinoids are available for prescription use in some countries, such as synthetic delta-9-THC and nabilone. Countries that allow the medical **use** of whole-plant cannabis include Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, the Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Spain, and Uruguay. In the United States, 38 st...
370. ..., 38 states and the District of Columbia have legalized cannabis for medical purposes, beginning with the passage of California's Proposition 215 in 1996. Although cannabis remains prohibited for any **use** at the federal level, the Rohrabacher–Farr amendment was enacted in December 2014, limiting the ability of federal law to be enforced in states where medical cannabis has been legalized. In the U.S.,...
371. ...it is a useful treatment for any condition, or whether harms outweigh any benefit. There is no consistent evidence that it helps with chronic pain and muscle spasms. Low quality evidence suggests its **use** for reducing nausea during chemotherapy, improving appetite in HIV/AIDS, improving sleep, and improving tics in Tourette syndrome. When usual treatments are ineffective, cannabinoids have also been r...
372. ...Examination Survey (NHANES) did not find significant differences in sleep duration between cannabis users and non-users. This suggests that while some individuals may perceive benefits from cannabis **use** in terms of sleep, it may not significantly change overall sleep patterns across the general population. A review of literature up to 2018 indicates that cannabidiol (CBD) may have therapeutic potent...
373. ...ochlorperazine, promethazine, and metoclopramide in controlling CINV, but these are used less frequently because of side effects including dizziness, dysphoria, and hallucinations. Long-term cannabis **use** may cause nausea and vomiting, a condition known as cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome (CHS). A 2016 Cochrane review said that cannabinoids were "probably effective" in treating chemotherapy-induced na...
374. ...that oral cannabis extract is effective for reducing patient-centered measures of spasticity. A trial of cannabis is deemed to be a reasonable option if other treatments have not been effective. Its **use** for MS is approved in ten countries. A 2012 review found no problems with tolerance, abuse, or addiction. In the United States, cannabidiol, one of the cannabinoids found in the marijuana plant, has...
375. ...educing) effects. A study found that CBD significantly reduced anxiety during a simulated public speaking test for individuals with social anxiety disorder. However, the relationship between cannabis **use** and anxiety symptoms is complex, and while some users report relief, the overall evidence from observational studies and clinical trials remains inconclusive. Cannabis is often used by people to cope...
376. ...d clinical trials remains inconclusive. Cannabis is often used by people to cope with anxiety, yet the efficacy and safety of cannabis for treating anxiety disorders is yet to be researched. Cannabis **use**, especially at high doses, is associated with a higher risk of psychosis, particularly in individuals with a genetic predisposition to psychotic disorders like schizophrenia. Some studies have shown...
377. ...may increase the risk of developing a psychotic disorder later. The impact of cannabis on depression is less clear. Some studies suggest a potential increase in depression risk among adolescents who **use** cannabis, though findings are inconsistent across studies. There is insufficient data to draw strong conclusions about the safety of medical cannabis. Typically, adverse effects of medical cannabis u...
378. ...e cannabis, though findings are inconsistent across studies. There is insufficient data to draw strong conclusions about the safety of medical cannabis. Typically, adverse effects of medical cannabis **use** are not serious; they include tiredness, dizziness, increased appetite, and cardiovascular and psychoactive effects. Other effects can include impaired short-term memory; impaired motor coordination;...
379. ...or to operate machinery may be impaired until a tolerance is developed. Although supporters of medical cannabis say that it is safe, further research is required to assess the long-term safety of its **use**. Recreational use of cannabis is associated with cognitive deficits, especially for those who begin to use cannabis in adolescence. there is a lack of research into long-term cognitive effects of med...
380. ...inery may be impaired until a tolerance is developed. Although supporters of medical cannabis say that it is safe, further research is required to assess the long-term safety of its use. Recreational **use** of cannabis is associated with cognitive deficits, especially for those who begin to use cannabis in adolescence. there is a lack of research into long-term cognitive effects of medical use of cannab...
381. ...abis say that it is safe, further research is required to assess the long-term safety of its use. Recreational use of cannabis is associated with cognitive deficits, especially for those who begin to **use** cannabis in adolescence. there is a lack of research into long-term cognitive effects of medical use of cannabis, but one 12-month observational study reported that "MC patients demonstrated signific...
382. ...reational use of cannabis is associated with cognitive deficits, especially for those who begin to use cannabis in adolescence. there is a lack of research into long-term cognitive effects of medical **use** of cannabis, but one 12-month observational study reported that "MC patients demonstrated significant improvements on measures of executive function and clinical state over the course of 12 months"....
383. ...al state over the course of 12 months". Exposure to THC can cause acute transient psychotic symptoms in healthy individuals and people with schizophrenia. A 2007 meta analysis concluded that cannabis **use** reduced the average age of onset of psychosis by 2.7 years relative to non-cannabis use. A 2005 meta analysis concluded that adolescent use of cannabis increases the risk of psychosis, and that the r...
384. ...tic symptoms in healthy individuals and people with schizophrenia. A 2007 meta analysis concluded that cannabis use reduced the average age of onset of psychosis by 2.7 years relative to non-cannabis **use**. A 2005 meta analysis concluded that adolescent use of cannabis increases the risk of psychosis, and that the risk is dose-related. A 2004 literature review on the subject concluded that cannabis use...
385. ...schizophrenia. A 2007 meta analysis concluded that cannabis use reduced the average age of onset of psychosis by 2.7 years relative to non-cannabis use. A 2005 meta analysis concluded that adolescent **use** of cannabis increases the risk of psychosis, and that the risk is dose-related. A 2004 literature review on the subject concluded that cannabis use is associated with a two-fold increase in the risk...
386. ...use. A 2005 meta analysis concluded that adolescent use of cannabis increases the risk of psychosis, and that the risk is dose-related. A 2004 literature review on the subject concluded that cannabis **use** is associated with a two-fold increase in the risk of psychosis, but that cannabis use is "neither necessary nor sufficient" to cause psychosis. A French review from 2009 came to a conclusion that ca...
387. ...of psychosis, and that the risk is dose-related. A 2004 literature review on the subject concluded that cannabis use is associated with a two-fold increase in the risk of psychosis, but that cannabis **use** is "neither necessary nor sufficient" to cause psychosis. A French review from 2009 came to a conclusion that cannabis use, particularly that before age 15, was a factor in the development of schizop...
388. ...ociated with a two-fold increase in the risk of psychosis, but that cannabis use is "neither necessary nor sufficient" to cause psychosis. A French review from 2009 came to a conclusion that cannabis **use**, particularly that before age 15, was a factor in the development of schizophrenic disorders. The genus "Cannabis" contains two species which produce useful amounts of psychoactive cannabinoids: "Can...
389. ...s excreted in feces and some in the urine. The terminal half-life is approximately 18–32 hours. Smoking has been the means of administration of cannabis for many users, but it is not suitable for the **use** of cannabis as a medicine. It was the most common method of medical cannabis consumption in the US . It is difficult to predict the pharmacological response to cannabis because concentration of canna...
390. ...dence is lacking concerning safety and efficacy. The FDA issued a 2006 advisory against "smoked" medical cannabis stating: "marijuana has a high potential for abuse, has no currently accepted medical **use** in treatment in the United States, and has a lack of accepted safety for use under medical supervision." Cannabis, called "má" 麻 (meaning "hemp; cannabis; numbness") or "dàmá" (with "big; great") in...
391. ...ry against "smoked" medical cannabis stating: "marijuana has a high potential for abuse, has no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, and has a lack of accepted safety for **use** under medical supervision." Cannabis, called "má" 麻 (meaning "hemp; cannabis; numbness") or "dàmá" (with "big; great") in Chinese, was used in Taiwan for fiber starting about 10,000 years ago. The bo...
392. ...d "má" 麻 (meaning "hemp; cannabis; numbness") or "dàmá" (with "big; great") in Chinese, was used in Taiwan for fiber starting about 10,000 years ago. The botanist Hui-lin Li wrote that in China, "The **use** of Cannabis in medicine was probably a very early development. Since ancient humans used hemp seed as food, it was quite natural for them to also discover the medicinal properties of the plant." Empe...
393. ...d sores on their horses, and in humans, dried leaves of cannabis were used to treat nose bleeds, and cannabis seeds were used to expel tapeworms. In the medieval Islamic world, Arabic physicians made **use** of the diuretic, antiemetic, antiepileptic, anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic properties of "Cannabis sativa", and used it extensively as medication from the 8th to 18th centuries. Cannabi...
394. ...umerous experiments investigating the drug's medical utility (noting in particular its analgesic and anticonvulsant effects). He returned to England with a supply of cannabis in 1842, after which its **use** spread through Europe and the United States. In 1845 French physician Jacques-Joseph Moreau published a book about the use of cannabis in psychiatry. In 1850 cannabis was entered into the United Stat...
395. ...). He returned to England with a supply of cannabis in 1842, after which its use spread through Europe and the United States. In 1845 French physician Jacques-Joseph Moreau published a book about the **use** of cannabis in psychiatry. In 1850 cannabis was entered into the United States Pharmacopeia. An anecdotal report of "Cannabis indica" as a treatment for tetanus appeared in Scientific American in 188...
396. ...nabis in psychiatry. In 1850 cannabis was entered into the United States Pharmacopeia. An anecdotal report of "Cannabis indica" as a treatment for tetanus appeared in Scientific American in 1880. The **use** of cannabis in medicine began to decline by the end of the 19th century, due to difficulty in controlling dosages and the rise in popularity of synthetic and opium-derived drugs. Also, the advent of...
397. ...the hypodermic syringe allowed these drugs to be injected for immediate effect, in contrast to cannabis which is not water-soluble and therefore cannot be injected. In the United States, the medical **use** of cannabis further declined with the passage of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, which imposed new regulations and fees on physicians prescribing cannabis. Cannabis was removed from the U.S. Pharmacop...
398. ...age of the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937, which imposed new regulations and fees on physicians prescribing cannabis. Cannabis was removed from the U.S. Pharmacopeia in 1941, and officially banned for any **use** with the passage of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Cannabis began to attract renewed interest as medicine in the 1970s and 1980s, in particular due to its use by cancer and AIDS patients who...
399. ...1, and officially banned for any use with the passage of the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. Cannabis began to attract renewed interest as medicine in the 1970s and 1980s, in particular due to its **use** by cancer and AIDS patients who reported relief from the effects of chemotherapy and wasting syndrome. In 1996, California became the first U.S. state to legalize medical cannabis in defiance of fede...
400. ...ng syndrome. In 1996, California became the first U.S. state to legalize medical cannabis in defiance of federal law. In 2001, Canada became the first country to adopt a system regulating the medical **use** of cannabis. Countries that have legalized the medical use of cannabis include Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Gr...
401. ...e to legalize medical cannabis in defiance of federal law. In 2001, Canada became the first country to adopt a system regulating the medical use of cannabis. Countries that have legalized the medical **use** of cannabis include Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Malta, M...
402. ...New Zealand, North Macedonia, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Rwanda, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Thailand, the United Kingdom, and Uruguay. Other countries have more restrictive laws that allow only the **use** of isolated cannabinoid drugs such as Sativex or Epidiolex. Countries with the most relaxed policies include Canada, the Netherlands, Thailand, and Uruguay, where cannabis can be purchased without ne...
403. ...vention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Cannabis and cannabis resin are classified as a Schedule I drug under the Single Convention treaty, meaning that medical **use** is considered "indispensible for the relief of pain and suffering" but that it is considered to be an addictive medication with risks of abuse. Countries have an obligation to provide access and suff...
404. ...Commission on Narcotic Drugs voted 27–25 to remove it from Schedule IV on 2 December 2020, following a World Health Organization recommendation for removal in January 2019. In the United States, the **use** of cannabis for medical purposes is legal in 38 states, four out of five permanently inhabited U.S. territories, and the District of Columbia. An additional 10 states have more restrictive laws allow...
405. ...abis for medical purposes is legal in 38 states, four out of five permanently inhabited U.S. territories, and the District of Columbia. An additional 10 states have more restrictive laws allowing the **use** of low-THC products. Cannabis remains illegal at the federal level under the Controlled Substances Act, which classifies it as a Schedule I drug with a high potential for abuse and no accepted medica...
406. ...f low-THC products. Cannabis remains illegal at the federal level under the Controlled Substances Act, which classifies it as a Schedule I drug with a high potential for abuse and no accepted medical **use**. In December 2014, however, the Rohrabacher–Farr amendment was signed into law, prohibiting the Justice Department from prosecuting individuals acting in accordance with state medical cannabis laws....
407. ...t was signed into law, prohibiting the Justice Department from prosecuting individuals acting in accordance with state medical cannabis laws. In the US, the FDA has approved two oral cannabinoids for **use** as medicine in 1985: dronabinol (pure delta-9-THC; brand name Marinol) and nabilone (a synthetic neocannabinoid; brand name Cesamet). In the US, they are both listed as Schedule II, indicating high p...
408. ...ion and by legislation. In the US, most consumers grow their own or buy it from cannabis dispensaries in states where it is legal. Marijuana vending machines for selling or dispensing cannabis are in **use** in the United States and are planned to be used in Canada. In 2014, the startup Meadow began offering on-demand delivery of medical marijuana in the San Francisco Bay Area, through their mobile app....
409. ...d, and it may be difficult to determine optimal dosage because of variability in patient absorption. In 1964, Albert Lockhart and Manley West began studying the health effects of traditional cannabis **use** in Jamaican communities. They developed, and in 1987 gained permission to market, the pharmaceutical "Canasol", one of the first cannabis extracts. A 2022 review concluded that "oral, synthetic canna...
410. ...Attempts at providing intravenous therapy have been recorded as early as the 1400s, but the practice did not become widespread until the 1900s after the development of techniques for safe, effective **use**. The intravenous route is the fastest way to deliver medications and fluid replacement throughout the body as they are introduced directly into the circulatory system and thus quickly distributed. Fo...
411. ..."bolus" or one-time dose, but they may also be administered as an extended "infusion" or "drip". The act of administering a therapy intravenously, or placing an intravenous line ("IV line") for later **use**, is a procedure which should only be performed by a skilled professional. The most basic intravenous access consists of a needle piercing the skin and entering a vein which is connected to a syringe...
412. ...her side effects. Intravenous (IV) access is used to administer medications and fluid replacement which must be distributed throughout the body, especially when rapid distribution is desired. Another **use** of IV administration is the avoidance of first-pass metabolism in the liver. Substances that may be infused intravenously include volume expanders, blood-based products, blood substitutes, medication...
413. ...re is generally cost and time savings over IV administration. Whether a medication can be potentially switched to an oral form is sometimes considered when choosing appropriate antibiotic therapy for **use** in a hospital setting, as a person is unlikely to be discharged if they still require IV therapy. Some medications, such as aprepitant, are chemically modified to be better suited for IV administrati...
414. ...c reasons or to delay the effect of the drug until it can be metabolized into the active form. A blood product (or "blood-based product") is any component of blood which is collected from a donor for **use** in a blood transfusion. Blood transfusions can be used in massive blood loss due to trauma, or can be used to replace blood lost during surgery. Blood transfusions may also be used to treat a severe...
415. ...bates arose, resulting in transfusion being prohibited in France. There was virtually no recorded success with any attempts at injection therapy until the 1800s, when in 1831 Thomas Latta studied the **use** of IV fluid replacements for cholera treatment. The first solutions which saw widespread use for IV injections were simple "saline-like solutions", which were followed by experiments with various oth...
416. ...rded success with any attempts at injection therapy until the 1800s, when in 1831 Thomas Latta studied the use of IV fluid replacements for cholera treatment. The first solutions which saw widespread **use** for IV injections were simple "saline-like solutions", which were followed by experiments with various other liquids, including milk, sugar, honey, and egg yolk. In the 1830s, James Blundell, an Engl...
417. ...hat does not contain an active ingredient and is used in research studies is called a placebo. In Europe, the term is "medicinal product", and it is defined by EU law as: In the US, a "drug" is: Drug **use** among elderly Americans has been studied; in a group of 2,377 people with an average age of 71 surveyed between 2005 and 2006, 84% took at least one prescription drug, 44% took at least one over-the-...
418. ...ficult to administer, require special handling during administration, require patient monitoring during and immediately after administration, have particular regulatory requirements restricting their **use**, and are generally expensive relative to other drugs. Drugs affecting the central nervous system include psychedelics, hypnotics, anaesthetics, antipsychotics, eugeroics, antidepressants (including t...
419. .... Contrast media. A euthanaticum is used for euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide. Euthanasia is not permitted by law in many countries, and consequently, medicines will not be licensed for this **use** in those countries. A single drug may contain single or multiple active ingredients. The administration is the process by which a patient takes medicine. There are three major categories of drug admi...
420. ...in a process known as classical pharmacology. Since sequencing of the human genome which allowed rapid cloning and synthesis of large quantities of purified proteins, it has become common practice to **use** high throughput screening of large compound libraries against isolated biological targets which are hypothesized to be disease-modifying in a process known as reverse pharmacology. Hits from these sc...
421. ...from these screens are then tested in cells and then in animals for efficacy. Even more recently, scientists have been able to understand the shape of biological molecules at the atomic level and to **use** that knowledge to design (see drug design) drug candidates. Modern drug discovery involves the identification of screening hits, medicinal chemistry, and optimization of those hits to increase the af...
422. ...he Drug Development process starts with Discovery, a process of identifying a new medicine. Development: Chemicals extracted from natural products are used to make pills, capsules, or syrups for oral **use**. Injections for direct infusion into the blood drops for eyes or ears. Preclinical research: Drugs go under laboratory or animal testing, to ensure that they can be used on Humans. Clinical testing:...
423. ...eyes or ears. Preclinical research: Drugs go under laboratory or animal testing, to ensure that they can be used on Humans. Clinical testing: The drug is used on people to confirm that it is safe to **use**. FDA Review: drug is sent to FDA before launching the drug into the market. FDA post-Market Review: The drug is reviewed and monitored by FDA for the safety once it is available to the public. The re...
424. ...ire a prescription, but must be kept in the dispensary, not visible to the public, and be sold only by a pharmacist or pharmacy technician. Doctors may also prescribe prescription drugs for off-label **use** – purposes which the drugs were not originally approved for by the regulatory agency. The Classification of Pharmaco-Therapeutic Referrals helps guide the referral process between pharmacists and doc...
425. ...tion instructions. In 2000 the definition of a prescription error was studied using a Delphi method conference; the conference was motivated by ambiguity in what a prescription error is and a need to **use** a uniform definition in studies. In many jurisdictions, drug prices are regulated. In the UK, the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme is intended to ensure that the National Health Service is able...
426. ...d in 1955 for narcolepsy; its potential users were middle-aged and the elderly. It was not until some time in the 1980s along with hyperactivity in children that Ritalin came onto the market. Medical **use** of methylphenidate is predominantly for symptoms of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Consumption of methylphenidate in the U.S. out-paced all other countries between 1991 and 1999. Si...
427. ...al conditions is believed to date back to prehistoric medicine. The Kahun Gynaecological Papyrus, the oldest known medical text of any kind, dates to about 1800 BC and represents the first documented **use** of any kind of drug. It and other medical papyri describe Ancient Egyptian medical practices, such as using honey to treat infections and the legs of bee-eaters to treat neck pains. Ancient Babylonia...
428. ...other medical papyri describe Ancient Egyptian medical practices, such as using honey to treat infections and the legs of bee-eaters to treat neck pains. Ancient Babylonian medicine demonstrated the **use** of medication in the first half of the 2nd millennium BC. Medicinal creams and pills were employed as treatments. On the Indian subcontinent, the Atharvaveda, a sacred text of Hinduism whose core dat...
429. ...Borgognoni, (1205–1296), one of the most significant surgeons of the medieval period, responsible for introducing and promoting important surgical advances including basic antiseptic practice and the **use** of anaesthetics. Garcia de Orta described some herbal treatments that were used. For most of the 19th century, drugs were not highly effective, leading Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. to famously comment i...
430. ..., biotechnology is used to discover biopharmaceuticals. Recently, multi-disciplinary approaches have yielded a wealth of new data on the development of novel antibiotics and antibacterials and on the **use** of biological agents for antibacterial therapy. In the 1950s, new psychiatric drugs, notably the antipsychotic chlorpromazine, were designed in laboratories and slowly came into preferred use. Althou...
431. ...on the use of biological agents for antibacterial therapy. In the 1950s, new psychiatric drugs, notably the antipsychotic chlorpromazine, were designed in laboratories and slowly came into preferred **use**. Although often accepted as an advance in some ways, there was some opposition, due to serious adverse effects such as tardive dyskinesia. Patients often opposed psychiatry and refused or stopped tak...
432. ...ing access to drugs prior to approval for patients who have exhausted all alternative treatment options and do not match clinical trial entry criteria. Often grouped under the labels of compassionate **use**, expanded access, or named patient supply, these programs are governed by rules which vary by country defining access criteria, data collection, promotion, and control of drug distribution. Within th...
433. ...ment plants, both from industrial plants during production, and from municipal plants after consumption. Agricultural pollution is another significant source derived from the prevalence of antibiotic **use** in livestock. Scientists generally divide environmental impacts of a chemical into three primary categories: persistence, bioaccumulation, and toxicity. Since medications are inherently bio-active, m...
434. ...r disorder. They are also frequently used to treat agitation associated with dementia, anxiety disorder, autism spectrum disorder, persecutory delusion and obsessive-compulsive disorder (an off-label **use**). In dementia, they should only be considered after other treatments have failed and if the patient is a risk to themselves and/or others. The first-line psychiatric treatment for schizophrenia is an...
435. ...negative symptoms of schizophrenia. There is very little evidence on which to base a risk and benefit assessment of using antipsychotics for long-term treatment. The choice of which antipsychotic to **use** for a specific patient is based on benefits, risks, and costs. It is debatable whether, as a class, typical or atypical antipsychotics are better. Both have equal drop-out and symptom relapse rates w...
436. ...Both risperidone and aripiprazole have received FDA approval for irritability in autism. Between May 2007 and April 2008, Dementia and Alzheimer's together accounted for 28% of atypical antipsychotic **use** in patients aged 65 or older. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration requires that all atypical antipsychotics carry a black box warning that the medication has been associated with an increased risk...
437. ...ased risk of mortality in elderly patients. In 2005, the FDA issued an advisory warning of an increased risk of death when atypical antipsychotics are used in dementia. In the subsequent 5 years, the **use** of atypical antipsychotics to treat dementia decreased by nearly 50%. As of now, the only FDA-approved atypical antipsychotic for alzheimer-related dementia is brexpiprazole. The side effects reporte...
438. ...widely believed to have a lower likelihood for the development of tardive dyskinesia than the typical antipsychotics. However, tardive dyskinesia typically develops after long-term (possibly decades) **use** of antipsychotics. It is not clear if atypical antipsychotics, having been in use for a relatively short time, produce a lower incidence of tardive dyskinesia. Among the other side effects that have...
439. ...ia than the typical antipsychotics. However, tardive dyskinesia typically develops after long-term (possibly decades) use of antipsychotics. It is not clear if atypical antipsychotics, having been in **use** for a relatively short time, produce a lower incidence of tardive dyskinesia. Among the other side effects that have been suggested is that atypical antipsychotics increase the risk of cardiovascular...
440. ...extent), cause a high increase of prolactin. In April 2005, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued an advisory and subsequent black box warning regarding the risks of atypical antipsychotic **use** among elderly patients with dementia. The FDA advisory was associated with decreases in the use of atypical antipsychotics, especially among elderly patients with dementia. Subsequent research report...
441. ...(FDA) issued an advisory and subsequent black box warning regarding the risks of atypical antipsychotic use among elderly patients with dementia. The FDA advisory was associated with decreases in the **use** of atypical antipsychotics, especially among elderly patients with dementia. Subsequent research reports confirmed the mortality risks associated with the use of both conventional and atypical antips...
442. ...ory was associated with decreases in the use of atypical antipsychotics, especially among elderly patients with dementia. Subsequent research reports confirmed the mortality risks associated with the **use** of both conventional and atypical antipsychotics to treat patients with dementia. Consequently, in 2008 the FDA issued although a black box warning for classical neuroleptics. Data on treatment effic...
443. ...rapyramidal symptoms, falls, cognitive worsening, cardiac arrhythmia, and pneumonia. Conventional antipsychotics may pose an even greater safety risk. No clear efficacy evidence exists to support the **use** of alternative psychotropic classes (e.g. antidepressants, anticonvulsants). Many different types of medication can induce in patients that have never had symptoms before. A new chapter about OCD in...
444. ...se problems. In the nigrostriatal pathway, D receptor antagonism results in extrapyramidal symptoms. If this antagonism occurs long enough, symptoms of EPS may become permanent, even if antipsychotic **use** is discontinued. In the tuberoinfundibular pathway, D receptor antagonism results in elevated prolactin. If prolactin levels become high enough, hyperprolactinaemia may occur, resulting in sexual dys...
445. ..., requiring blood monitoring for the patient. Despite the effectiveness of clozapine for treatment-resistant schizophrenia, agents with a more favorable side-effect profile were sought for widespread **use**. During the 1990s, olanzapine, risperidone, and quetiapine were introduced, with ziprasidone and aripiprazole following in the early 2000s. The atypical antipsychotic paliperidone was approved by the...
446. ..., such as storage and transport of proteins, enzymes and signal transduction proteins, or infectious diseases. The abundance of metal binding proteins may be inherent to the amino acids that proteins **use**, as even artificial proteins without evolutionary history will readily bind metals. Most metals in the human body are bound to proteins. For instance, the relatively high concentration of iron in the...
447. ...have been worked out in detail. Hemocyanins carry oxygen in the blood of most mollusks, and some arthropods such as the horseshoe crab. They are second only to hemoglobin in biological popularity of **use** in oxygen transport. On oxygenation the two copper(I) atoms at the active site are oxidized to copper(II) and the dioxygen molecules are reduced to peroxide, . Chlorocruorin (as the larger carrier er...
448. ...in people with a history of mental health problems or epilepsy. It appears to be safe during pregnancy and breastfeeding. Mefloquine was developed by the United States Army in the 1970s and came into **use** in the mid-1980s. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is available as a generic medication. Mefloquine is used to both prevent and treat certain forms of malaria....
449. ...with malaria. Doxycycline and atovaquone/proguanil provide protection within one to two days and may be better tolerated. If a person becomes ill with malaria despite prophylaxis with mefloquine, the **use** of halofantrine and quinine for treatment may be ineffective. Mefloquine is used as a treatment for chloroquine-sensitive or resistant "Plasmodium falciparum" malaria, and is deemed a reasonable alte...
450. ...tential for neuropsychiatric side effects that may persist even after discontinuing administration of the medication. In 2013 the FDA stated "Neurologic side effects can occur at any time during drug **use**, and can last for months to years after the drug is stopped or can be permanent." Neurologic effects include dizziness, loss of balance, seizures, and tinnitus. Psychiatric effects include nightmares...
451. ...c intervals. Mefloquine is contraindicated in those with a previous history of seizures or a recent history of psychiatric disorders. Available data suggests that mefloquine is safe and effective for **use** by pregnant women during all trimesters of pregnancy, and it is widely used for this indication. In pregnant women, mefloquine appears to pose minimal risk to the fetus, and is not associated with in...
452. ...h defects or miscarriages. Compared to other malaria chemoprophylaxis regimens, however, mefloqinone may produce more side effects in non-pregnant travelers. Mefloquine is also safe and effective for **use** during breastfeeding, though it appears in breast milk in low concentrations. The World Health Organization (WHO) gives approval for the use of mefloquine in the second and third trimesters of pregna...
453. ...gnant travelers. Mefloquine is also safe and effective for use during breastfeeding, though it appears in breast milk in low concentrations. The World Health Organization (WHO) gives approval for the **use** of mefloquine in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy and use in the first trimester does not mandate termination of pregnancy. Mefloquine is metabolized primarily through the liver. Its elim...
454. ...breastfeeding, though it appears in breast milk in low concentrations. The World Health Organization (WHO) gives approval for the use of mefloquine in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy and **use** in the first trimester does not mandate termination of pregnancy. Mefloquine is metabolized primarily through the liver. Its elimination in persons with impaired liver function may be prolonged, resu...
455. ...en two and four weeks. Total clearance is through the liver, and the primary means of excretion is through the bile and feces, as opposed to only 4% to 9% excreted through the urine. During long-term **use**, the plasma half-life remains unchanged. Liver function tests should be performed during long-term administration of mefloquine. Alcohol use should be avoided during treatment with mefloquine. Specif...
456. ...only 4% to 9% excreted through the urine. During long-term use, the plasma half-life remains unchanged. Liver function tests should be performed during long-term administration of mefloquine. Alcohol **use** should be avoided during treatment with mefloquine. Specifically it is used as mefloquine hydrochloride. Mefloquine is a chiral molecule with two asymmetric carbon centres, which means it has four di...
457. ...were skipped. The drug was first approved in Switzerland in 1984 by Hoffmann-LaRoche, who brought it to market with the name "Lariam". However, mefloquine was not approved by the FDA for prophylactic **use** until 1989. This approval was based primarily on compliance, while safety and tolerability were overlooked. Because of the drug's very long half-life, the Centers for Disease Control originally recom...
458. ...heir intolerance for other alternatives. Between 2001 and 2012, 16,000 Canadian soldiers sent to Afghanistan were given the drug as a preventative measure. In 2013, the US Army banned mefloquine from **use** by its special forces such as the Green Berets. In autumn 2016, the UK military followed suit with their Australian peers after a parliamentary inquiry into the matter revealed that it can cause perm...
459. ...rs who took mefloquine when deployed overseas have claimed they have been left with ongoing mental health problems. In 2020 the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) admitted to a breach of duty regarding the **use** of Mefloquine. by acknowledging numerous instances of failure to assess the risks and warn of potential side effects of the drug. In June 2010, the first case report appeared of a progressive multifo...
460. ...tion is required vary considerably from country to country. As of 2011, around a third of older adults in the U.S. reportedly used OTC drugs, and this number is increasing. By 2018, the prevalence of **use** by adults in the U.S. as first-line treatment for minor illnesses had reached 81%: however, there is some debate as to whether this figure relates to an actual improvement of health. In Canada, there...
461. ...and are intended to be easy for typical consumers to understand. Drug Facts labels include information on the product's active ingredient(s), indications and purpose, safety warnings, directions for **use**, and inactive ingredients. The 2020 "Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act" (CARES Act) includes reforms that modernize the way certain OTC drugs are regulated in the United States. Many...
462. ...of pseudoephedrine is restricted. Sellers of pseudoephedrine must obtain and record the identity of the purchaser and enforce quantity restrictions. After initial attempts to control methamphetamine **use** (by requiring documentation of sale with government issued ID as well as limits on the quantity an individual could purchase) failed to realize meaningful reductions in methamphetamine use and produc...
463. ...mphetamine use (by requiring documentation of sale with government issued ID as well as limits on the quantity an individual could purchase) failed to realize meaningful reductions in methamphetamine **use** and production, Mississippi passed House Bill 512 in the State Senate on February 2, 2010 "to require a prescription from a licensed medical professional to purchase over-the-counter medicines with p...
464. ...hat of a "community pharmacist" (also referred to as a "retail pharmacist", "first-line pharmacist" or "dispensing chemist"), or a "hospital pharmacist", where they instruct and counsel on the proper **use** and adverse effects of medically prescribed drugs and medicines. In most countries, the profession is subject to professional regulation. Depending on the legal scope of practice, pharmacists may con...
465. ...ctions, and side effects of medications, and act as a learned intermediary between a prescriber and a patient. Pharmacists monitor the health and progress of patients to ensure the safe and effective **use** of medication. Pharmacists may practice compounding; however, many medicines are now produced by pharmaceutical companies in a standard dosage and drug delivery form. In some jurisdictions, pharmacis...
466. ...The Ministry of Education and Ministry of Health oversee pharmacy school accreditation in Armenia. Pharmacists are expected to have competency in the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines (EML), the **use** of Standard Treatment Guidelines, drug information, clinical pharmacy, and medicine supply management. There are currently no laws requiring pharmacists to be registered, but all pharmacies must have...
467. ...is degree is considered equivalent to a 5-year bachelor's degree. National drug code The national drug code (NDC) is a unique product identifier used in the United States for drugs intended for human **use**. The Drug Listing Act of 1972 requires registered drug establishments to provide the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) with a current list of all drugs manufactured, prepared, propagated, compounded...
468. ...removing the last two digits. This does not work reliably for 10-digit NDCs where the packaging code might be one digit and not two. In 2022, the FDA proposed revising the NDC regulations to require **use** of a uniform 12-digit NDC with the same three functional segments but with uniform segment lengths of 6, 4, and 2 digits. Berylliosis Berylliosis, or chronic beryllium disease (CBD), is a chronic all...
469. ...of beryllium copper alloy and the subsequent machining of such materials would cause the disease as well. Because it can be difficult to control industrial exposures to beryllium, it is advisable to **use** any methods possible to reduce airborne and surface contamination by beryllium, to minimize the use of beryllium and beryllium-containing alloys whenever possible, and to educate people about the pot...
470. ...well. Because it can be difficult to control industrial exposures to beryllium, it is advisable to use any methods possible to reduce airborne and surface contamination by beryllium, to minimize the **use** of beryllium and beryllium-containing alloys whenever possible, and to educate people about the potential hazards if they are likely to encounter beryllium dust or fumes. It is important to damp wipe...
471. ...e. Somewhat alarmingly, clerical staff who were never involved in handling the material had developed asymptomatic sensitivities. 1996 California Proposition 215 Proposition 215, or the Compassionate **Use** Act of 1996, is a California law permitting the use of medical cannabis despite marijuana's lack of the normal Food and Drug Administration testing for safety and efficacy. It was enacted, on Novembe...
472. ...r involved in handling the material had developed asymptomatic sensitivities. 1996 California Proposition 215 Proposition 215, or the Compassionate Use Act of 1996, is a California law permitting the **use** of medical cannabis despite marijuana's lack of the normal Food and Drug Administration testing for safety and efficacy. It was enacted, on November 5, 1996, by means of the initiative process, and p...
473. ...a, and approved by California voters. It allows patients with a valid doctor's recommendation, and the patients' designated Primary Caregivers, to possess and cultivate marijuana for personal medical **use**, and has since been expanded to protect a growing system of collective and cooperative distribution. The Act added Section 11362.5 to the California Health and Safety Code. California Proposition 215...
474. ...te. Prop P did not have force of law, but was simply a resolution declaring the city's support for medical marijuana. Santa Cruz and other cities followed suit with similar measures endorsing medical **use** of marijuana. The California legislature went on to approve medical marijuana bills advocated by Anna Boyce within the California Senior Legislature and supported by State Senator Milton Marks and As...
475. ...d worked to decriminalize cannabis and declassify cannabis as a Schedule I controlled substance. Dr. Mikuriya spoke worldwide during the 1980s and 1990s in an effort to garner support for the medical **use** of cannabis. Threats to Dennis Peron would cause Peron to leave the United States following the passage of Proposition 215. Meanwhile, the federal government's interagency Task Force, in conjunction...
476. ...veto and by the Clinton administration's ongoing refusal to allow medical marijuana, Peron decided to turn to the voters. In 1995, Peron, Gieringer and Imler organized Californians for Compassionate **Use**, a PAC dedicated to putting medical marijuana on the ballot. Chuck Blitz, a "social-justice entrepreneur", arranged a retreat in Santa Barbara in order to organize the movement. In attendance were Pe...
477. ...spite anecdotal evidence that the patient's self-medication was helpful or needed. The administrative law judge rendering the decision was a director of an organization actively trying to prevent the **use** of cannabis by persons who were prisoners or criminal defendants. Since the passage of Proposition 215, federal officials have tried various approaches – from criminal raids and prosecutions to civil...
478. ...f the success of medical marijuana initiatives across the country.  It was not until March 2009 that federal officials announced that they would no longer try to thwart medical marijuana distribution/**use** in California. During his campaign, President Barack Obama signaled that he would cease the DEA's raids in California as President. On March 18, 2009, Attorney General Eric Holder announced "a shift...
479. ...by law, within 1000 feet of a school, recreation center, or youth center, on a school bus, or in a moving vehicle or boat. According to Cal. Health and Safety Code Section 1362.785 Medical Marijuana **use** is not required to be accommodated inside the workplace or in any type of correctional facilities or during work hours. It is important to note that under the Fair Employment and Housing Act, an empl...
480. ...ny type of correctional facilities or during work hours. It is important to note that under the Fair Employment and Housing Act, an employer may terminate an employee who tests positive for marijuana **use**. The U.S. Supreme Court has twice upheld the ability of federal officials to enforce federal law which conflicts with state law. In 2001, the Oakland Cannabis Buyers' Cooperative claimed "medical nec...
481. ...ere could be no claim of medical necessity because in the CSA Congress had specifically negated this defense by unambiguously classifying marijuana as a substance which can have no authorized medical **use**. The 2005 case of "Gonzales v. Raich" challenged the CSA by claiming that simple cultivation of marijuana plants fell outside of Congress's power to regulate economic activity through its Commerce Cl...
482. ...e O'Connor disagreed with the majority's opinion because sanctioning this application of Congress's CSA "extinguishes that experiment, without any proof that the personal cultivation, possession, and **use** of marijuana for medicinal purposes, if economic activity in the first place, has a substantial effect on interstate commerce and is therefore an appropriate subject of federal regulation." Despite t...
483. ...ndations as thermal insulation and as a water barrier. This material is light blue in color and is owned and manufactured by DuPont. DuPont also has produced a line of green and white foam shapes for **use** in crafts and floral arrangements. The term "styrofoam" is often used in the United States as a colloquial term to refer to expanded (not extruded) polystyrene foam (EPS). Outside the United States,...
484. ...BTU for 1 inch thick sheet. Styrofoam can be used under roads and other structures to prevent soil disturbances due to freezing and thawing. DuPont also produces styrofoam blocks and other shapes for **use** by florists and in craft products. DuPont insulation styrofoam has a distinctive blue color; styrofoam for craft applications is available in white and green. The EPA and International Agency for Res...
485. ...imulant). The book was heavily translated, and portrayed some of the emblematic actions of physicians and herbalists. One such page is "Physician Preparing an Elixir". Dioscorides' plant descriptions **use** an elementary classification, though he cannot be said to have used botanical taxonomy. Book one describes the uses for aromatic oils, salves and ointments, trees and shrubs, and fleshy fruits, even...
486. ...ook five dealt with the medicinal uses for wine and metallic ores. It is a precursor to all modern pharmacopeias, and is considered one of the most influential herbal books in history. It remained in **use** until about 1600 AD. Avicenna (980–1037 AD) was a Persian philosopher, physician, and Islamic scholar. He wrote about 40 books on medicine. His two most famous books are "The Canon of Medicine" and "...
487. ...medicine, translating works by Hippocrates, Aristotle and Galen into Arabic. Avicenna stressed the importance of diet, exercise, and hygiene. He also was the first to describe parasitic infection, to **use** urine for diagnostic purposes and discouraged physicians from the practice of surgery because it was too base and manual. In medieval Europe, medicinal herbs and plants were cultivated in monastery a...
488. ...unts for three times the volume dispensed to humans – leading to development of super-resistant bacteria. Bacteria are capable of not only altering the enzyme targeted by antibiotics, but also by the **use** of enzymes to modify the antibiotic itself and thus neutralize it. Examples of target-altering pathogens are "Staphylococcus aureus", vancomycin-resistant enterococci and macrolide-resistant "Strepto...
489. ...ecto-, plants, fungi, arthropods, mammals, birds, reptiles, fish, and amphibians. In the domestic environment, drug-resistant strains of organism may arise from seemingly safe activities such as the **use** of bleach, tooth-brushing and mouthwashing, the use of antibiotics, disinfectants and detergents, shampoos, and soaps, particularly antibacterial soaps, hand-washing, surface sprays, application of d...
490. ...eptiles, fish, and amphibians. In the domestic environment, drug-resistant strains of organism may arise from seemingly safe activities such as the use of bleach, tooth-brushing and mouthwashing, the **use** of antibiotics, disinfectants and detergents, shampoos, and soaps, particularly antibacterial soaps, hand-washing, surface sprays, application of deodorants, sunblocks and any cosmetic or health-care...
491. ...transporter of medications on the cellular level. If MDR1 is overexpressed, drug resistance increases. Therefore, ABCB1 levels can be monitored. In patients with high levels of ABCB1 expression, the **use** of secondary treatments, like metformin, have been used in conjunction with the primary drug treatment with some success. For antibiotic resistance, which represents a widespread problem nowadays, dr...
492. ...rtain adsorbates are selectively transferred from the fluid phase to the surface of insoluble, rigid particles suspended in a vessel or packed in a column. Pharmaceutical industry applications, which **use** adsorption as a means to prolong neurological exposure to specific drugs or parts thereof, are lesser known. The word "adsorption" was coined in 1881 by German physicist Heinrich Kayser (1853–1940)....
493. ...model applies to gases adsorbed on solid surfaces. It is a semi-empirical isotherm with a kinetic basis and was derived based on statistical thermodynamics. It is the most common isotherm equation to **use** due to its simplicity and its ability to fit a variety of adsorption data. It is based on four assumptions: These four assumptions are seldom all true: there are always imperfections on the surface,...
494. ...ved with the assumption that the heat of adsorption continually decrease as the binding sites are occupied. The choice of the model based on best fitting of the data is a common misconception. 2) The **use** of the linearized form of the Langmuir model is no longer common practice. Advances in computational power allowed for nonlinear regression to be performed quickly and with higher confidence since no...
495. ...cules remain intact  The low cost ($200/ton) and high cycle rate (2,000 ×) of synthetic zeolites such as Linde 13X with water adsorbate has garnered much academic and commercial interest recently for **use** for thermal energy storage (TES), specifically of low-grade solar and waste heat. Several pilot projects have been funded in the EU from 2000 to the present (2020). The basic concept is to store sola...
496. ...s, or winter, humidified air flows through the zeolite. As the humidity is adsorbed by the zeolite, heat is released to the air and subsequently to the building space. This form of TES, with specific **use** of zeolites, was first taught by John Guerra in 1978. Typical adsorbents proposed for carbon capture and storage are zeolites and MOFs. The customization of adsorbents makes them a potentially attrac...
497. ...nanometre-scale morphology. Surfactant adsorption is a similar phenomenon, but utilising surfactant molecules in the place of proteins. Combining an adsorbent with a refrigerant, adsorption chillers **use** heat to provide a cooling effect. This heat, in the form of hot water, may come from any number of industrial sources including waste heat from industrial processes, prime heat from solar thermal ins...
498. ...ight of the vehicle being overtaken. RHT is used in 165 countries and territories, mainly in the Americas, Continental Europe, most of Africa and mainland Asia (except South Asia), while 75 countries **use** LHT, which account for about a sixth of the world's land area, a quarter of its roads, and about a third of its population. In 1919, 104 of the world's territories were LHT and an equal number were R...
499. ...witched to RHT. While many of the countries using LHT were part of the British Empire, others such as Indonesia, Japan, Nepal, Bhutan, Macao, Thailand, Mozambique, Suriname, Sweden and Iceland (which **use** RHT since September 1967 and late May 1968 respectively) were not. Most of the countries that were part of the French colonial empire adopted RHT. Historical switches of traffic handedness have often...
500. ...people are right-handed, and many explanations reference this. Horses are traditionally mounted from the left, and led from the left, with the reins in the right hand. So people walking horses might **use** RHT, to keep the animals separated. Also referenced is the need for pedestrians to keep their swords in the right hand and pass on the left as in LHT, for self-defence. It has been suggested that wag...
501. ...as in British West Africa (present-day Ghana, Gambia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria); former British West Africa, however, has now switched to RHT, as all its neighbours, which are former French colonies, **use** RHT. South Africa, formerly the Cape Colony, introduced LHT in former German South West Africa, present-day Namibia, after the end of World War I. Sudan, formerly part of Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, switch...
502. ...e considering switching to LHT (see "Potential future shifts" section below). In the late 18th century, right-hand traffic started to be introduced in the United States of America based on teamsters' **use** of large freight wagons pulled by several pairs of horses and without a driver's seat; the (typically right-handed) postilion held his whip in his right hand and thus sat on the left rear horse, and...
503. ...l LHT, as well as neighbouring countries Bhutan and Nepal. Myanmar switched to RHT in 1970, although much of its infrastructure is still geared to LHT as its neighbours India, Bangladesh and Thailand **use** LHT. Most cars are used RHD vehicles imported from Japan. Afghanistan was LHT until the 1950s, in line with Pakistan (former part of British India). Although Portuguese Timor (present-day East Timor)...
504. ...ion from 1895–1945. Portuguese Macau (present-day Macau) remained LHT, along with British Hong Kong, despite being transferred to China in 1999 and 1997 respectively. Both North Korea and South Korea **use** RHT since 1946, after liberation from Japanese colonialization. The Philippines was mostly LHT during its Spanish and American colonial periods, as well as during the Commonwealth era. During the Jap...
505. ...nation. Road building standards, for motorways in particular, allow asymmetrically designed road junctions, where merge and diverge lanes differ in length. Today, four countries in Europe continue to **use** LHT, all island nations: the United Kingdom, Ireland (formerly part of the UK), Cyprus and Malta (both former British colonies). Many former British colonies in the region have always been LHT, inclu...
506. ...German colony, had been RHT for more than a century, but switched to LHT in 2009, making it the first territory in almost 30 years to change sides. The move was legislated in 2008 to allow Samoans to **use** cheaper vehicles imported from Australia, New Zealand, or Japan, and to harmonise with other South Pacific nations. A political party, The People's Party, was formed by the group People Against Switc...
507. ...there are cases where vehicles may be driven from LHT across a border into a RHT area. Such borders are mostly located in Africa and southern Asia. The Vienna Convention on Road Traffic regulates the **use** of foreign registered vehicles in the 78 countries that have ratified it. LHT Thailand has three RHT neighbours: Cambodia, Laos, and Myanmar. Most of its borders use a simple traffic light to do the...
508. ...ion on Road Traffic regulates the use of foreign registered vehicles in the 78 countries that have ratified it. LHT Thailand has three RHT neighbours: Cambodia, Laos, and Myanmar. Most of its borders **use** a simple traffic light to do the switch, but there are also interchanges that enable the switch while keeping up a continuous flow of traffic. There are six road border crossing points between Hong K...
509. ...be rearranged to suit the right-hand drive model. This may be done in the factory, after import, or as an after-market modification. Most low-beam headlamps produce an asymmetrical light suitable for **use** on only one side of the road. Low beam headlamps in LHT jurisdictions throw most of their light forward-leftward; those for RHT throw most of their light forward-rightward, thus illuminating obstacle...
510. ...forward-leftward; those for RHT throw most of their light forward-rightward, thus illuminating obstacles and road signs while minimising glare for oncoming traffic. In Europe, headlamps approved for **use** on one side of the road must be adaptable to produce adequate illumination with controlled glare for temporarily driving on the other side of the road. This may be achieved by affixing masking strips...
511. ...ft seat. However, helicopter practice tends to favour the right hand seat for the pilot-in-command, particularly when flying solo. Of the 195 countries currently recognised by the United Nations, 141 **use** RHT and 54 use LHT on roads in general. A country and its territories and dependencies are counted as one. Whichever directionality is listed first is the type that is used in general in the traffic...
512. ...r, helicopter practice tends to favour the right hand seat for the pilot-in-command, particularly when flying solo. Of the 195 countries currently recognised by the United Nations, 141 use RHT and 54 **use** LHT on roads in general. A country and its territories and dependencies are counted as one. Whichever directionality is listed first is the type that is used in general in the traffic category. Accor...
513. ...erly constitute 14% of the population, while they consume over one-third of drugs. People over 55 (or a similar cutoff age) are often excluded from trials because their greater health issues and drug **use** complicate data interpretation, and because they have different physiological capacity than younger people. Children and people with unrelated medical conditions are also frequently excluded. Pregnan...
514. ...re that the research is presented in plain language that is clear to the wider society and the specific groups it is most relevant for. Although early medical experimentation was performed often, the **use** of a control group to provide an accurate comparison for the demonstration of the intervention's efficacy was generally lacking. For instance, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, who campaigned for the introd...
515. ...allegedly from having contracted scurvy. John Woodall, an English military surgeon of the British East India Company, had recommended the consumption of citrus fruit from the 17th century, but their **use** did not become widespread. Lind conducted the first systematic clinical trial in 1747. He included a dietary supplement of an acidic quality in the experiment after two months at sea, when the ship w...
516. ...experiments replicated to identify sources of variation; blocking—to arrange experimental units into groups of units that are similar to each other, and thus reducing irrelevant sources of variation; **use** of factorial experiments—efficient at evaluating the effects and possible interactions of several independent factors. Of these, blocking and factorial design are seldom applied in clinical trials, b...
517. ...ases I–IV over many years, frequently involving a decade or longer. If the drug successfully passes through phases I, II, and III, it will usually be approved by the national regulatory authority for **use** in the general population. Phase IV trials are performed after the newly approved drug, diagnostic or device is marketed, providing assessment about risks, benefits, or best uses. A fundamental disti...
518. ...RB, as well as the sponsor and CRO. In the context of a clinical trial, quality typically refers to the absence of errors which can impact decision making, both during the conduct of the trial and in **use** of the trial results. An Interactional Justice Model may be used to test the effects of willingness to talk with a doctor about clinical trial enrollment. Results found that potential clinical trial...
519. ...lingness to talk about clinical trials with current care providers may be due to patients' independence from the doctor. Patients who are less likely to talk about clinical trials are more willing to **use** other sources of information to gain a better insight of alternative treatments. Clinical trial enrollment should be motivated to utilize websites and television advertising to inform the public abou...
520. ...enrollment should be motivated to utilize websites and television advertising to inform the public about clinical trial enrollment. The last decade has seen a proliferation of information technology **use** in the planning and conduct of clinical trials. Clinical trial management systems are often used by research sponsors or CROs to help plan and manage the operational aspects of a clinical trial, part...
521. ...dy is called the Institutional Review Board (IRB); in the EU, they are called Ethics committees. Most IRBs are located at the local investigator's hospital or institution, but some sponsors allow the **use** of a central (independent/for profit) IRB for investigators who work at smaller institutions. To be ethical, researchers must obtain the full and informed consent of participating human subjects. (On...
522. ...cts exists in many countries but its precise definition may still vary. Informed consent is clearly a 'necessary' condition for ethical conduct but does not 'ensure' ethical conduct. In compassionate **use** trials the latter becomes a particularly difficult problem. The final objective is to serve the community of patients or future patients in a best-possible and most responsible way. See also Expanded...
523. ...linical trial sites. In 2001, the editors of 12 major journals issued a joint editorial, published in each journal, on the control over clinical trials exerted by sponsors, particularly targeting the **use** of contracts which allow sponsors to review the studies prior to publication and withhold publication. They strengthened editorial restrictions to counter the effect. The editorial noted that contrac...
524. ...te in the study or not. The sponsor is also responsible for monitoring the results of the study as they come in from the various sites as the trial proceeds. In larger clinical trials, a sponsor will **use** the services of a data monitoring committee (DMC, known in the US as a data safety monitoring board). This independent group of clinicians and statisticians meets periodically to review the unblinded...
525. ...protocol, the consent(s), the data collection forms, and supporting documentation to the local IRB. Universities and most hospitals have in-house IRBs. Other researchers (such as in walk-in clinics) **use** independent IRBs. The IRB scrutinizes the study both for medical safety and for protection of the patients involved in the study, before it allows the researcher to begin the study. It may require ch...
526. ...regulatory-industry initiative on international harmonization named after 1990 as the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** (ICH) Currently, most clinical trial programs follow ICH guidelines, aimed at "ensuring that good quality, safe and effective medicines are developed and registered in the most efficient and cost-eff...
527. ...fficient and cost-effective manner. These activities are pursued in the interest of the consumer and public health, to prevent unnecessary duplication of clinical trials in humans and to minimize the **use** of animal testing without compromising the regulatory obligations of safety and effectiveness." Aggregating safety data across clinical trials during drug development is important because trials are...
528. ...ion. The cost of a study depends on many factors, especially the number of sites conducting the study, the number of patients involved, and whether the study treatment is already approved for medical **use**. The expenses incurred by a pharmaceutical company in administering a Phase III orIV clinical trial may include, among others: These expenses are incurred over several years. In the US, sponsors may...
529. ...ontract research organizations working on their behalf, try to find sites with qualified personnel as well as access to patients who could participate in the trial. Working with those sites, they may **use** various recruitment strategies, including patient databases, newspaper and radio advertisements, flyers, posters in places the patients might go (such as doctor's offices), and personal recruitment o...
530. ...bortifacients (substances that induce abortion) and were instead used to cure amenorrhoea (a lack of period). There are several different types of literature in the humoral tradition that propose the **use** of herbal potions or suppositories to provoke menstruation. Giulia Tofana (1581-1651) was an Italian poisoner, known as the inventor of the famous poison Aqua Tofana. Born in Sicily, she invented and...
531. ...orn and knowledge of potions often becomes a factor for many of the characters. Throughout the course of the story, several characters take Polyjuice Potion to impersonate other characters, while the **use** of Felix Felicus potion in Book 6 helps Harry Potter gain vital information about horcruxes. In the 11th century, plants belonging to the nightshade family Solanaceae were often used as an ingredient...
532. ...aving the potential to cause profound confusion and dysphoria characterised by realistic hallucinations of an unpleasant character. Classical and Renaissance authors have left certain accounts of the **use** of the plant by witches in the preparation of potions intended variously to excite love, cause insanity or even kill. Scopolamine, a toxic, deliriant alkaloid present in (and named after) "Scopolia c...
533. ...coefficients, and higher strength compared to open-cell-structured foams. All types of foam are widely used as core material in sandwich-structured composite materials. The earliest known engineering **use** of cellular solids is with wood, which in its dry form is a closed-cell foam composed of lignin, cellulose, and air. From the early 20th century, various types of specially manufactured solid foams c...
534. ...lar solids is with wood, which in its dry form is a closed-cell foam composed of lignin, cellulose, and air. From the early 20th century, various types of specially manufactured solid foams came into **use**. The low density of these foams makes them excellent as thermal insulators and flotation devices and their lightness and compressibility make them ideal as packing materials and stuffings. An example...
535. ...w density of these foams makes them excellent as thermal insulators and flotation devices and their lightness and compressibility make them ideal as packing materials and stuffings. An example of the **use** of azodicarbonamide as a blowing agent is found in the manufacture of vinyl (PVC) and EVA-PE foams, where it plays a role in the formation of air bubbles by breaking down into gas at high temperature...
536. ...promoted as a topical ointment for its healing properties. Vaseline has been an American brand of petroleum jelly since 1870. After petroleum jelly became a medicine-chest staple, consumers began to **use** it for cosmetic purposes and for many ailments including toenail fungus, genital rashes (non-STI), nosebleeds, diaper rash, and common colds. Its folkloric medicinal value as a "cure-all" has since b...
537. ...rred to as mineral oil. Marco Polo in 1273 described the oil exportation of Baku oil by hundreds of camels and ships for burning and as an ointment for treating mange. Native Americans discovered the **use** of petroleum jelly for protecting and healing skin. Sophisticated oil pits had been built as early as 1415–1450 in Western Pennsylvania. In 1859, workers operating the United States's first oil rigs...
538. .... This pertains to the processing and handling of the petroleum jelly so it is suitable for medicinal and personal-care applications. Petroleum jelly has lubricating and coating properties, including **use** on dry lips and dry skin. Below are some examples of the uses of petroleum jelly. Vaseline brand First Aid Petroleum Jelly, or "carbolated petroleum jelly" containing phenol to give the jelly additio...
539. ...a sunscreen, it provides protection against ultraviolet rays. The American Academy of Dermatology recommends keeping skin injuries moist with petroleum jelly to reduce scarring. A verified medicinal **use** is to protect and prevent moisture loss of the skin of a patient in the initial post-operative period following laser skin resurfacing. Petroleum jelly is used extensively by otorhinolaryngologists—e...
540. ...nt, and to combat nasal crusting. Large studies have found petroleum jelly applied to the nose for short durations to have no significant side effects. Historically, it was also consumed for internal **use** and even promoted as "Vaseline confection". Most petroleum jelly today is used as an ingredient in skin lotions and cosmetics, providing various types of skin care and protection by minimizing fricti...
541. ...l lubricant, because it does not dry out like water-based lubricants, and has a distinctive "feel", different from that of K-Y and related methylcellulose products. However, it is not recommended for **use** with latex condoms during sexual activity, as it increases the chance of rupture. In addition, petroleum jelly is difficult for the body to break down naturally, and may cause vaginal health problems...
542. ...lorates due to it acting as a plasticizer and a fuel source. An example of this is Cheddite C which consists of a ratio of 9:1, KClO to petroleum jelly. This mixture is unable to detonate without the **use** of a blasting cap. It is also used as a stabiliser in the manufacture of the propellant Cordite. Petroleum jelly can be used to fill copper or fibre-optic cables using plastic insulation to prevent t...
543. ...polyaromatics in products containing mineral oils. Vaseline products contained the most MOAH of all tested cosmetics (up to 9%). Based on the 2015 results, Stiftung Warentest warned consumers not to **use** Vaseline or any product that is based on mineral oils for lip care. A study published in 2017 found levels of MOAH levels to be up to 1% in petroleum jelly and likewise to be less than 1% in petroleu...
544. ...cryptography. Building on the work of al-Khalil (717–786), Al-Kindi's book entitled "Manuscript on Deciphering Cryptographic Messages" gave rise to the birth of cryptanalysis, was the earliest known **use** of statistical inference, and introduced several new methods of breaking ciphers, notably frequency analysis. He was able to create a scale that would enable doctors to gauge the effectiveness of the...
545. ...bers, the harmony of numbers, lines and multiplication with numbers, relative quantities, measuring proportion and time, and numerical procedures and cancellation. He also wrote four volumes, "On the **Use** of the Hindu Numerals" ( "Kitāb fī Isti`māl al-'A`dād al-Hindīyyah") which contributed greatly to diffusion of the Hindu system of numeration in the Middle-East and the West. In geometry, among other...
546. ...of numeration in the Middle-East and the West. In geometry, among other works, he wrote on the theory of parallels. Also related to geometry were two works on optics. One of the ways in which he made **use** of mathematics as a philosopher was to attempt to disprove the eternity of the world by demonstrating that actual infinity is a mathematical and logical absurdity. Al-Kindi is credited with developin...
547. ...til we account for all symbols of the cryptogram we want to solve. Al-Kindi was influenced by the work of al-Khalil (717–786), who wrote the "Book of Cryptographic Messages", which contains the first **use** of permutations and combinations to list all possible Arabic words with and without vowels. In a treatise entitled as "Risala fi l-Illa al-Failali l-Madd wa l-Fazr" ("Treatise on the Efficient Cause...
548. ...ed after the Black Death era.  In the 20th century, camphor was used as an analeptic by injection, and to induce seizures in schizophrenic people in an attempt to treat psychosis. Camphor has limited **use** in veterinary medicine by intramuscular injection to treat breathing difficulties in horses. Camphor is commonly applied as a topical medication as a skin cream or ointment to relieve itching from in...
549. ...humans. The Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL) for camphor in ambient air is 2 mg/m at exposure time (TWA) not more than 8 hours. 200 mg/m is considered a very dangerous concentration (IDLH). When its **use** in the nascent chemical industries (discussed below) greatly increased the volume of demand in the late 19th century, potential for changes in supply and in price followed. In 1911 Robert Kennedy Dun...
550. ...tip or edge of the device and penetrates the recipient's skin, to deliver the medication via intramuscular injection. People to whom epinephrine autoinjectors are prescribed need to be trained how to **use** the specific device prescribed. The rate of unintentional injections using these devices is unknown but a 2009 review found that the rate is increasing. Unintentional injections are delivered to a fi...
551. ...hnology in Bethesda, Maryland, US by Sheldon Kaplan and was first approved for marketing by the FDA in 1987. One of the people who helped in making the EpiPen was Richard B. Toren. He had the idea to **use** this technology for allergic reactions because his daughter was allergic to bees and had to carry around a complex kit if she was ever stung. He then helped to slightly alter the technology in order...
552. ...the autoinjector, called "Auvi-Q" after the FDA required a name change from "e-cue". The device is equipped with a sound chip to provide electronic voice instructions to guide the user in the proper **use** of the device. In 2012, Mylan launched a program called "EpiPen4Schools" to sell EpiPens in bulk and with discounts to schools; to participate in the program schools had to agree not to buy epinephri...
553. ...ate Boards of Education launched a policy initiative designed to "help state boards of education as they develop student health policies regarding anaphylaxis and epinephrine auto-injector access and **use**", and advocated for state laws protecting school from legal liability for stocking and using epinephrine autoinjectors. Gayle Conelly Manchin, mother of Mylan's CEO, Heather Bresch, had become presid...
554. ...ject to any validation by regulatory agencies. Autoinjector An autoinjector (or auto-injector) is a medical device for injection of a premeasured dose of a particular drug. Most autoinjectors are one-**use**, disposable, spring-loaded syringes (prefilled syringes). By design, autoinjectors are easy to use and are intended for self-administration by patients, administration by untrained personnel, or easy...
555. ...medical device for injection of a premeasured dose of a particular drug. Most autoinjectors are one-use, disposable, spring-loaded syringes (prefilled syringes). By design, autoinjectors are easy to **use** and are intended for self-administration by patients, administration by untrained personnel, or easy use by healthcare professionals; they can also overcome the hesitation associated with self-admini...
556. ...disposable, spring-loaded syringes (prefilled syringes). By design, autoinjectors are easy to use and are intended for self-administration by patients, administration by untrained personnel, or easy **use** by healthcare professionals; they can also overcome the hesitation associated with self-administration using a needle. The site of injection depends on the drug, but it typically is administered into...
557. ...08–1:2022) for needle-based injection systems and found to cost less than mass manufactured systems. Designs exist for both intramuscular and subcutaneous injection. Disposable autoinjectors commonly **use** a pre-loaded spring as a power source. This spring and the associated mechanical components form a one-shot linear actuator. When triggered the actuator drives a three-step sequence: Some injectors a...
558. ...tuator drives a three-step sequence: Some injectors are triggered by simply pushing the nose ring against the injection site. In these designs, the protective cap is the primary safety. Other designs **use** a safety mechanism similar to nail guns: The injection is triggered by pushing the nose ring against the injection site and simultaneously, while applying pressure, pushing a trigger button at the re...
559. ...Another design has a shape and size of a smartphone which can be put into a pocket. This design also has a retractable needle and automated voice instructions to assist the users on how to correctly **use** the autoinjector. The "Auvi-Q" epinephrine autoinjector uses this design. A newer variant of the autoinjector is the gas jet autoinjector, which contains a cylinder of pressurized gas and propels a f...
560. ...n 1% for formula_2, within 3% for formula_3 and within 9% formula_4. With increasing Reynolds numbers, Stokes law begins to break down due to the increasing importance of fluid inertia, requiring the **use** of empirical solutions to calculate drag forces. Defining a drag coefficient, formula_5, as the ratio of the force experienced by the particle divided by the impact pressure of the fluid, a coefficie...
561. ...cancer, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common lower respiratory disease that can be caused by exposure to harmful chemicals, or prolonged **use** of tobacco. This disease is chronic and progressive, the damage to the lungs is irreversible and eventually fatal. COPD destroys the alveoli, and lung tissue which makes breathing very difficult, cau...
562. ...column), the clearer the water. Of course water alone produces some attenuation, and any substances dissolved in the water that produce color can attenuate some wavelengths. Modern instruments do not **use** candles, but this approach of attenuation of a light beam through a column of water should be calibrated and reported in JTUs. The propensity of particles to scatter a light beam focused on them is n...
563. ...ansparency of the water (inversely related to turbidity). The Secchi disk has the advantages of integrating turbidity over depth (where variable turbidity layers are present), being quick and easy to **use**, and inexpensive. It can provide a rough indication of the depth of the euphotic zone with a 3-fold division of the "Secchi depth", however this cannot be used in shallow waters where the disk can st...
564. ...parameters have been introduced, including the Linke turbidity factor (T). Governments have set standards on the allowable turbidity in drinking water. In the United States, public water systems that **use** conventional or direct filtration methods must not have a turbidity higher than 1.0 NTU at the plant outlet and all samples for turbidity must be less than or equal to 0.3 NTU for at least 95 percent...
565. ...must not have a turbidity higher than 1.0 NTU at the plant outlet and all samples for turbidity must be less than or equal to 0.3 NTU for at least 95 percent of the samples in any month. Systems that **use** filtration other than the conventional or direct filtration must follow state limits, which must include turbidity at no time exceeding 5 NTU. Many drinking water utilities strive to achieve levels a...
566. ...h light reflects for a given density of particles is dependent upon properties of the particles such as their shape, color, and reflectivity. Nephelometers are calibrated to a known particulate, then **use** environmental factors (k-factors) to compensate lighter or darker colored dusts accordingly. K-factor is determined by the user by running the nephelometer next to an air sampling pump and comparing...
567. ...of a standardized inoculum (McFarland suspension) for antimicrobial susceptibility testing. Gas-phase nephelometers are also used in the detection of smoke and other particles of combustion. In such **use**, the apparatus is referred to as an aspirated smoke detector. These have the capability to detect extremely low particle concentrations (to 0.005%) and are therefore highly suitable to protecting sen...
568. ...ion (FDA) requires generics to be identical to or within an acceptable bioequivalent range of their brand-name counterparts, with respect to pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties. (The FDA's **use** of the word "identical" is a legal interpretation, not literal.) Biopharmaceuticals, such as monoclonal antibodies, differ biologically from small-molecule drugs. Biosimilars have active pharmaceutic...
569. ...es that distinguish drugs between and within classes and suggest their action. When a pharmaceutical company first markets a drug, it is usually under a patent that, until it expires, the company can **use** to exclude competitors by suing them for patent infringement. Pharmaceutical companies that develop new drugs generally only invest in drug candidates with strong patent protection as a strategy to r...
570. ...ith a new chemical entity, was estimated to be as much as US$800 million in 2003 and US$2.6 billion in 2014. Drug companies that bring new products have several product line extension strategies they **use** to extend their exclusivity, some of which are seen as gaming the system and labeled "evergreening" by critics, but at some point there is no patent protection available. For as long as a drug patent...
571. ...s re-enter the market with new stock. The NHS spent about £4.3 billion on generic medicines in 2016–17. In 2012, 84 percent of prescriptions in the US were filled with generic drugs, and in 2014, the **use** of generic drugs in the United States led to US$254 billion in health care savings. In the mid-2010s the generics industry began transitioning to the end of an era of giant patent cliffs in the pharm...
572. ...proved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations list and annotates the list to show the equivalence between the reference-listed drug and the generic. The FDA also recognizes drugs that **use** the same ingredients with different bioavailability and divides them into therapeutic equivalence groups. For example, as of 2006, diltiazem hydrochloride had four equivalence groups, all using the s...
573. ...biosimilars. Pharmacy Pharmacy is the science and practice of discovering, producing, preparing, dispensing, reviewing and monitoring medications, aiming to ensure the safe, effective, and affordable **use** of medicines. It is a miscellaneous science as it links health sciences with pharmaceutical sciences and natural sciences. The professional practice is becoming more clinically oriented as most of th...
574. ...cations for safety and efficacy, and providing drug information with patient counselling. Pharmacists, therefore, are experts on drug therapy and are the primary health professionals who optimize the **use** of medication for the benefit of the patients. An establishment in which pharmacy (in the first sense) is practiced is called a "pharmacy" (this term is more common in the United States) or "chemists...
575. ...ersonnel worldwide. Pharmacists are healthcare professionals with specialized education and training who perform various roles to ensure optimal health outcomes for their patients through the quality **use** of medicines. Pharmacists may also be small business proprietors, owning the pharmacy in which they practice. Since pharmacists know about the mode of action of a particular drug, and its metabolism...
576. ...harmacists and other health professionals by performing a variety of pharmacy-related functions, including dispensing prescription drugs and other medical devices to patients and instructing on their **use**. They may also perform administrative duties in pharmaceutical practice, such as reviewing prescription requests with medic's offices and insurance companies to ensure correct medications are provide...
577. ...ion of pharmacists. Although they may perform, under supervision, most dispensing, compounding and other tasks, they are not generally allowed to perform the role of counseling patients on the proper **use** of their medications. Some states have a legally mandated pharmacist-to-pharmacy technician ratio. Dispensing assistants are commonly referred to as "dispensers" and in community pharmacies perform l...
578. ...pharmacy services on patient-care outcomes and patient safety require hospital pharmacies to perform at the highest level possible. Pharmacists provide direct patient care services that optimize the **use** of medication and promotes health, wellness, and disease prevention. Clinical pharmacists care for patients in all health care settings, but the clinical pharmacy movement initially began inside hosp...
579. ...ppropriateness of drug therapy (e.g., drug choice, dose, route, frequency, and duration of therapy) and its efficacy. Research shows that pharmacist led strategies reduce errors related to medication **use**. The pharmacist must also consider potential drug interactions, adverse drug reactions, and patient drug allergies while they design and initiate a drug therapy plan. Since the emergence of modern cl...
580. ...h and drug therapy. Pharmacocybernetics (also known as pharma-cybernetics, cybernetic pharmacy, and cyber pharmacy) is an emerging field that describes the science of supporting drugs and medications **use** through the application and evaluation of informatics and internet technologies, so as to improve the pharmaceutical care of patients. The word "pharmacy" is derived from Old French "farmacie" "subst...
581. ...e United Kingdom, pharmacists who undertake additional training are obtaining prescribing rights and this is because of pharmacy education. They are also being paid for by the government for medicine **use** reviews. In Scotland, the pharmacist can write prescriptions for Scottish registered patients of their regular medications, for the majority of drugs, except for controlled drugs, when the patient is...
582. ...gust 1998. The industrial complex was composed of four buildings. It was the largest pharmaceutical factory in Khartoum and employed over 300 workers, producing medicine both for human and veterinary **use**. The factory was destroyed in 1998 by a missile attack launched by the United States, killing one employee and wounding eleven. The U.S. government claimed that the factory was used for the processin...
583. ...mass distribution; a population of particles can be described by size, surface area, and/or mass distribution; and thin films can be described by film thickness distribution. IUPAC has deprecated the **use** of the term polydispersity index, having replaced it with the term "dispersity", represented by the symbol Đ (pronounced D-stroke) which can refer to either molecular mass or degree of polymerization...
584. ...hat are similar in length. This technique is also known as living polymerization. It is used commercially for the production of block copolymers. Uniform collections can be easily created through the **use** of template-based synthesis, a common method of synthesis in nanotechnology. A polymer material is denoted by the term disperse, or non-uniform, if its chain lengths vary over a wide range of molecul...
585. ...a form of green chemistry. However, micelle formation may also inhibit chemical reactions, such as when reacting molecules form micelles that shield a molecular component vulnerable to oxidation. The **use** of cationic micelles of cetrimonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, and cetylpyridinium chloride can accelerate chemical reactions between negatively charged compounds (such as DNA or Coenzyme A) in...
586. ...an injection, with intramuscular (into a muscle) and intravenous (into a vein) being the most common. A hypodermic syringe has the ability to retain liquid and blood in it up to years after the last **use** and a great deal of caution should be taken to use a new syringe every time. The hypodermic needle also serves an important role in research environments where sterile conditions are required. The hy...
587. ...nd intravenous (into a vein) being the most common. A hypodermic syringe has the ability to retain liquid and blood in it up to years after the last use and a great deal of caution should be taken to **use** a new syringe every time. The hypodermic needle also serves an important role in research environments where sterile conditions are required. The hypodermic needle significantly reduces contamination...
588. ...dermic syringe on Ms. Margaret Cox in Ireland on June 3rd, 1844. Dr. Wood can be largely credited with the popularization and acceptance of injection as a medical technique, as well as the widespread **use** and acceptance of the hypodermic needle. The basic technology of the hypodermic needle has stayed largely unchanged since the 19th century, but as the years progressed and medical and chemical knowle...
589. ...designed and tailored for very particular uses. Hypodermic needles remain essential to large volume administration or exchange in settings of trauma or dialysis. The trend of needle specification for **use** began in the 1920s, particularly for the administration of insulin to diabetics. The onset of World War II spurred the early development of partially disposable syringes for the administration of mor...
590. ...sure the safety of medical workers in particular. These controls were implemented on the needles themselves, such as retractable needles, but also in the handling of used needles, particularly in the **use** of hard-surface disposal receptacles found in every medical office today. By 2008, all-plastic needles were in production and in limited use. One version was made of Vectra (plastic) aromatic liquid...
591. ...also in the handling of used needles, particularly in the use of hard-surface disposal receptacles found in every medical office today. By 2008, all-plastic needles were in production and in limited **use**. One version was made of Vectra (plastic) aromatic liquid crystal polymer tapered from 1.2 mm at the hub to 0.72 mm at the tip (equivalent to 22 gauge metal needle), with an ID/OD ratio of 70%. Hypod...
592. ...e is the Birmingham gauge (also known as the Stubs Iron Wire Gauge); the French gauge is used mainly for catheters. Various needle lengths are available for any given gauge. Needles in common medical **use** range from 7 gauge (the largest) to 34 (the smallest). 21-gauge needles are most commonly used for drawing blood for testing purposes, and 16- or 17-gauge needles are most commonly used for blood don...
593. ...n injections a day. It also occurs with patients who have asthma or other severe allergies. Such patients may need to take desensitization injections or they may need to carry injectable medicines to **use** for first aid in case of a severe allergic reaction. In the latter case, such patients often carry a syringe loaded with epinephrine (e.g. EpiPen), diphenhydramine (e.g. Benadryl), or dexamethasone....
594. ...rmed Marion Laboratories with a $5,000 investment. The company was originally run out of his house, and there were four employees, consisting of Kauffman and his close friends. He reportedly chose to **use** his middle name, rather than his surname, in order to not appear to be a one-man operation. With Kauffman as chairman, Marion Laboratories had revenues of $930 million in 1988, the year before it mer...
595. ...me in 2018. In 1988, Kauffman launched Project Choice to the Westport High School Class of 1992. Project Choice promised to fund post-secondary education to all students who stayed in school, did not **use** drugs, did not become pregnant, and were committed to being an upstanding citizen in the community. To be eligible for the program, parents also had to agree to be involved in their child's education...
596. ...y applying it to multiple sites simultaneously. The technique was pioneered by Evan O'Neill Kane in 1900. Kane was looking for a technique that was as fast as intravenous infusion but not so risky to **use** on trauma patients in unhygienic conditions in the field. Intramuscular injection Intramuscular injection, often abbreviated IM, is the injection of a substance into a muscle. In medicine, it is one...
597. ...sadvantages of intramuscular administration include skill and technique required, pain from injection, anxiety or fear (especially in children), and difficulty in self-administration which limits its **use** in outpatient medicine. Vaccines, especially inactivated vaccines, are commonly administered via intramuscular injection. However, it has been estimated that for every vaccine injected intramuscularl...
598. ...erapy. This can include medications such as antibiotics, immunoglobulin, and hormones such as testosterone and medroxyprogesterone. In a case of severe allergic reaction, or anaphylaxis, a person may **use** an epinephrine autoinjector to self-administer epinephrine into the muscle. Because an intramuscular injection can be used to administer many types of medications, specific contraindications depend i...
599. ...ection site, depending on the specific medication and amount administered. There is also a risk of nerve or vascular injury if a nerve or blood vessel is inadvertently hit during injection. If single-**use** or sterilized equipment is not used, there is the risk of transmission of infectious disease between users, or to a practitioner who inadvertently injures themselves with a used needle, termed a need...
600. ...eltoid muscle in the outer portion of the upper arm is used for injections of small volume, usually equal to or less than 1 mL. This includes most intramuscular vaccinations. It is not recommended to **use** the deltoid for repeated injections due to its small area, which makes it difficult to space out injections from each other. The deltoid site is located by locating the lower edge of the acromion pro...
601. ...upside down triangle with its base at the acromion process and its midpoint in line with the armpit. An injection into the deltoid muscle is commonly administered using a 1-inch long needle, but may **use** a -inch long needle for younger people or very frail elderly people. The ventrogluteal site on the hip is used for injections which require a larger volume to be administered, greater than 1 mL, and...
602. ...site do not penetrate deep enough under the skin to be correctly administered in the muscle. While current evidence-based practice recommends against using this site, many healthcare providers still **use** this site, often due to a lack of knowledge about alternative sites for injection.  This site is located by dividing the buttock into four using a cross shape, and administering the injection in the...
603. ...s) may have its dosage adjusted according to measurements of its blood levels in the person taking it. This may be achieved through therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) protocols. TDM is recommended for **use** in the treatment of psychiatric disorders with lithium due to its narrow therapeutic range. Based on efficacy and safety of drugs, there are two types of therapeutic index: formula_1 It is desirous f...
604. ...n in others, increasing efficacy and lowering toxicity. Sometimes the term safety ratio is used, particularly when referring to psychoactive drugs used for non-therapeutic purposes, e.g. recreational **use**. In such cases, the "effective" dose is the amount and frequency that produces the "desired" effect, which can vary, and can be greater or less than the therapeutically effective dose. The "Certain S...
605. ...ocedures since there are few side effects from the treatment and the radiation exposure to the general public can be kept within a safe limit. In some centers the nuclear medicine department may also **use** implanted capsules of isotopes (brachytherapy) to treat cancer. The history of nuclear medicine contains contributions from scientists across different disciplines in physics, chemistry, engineering,...
606. ...nuclear medicine. This can probably be best placed between the discovery of artificial radioactivity in 1934 and the production of radionuclides by Oak Ridge National Laboratory for medicine-related **use**, in 1946. The origins of this medical idea date back as far as the mid-1920s in Freiburg, Germany, when George de Hevesy made experiments with radionuclides administered to rats, thus displaying meta...
607. ...e in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) by Massachusetts General Hospital's Dr. Saul Hertz and Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Dr. Arthur Roberts, described the successful **use** of treating Graves' Disease with radioactive iodine (RAI) was published. Additionally, Sam Seidlin. brought further development in the field describing a successful treatment of a patient with thyroi...
608. ...ent with thyroid cancer metastases using radioiodine (I-131). These articles are considered by many historians as the most important articles ever published in nuclear medicine. Although the earliest **use** of I-131 was devoted to therapy of thyroid cancer, its use was later expanded to include imaging of the thyroid gland, quantification of the thyroid function, and therapy for hyperthyroidism. Among t...
609. ...). These articles are considered by many historians as the most important articles ever published in nuclear medicine. Although the earliest use of I-131 was devoted to therapy of thyroid cancer, its **use** was later expanded to include imaging of the thyroid gland, quantification of the thyroid function, and therapy for hyperthyroidism. Among the many radionuclides that were discovered for medical-use,...
610. ...use was later expanded to include imaging of the thyroid gland, quantification of the thyroid function, and therapy for hyperthyroidism. Among the many radionuclides that were discovered for medical-**use**, none were as important as the discovery and development of Technetium-99m. It was first discovered in 1937 by C. Perrier and E. Segre as an artificial element to fill space number 43 in the Periodic...
611. ...and E. Segre as an artificial element to fill space number 43 in the Periodic Table. The development of a generator system to produce Technetium-99m in the 1960s became a practical method for medical **use**. Today, Technetium-99m is the most utilized element in nuclear medicine and is employed in a wide variety of nuclear medicine imaging studies. Widespread clinical use of nuclear medicine began in the...
612. ...e a practical method for medical use. Today, Technetium-99m is the most utilized element in nuclear medicine and is employed in a wide variety of nuclear medicine imaging studies. Widespread clinical **use** of nuclear medicine began in the early 1950s, as knowledge expanded about radionuclides, detection of radioactivity, and using certain radionuclides to trace biochemical processes. Pioneering works b...
613. ...d, and in 1974, the American Osteopathic Board of Nuclear Medicine was established, cementing nuclear medicine as a stand-alone medical specialty. In the 1980s, radiopharmaceuticals were designed for **use** in diagnosis of heart disease. The development of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), around the same time, led to three-dimensional reconstruction of the heart and establishment of t...
614. ...er directly from their decay or indirectly through electron–positron annihilation, while the cell-damaging properties of beta particles are used in therapeutic applications. Refined radionuclides for **use** in nuclear medicine are derived from fission or fusion processes in nuclear reactors, which produce radionuclides with longer half-lives, or cyclotrons, which produce radionuclides with shorter half-...
615. ...e of safe and effective nuclear medicinal techniques is a key focus of Medical Physics. Different countries around the world maintain regulatory frameworks that are responsible for the management and **use** of radionuclides in different medical settings. For example, in the US, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have guidelines in place for hospitals to fo...
616. ...on in 2015. One major reason for high prescription drug prices in the United States relative to other countries is the inability of government-granted monopolies in the American health care sector to **use** their bargaining power to negotiate lower prices, and the American payer ends up subsidizing the world's R&D spending on drugs. According to a comprehensive 2021 review of the existing literature, th...
617. ...tion drugs in the United States, have generated a great deal of debate. It is becoming increasingly difficult, at both the individual and societal level, to afford to pay for such medications, as the **use** of specialty pharmaceuticals continues to increase along with their cost, which had, through 2015, risen faster than inflation for many consecutive years (AARP 2015). In 2015, 1-2% of the US populati...
618. ...tion medications, requiring an additional $17.7 billion to be spent annually on avoidable medical costs due to health complications. The high cost of prescription drugs has required many Americans to **use** cost-cutting measures and has also led to reformed healthcare legislation. Another common way that people saved money, was to skip or reduce dosages or fail to fill a prescription entirely due to cos...
619. ...escription drug insurance through Medicare Part D was associated with an 8% decrease in the number of hospital admissions, a 7% decrease in Medicare expenditures, and a 12% decrease in total resource **use**. The "Washington Post" wrote in 2003 that "U.S. Customs estimated 10 million U.S. citizens brought in medications at land borders each year. An additional 2 million packages of pharmaceuticals arrive...
620. ...4 were six times more expensive at launch, when adjusted for inflation, than drugs introduced in 2010. Once these new drugs are introduced during this period of market exclusivity, these manufactures **use** patent protection and other exclusivity programs to continue to raise the price of the drug from year to year even though there are no significant improvements to the drug. Between 2014 and 2015 alon...
621. ...as been estimated at $40 billion per year. Many people are concerned that pharmaceutical rebates increase out-of-posts and overall insurance costs. Other critics also argue that drug manufactures may **use** rebates to incentivize insurance companies to get preferred tiered placement on drug formularies. The actual rebate amount can be influenced by many factors such as size of insurance clientele or the...
622. ...drug costs. Programs like GoodRx and RxSaver help the consumer navigate prescription drug costs in order to obtain affordable drugs. Patients can obtain coupons online or at their doctor's office and **use** them to reduce their co-pays for a given prescription medication. For certain specialty drugs (most injectables and biologic agents), drug coupons have been found to save patients as much as $6 of ev...
623. ...f provincial and private insurance plans. These plans prevents price inflation through formulary management, independent clinical review of new products, reference-based pricing, the LCA, and limited **use** program. In reviewing formularies, the drug program reviews the therapeutic advantage of one product over the existing formulary, and only adds new drugs if program costs are unchanged. The reference...
624. ...a to evaluate the therapeutic discrepancies between drugs. The LCA, or low-cost alternative program establishes the price of generics for payment regardless if brand or genetics are used. The limited **use** program requires prior authorization for specific drugs, and restricts reimbursements to the approved rationale of prior authorizations (i.e. patients who have failed previous agents for the same ind...
625. ...ol can also have damaging effects on some aromatic compounds. Ether and propylene glycol based tinctures are not suitable for internal consumption, although they are used in preparations for external **use**, such as personal care creams and ointments. Some examples that were formerly common in medicine include: Examples of spirits include: Suspension (chemistry) In chemistry, a suspension is a heterogen...
626. ...ded throughout the bulk of the solvent, left floating around freely in the medium. The internal phase (solid) is dispersed throughout the external phase (fluid) through mechanical agitation, with the **use** of certain excipients or suspending agents. An example of a suspension would be sand in water. The suspended particles are visible under a microscope and will settle over time if left undisturbed. Th...
627. ...ensions is the value of the zeta potential exhibited by suspended solids. This parameter indicates the magnitude of interparticle electrostatic repulsion and is commonly analyzed to determine how the **use** of adsorbates and pH modification affect particle repulsion and suspension stabilization or destabilization. The kinetic process of destabilisation can be rather long (up to several months or even ye...
628. ...nsion stabilization or destabilization. The kinetic process of destabilisation can be rather long (up to several months or even years for some products) and it is often required for the formulator to **use** further accelerating methods in order to reach reasonable development time for new product design. Thermal methods are the most commonly used and consists in increasing temperature to accelerate dest...
629. ...m of "recipere") meaning "take". Prescription drugs are often dispensed together with a monograph (in Europe, a Patient Information Leaflet or PIL) that gives detailed information about the drug. The **use** of prescription drugs has been increasing since the 1960s. In Australia, the Standard for the Uniform Scheduling of Medicines and Poisons (SUSMP) governs the manufacture and supply of drugs with seve...
630. ...payments are compulsory and can be discounted by pharmacies up to a maximum of A$1.00 at cost to the pharmacy. In the United Kingdom, the Medicines Act 1968 and the Prescription Only Medicines (Human **Use**) Order 1997 contain regulations that cover the supply of sale, use, prescribing and production of medicines. There are three categories of medicine: The simple possession of a prescription-only medic...
631. ...maximum of A$1.00 at cost to the pharmacy. In the United Kingdom, the Medicines Act 1968 and the Prescription Only Medicines (Human Use) Order 1997 contain regulations that cover the supply of sale, **use**, prescribing and production of medicines. There are three categories of medicine: The simple possession of a prescription-only medicine without a prescription is legal unless it is covered by the Mis...
632. ...st psychologists, and social workers, are not authorized to prescribe legend drugs. The federal Controlled Substances Act (CSA) was enacted in 1970. It regulates manufacture, importation, possession, **use**, and distribution of "controlled" substances, which are drugs with potential for abuse or addiction. The legislation classifies these drugs into five schedules, with varying qualifications for each s...
633. ...that does not need care from a healthcare professional if have been proven to meet higher safety standards for self-medication by patients. Often, a lower strength of a drug will be approved for OTC **use**, but higher strengths require a prescription to be obtained; a notable case is ibuprofen, which has been widely available as an OTC pain killer since the mid-1980s, but it is available by prescriptio...
634. ...ot be made, the consumer must make informed decisions when purchasing such products. By law, American pharmacies operated by "membership clubs" such as Costco and Sam's Club must allow non-members to **use** their pharmacy services and may not charge more for these services than they charge as their members. Physicians may legally prescribe drugs for uses other than those specified in the FDA approval, k...
635. ...rvices and may not charge more for these services than they charge as their members. Physicians may legally prescribe drugs for uses other than those specified in the FDA approval, known as off-label **use**. Drug companies, however, are prohibited from marketing their drugs for off-label uses. Some prescription drugs are commonly abused, particularly those marketed as analgesics, including fentanyl (Dur...
636. ...uncil. Prescriber education guidelines as well as patient education, prescription drug monitoring programs and regulation of pain clinics are regulatory tactics which have been used to curtail opioid **use** and misuse. The expiration date, required in several countries, specifies the date up to which the manufacturer guarantees the full potency and safety of a drug. In the United States, expiration date...
637. ...which the manufacturer guarantees the full potency and safety of a drug. In the United States, expiration dates are determined by regulations established by the FDA. The FDA advises consumers not to **use** products after their expiration dates. A study conducted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration covered over 100 drugs, prescription and over-the-counter. The results showed that about 90% of them...
638. ...ines in 2007 to inform consumers should dispose of prescription drugs. When medications do not include specific disposal instructions, patients should not flush medications in the toilet, but instead **use** medication take-back programs to reduce the amount of pharmaceutical waste in sewage and landfills. If no take-back programs are available, prescription drugs can be discarded in household trash afte...
639. ...ciety's supporters are golden unicorns, and its crest is a rhinoceros. The unicorns may have been a compliment to James I, and the horns of unicorns and of the rhinoceros are reputed to be of medical **use**. The illustration of the crest in the Grant is based on Dürer's 1515 depiction of a rhinoceros, an animal which he had never seen but which he drew from a description, the dorsal horn may have been i...
640. ...ated with a peer. This is specific and unusual, although it is not unique (peers' helmets are also borne with some apparent authority by the Fishmongers', Goldsmiths' and Clockmakers' companies). The **use** of the term "society" rather than the usual "company" is purely traditional, though – the charter and grant themselves use both terms, as do grants to other City companies (including the Bowyers, Fra...
641. ...authority by the Fishmongers', Goldsmiths' and Clockmakers' companies). The use of the term "society" rather than the usual "company" is purely traditional, though – the charter and grant themselves **use** both terms, as do grants to other City companies (including the Bowyers, Framework Knitters and Fanmakers). The Society is based at Apothecaries' Hall in Blackfriars, London. The building, originally...
642. ...on their website. In 2002, the Archive received Heritage Lottery funding.  Today the Archive is active with a "Friends of the Archives" group and a number of events throughout the year.  Many people **use** it to make enquiries regarding family history, the history of the Apothecaries' Society and other historical activities. Due to its historical holdings, the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries is a me...
643. ...sma calcium (hypercalcemia) is associated with cardiac arrhythmias and decreased neuromuscular excitability. One cause of hypercalcemia is a condition known as hyperparathyroidism. Some invertebrates **use** calcium compounds for building their exoskeleton (shells and carapaces) or endoskeleton (echinoderm plates and poriferan calcareous spicules). When abscisic acid signals the guard cells, free Ca ions...
644. ...nent of plant cell walls and cell membranes, and are used as cations to balance organic anions in the plant vacuole. The Ca concentration of the vacuole may reach millimolar levels. The most striking **use** of Ca ions as a structural element in algae occurs in the marine coccolithophores, which use Ca to form the calcium carbonate plates, with which they are covered. Calcium is needed to form the pectin...
645. ...s in the plant vacuole. The Ca concentration of the vacuole may reach millimolar levels. The most striking use of Ca ions as a structural element in algae occurs in the marine coccolithophores, which **use** Ca to form the calcium carbonate plates, with which they are covered. Calcium is needed to form the pectin in the middle lamella of newly formed cells. Calcium is needed to stabilize the permeability...
646. ...through tax breaks and subsidies. In the years since Medicare's creation in 1965, the role of prescription drugs in patient care has significantly increased. As new and expensive drugs have come into **use**, patients, particularly senior citizens at whom Medicare was targeted, have found prescriptions harder to afford. The MMA was designed to address this problem. The benefit is funded in a complex way,...
647. ...associated with the synthesis of DNA and RNA. Over 300 enzymes require the presence of magnesium ions for their catalytic action, including "all" enzymes utilizing or synthesizing ATP, or those that **use** other nucleotides to synthesize DNA and RNA. In plants, magnesium is necessary for synthesis of chlorophyll and photosynthesis. A balance of magnesium is vital to the well-being of all organisms. Mag...
648. ...mistry, may have led to its utilization in evolution as an ion for signaling, enzyme activation, and catalysis. However, the unusual nature of ionic magnesium has also led to a major challenge in the **use** of the ion in biological systems. Biological membranes are impermeable to magnesium (and other ions), so transport proteins must facilitate the flow of magnesium, both into and out of cells and intra...
649. ...sure, anxiety disorders, migraines, osteoporosis, and cerebral infarction. Acute deficiency (see hypomagnesemia) is rare, and is more common as a drug side-effect (such as chronic alcohol or diuretic **use**) than from low food intake per se, but it can occur in people fed intravenously for extended periods of time. The most common symptom of excess oral magnesium intake is diarrhea. Supplements based on...
650. ...related species: For example, the reverse transcriptase enzyme of lentiviruses like HIV, SIV and FIV is typically dependent on Mg, whereas the analogous enzyme for other retroviruses prefers Mn. The **use** of radioactive tracer elements in ion uptake assays allows the calculation of km, Ki and Vmax and determines the initial change in the ion content of the cells. Mg decays by the emission of a high-en...
651. ...er which Mg is to be measured. Recently, Otten "et al." (2001) have described work into a new class of compounds that may prove more useful, having significantly better binding affinities for Mg. The **use** of the fluorescent dyes is limited to measuring the free Mg. If the ion concentration is buffered by the cell by chelation or removal to subcellular compartments, the measured rate of uptake will giv...
652. ...ses maintain a constant ΔpH across the plasma membrane and the vacuole membrane. Mg is transported into the vacuole using the energy of ΔpH (in "A. thaliana" by AtMHX). Transport of Mg into cells may **use** either the negative ΔΨ or the ΔpH. The transport of Mg into mitochondria probably uses ΔΨ as in the mitochondria of yeast, and it is likely that chloroplasts take Mg by a similar system. The mechanis...
653. ...ed financially by the Rockefeller Foundation, Hevesy had a very productive year. He developed the X-ray fluorescence analytical method, and discovered the samarium alpha-ray. It was here he began the **use** of radioactive isotopes in studying the metabolic processes of plants and animals, by tracing chemicals in the body by replacing part of stable isotopes with small quantities of the radioactive isoto...
654. ...cesses of plants and animals, by tracing chemicals in the body by replacing part of stable isotopes with small quantities of the radioactive isotopes. In 1923, Hevesy published the first study on the **use** of the naturally radioactive Pb as radioactive tracer to follow the absorption and translocation in the roots, stems and leaves of Vicia faba, also known as the broad bean. Later, in 1943, the work o...
655. ...es, but there are only ten foreign members of the Royal Swedish Academy, and only two have received a Copley." (Bohr was the other one.) He received the Atoms for Peace Award in 1958 for his peaceful **use** of radioactive isotopes. De Hevesy married Pia Riis in 1924. They had one son and three daughters together, one of whom (Eugenie) married a grandson of the Swedish Nobel laureate Svante Arrhenius. De...
656. ...ible after cessation or reduction of treatment. Nevertheless, recommendation is that all patients should be monitored through laboratory blood analyses, including liver function tests, to ensure safe **use** of interferons. To help prevent injection-site reactions, patients are advised to rotate injection sites and use an aseptic injection technique. Injection devices are available to optimize the inject...
657. ...ored through laboratory blood analyses, including liver function tests, to ensure safe use of interferons. To help prevent injection-site reactions, patients are advised to rotate injection sites and **use** an aseptic injection technique. Injection devices are available to optimize the injection process. Side effects are often onerous enough that many patients ultimately discontinue taking interferons (...
658. ...ce based on the Act of Securing Quality, Efficacy, Safety of Pharmaceuticals, Medical Devices, Regenerative or Cellular Therapy Products, Gene Therapy Products, and Cosmetics if they are intended for **use** in less than 50,000 patients in Japan for which there is a high medical need. , there were 281 marketed orphan drugs and more than 400 orphan-designated drugs in clinical trials. More than 60% of orp...
659. ...cost per patient for orphan drugs is "six times that of non-orphan drugs, a clear indication of their pricing power". The cost of per-person outlays are large and are expected to increase with wider **use** of public subsidies. The 2014 Orphan Drug report stated that the percentage of orphan drug sales as part of all prescription drug sales had been increasing at a rapid rate. The report projected a tot...
660. ...n the EU for 10 years after approval. The EU's legislation is administered by the Committee on Orphan Medicinal Products of the European Medicines Agency (EMA). In late 2007 the FDA and EMA agreed to **use** a common application process for both agencies to make it easier for manufacturers to apply for orphan drug status but, while continuing two separate approval processes. Legislation has been implemen...
661. ...he beginning of the AIDS epidemic the lack of treatment for the disease was often accredited to a believed lack of commercial base for a medication linked to HIV infection. This encouraged the FDA to **use** the Orphan Drug Act to help bolster research in this field, and by 1995 13 of the 19 drugs approved by the FDA to treat AIDS had received orphan drug designation, with 10 receiving marketing rights....
662. ...phan drugs, such as eculizumab, was not related to research, development and manufacturing costs. Their price is arbitrary and they have become more profitable than traditional medicines. By 2007 the **use** of economic evaluation methods regarding public-funding of orphan drugs, using estimates of the incremental cost-effectiveness, for example, became more established internationally. The QALY has ofte...
663. ...for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in England and Wales, for example, operated with a threshold range of £20,000–30,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). By 2005 doubts were raised about the **use** of economic evaluations in orphan drugs. By 2008 most of the orphan drugs appraised had cost-effectiveness thresholds "well in excess of the 'accepted' level and would not be reimbursed according to...
664. ...majority of the American people—not the special interests and party leaders in Washington." Ross supports Arkansas's bipartisan Medicaid expansion known as the "private option" – the state's plan to **use** federal Medicaid money to pay for private insurance for people earning up to 138 percent of the federal poverty level. Ross said that "although he voted against the Affordable Care Act, he supports t...
665. ...n easy victory in the 2006 election, defeating the similarly named Republican, real estate executive Joe Ross, 75 percent–25 percent. In terms of a possible ballot initiative in Arkansas to allow the **use** of doctor-prescribed medical marijuana, Ross' campaign said "over the next several months, many issues will try to get on the 2014 ballot, and, like every other Arkansan, Mike Ross will carefully rev...
666. ...guably the most important of these later works is the "Compendium of Materia Medica" (, ) compiled during the Ming dynasty by Li Shizhen, which is still used today for consultation and reference. The **use** of Chinese herbs was popular during the medieval age in western Asian and Islamic countries. They were traded through the Silk Road from the East to the West. Cinnamon, ginger, rhubarb, nutmeg and cu...
667. ...the best timing of planting and harvesting them. Some animal parts used as medicinals can be considered rather strange such as cows' gallstones. Furthermore, the classic materia medica describes the **use** of 35 traditional Chinese medicines derived from the human body, including bones, fingernail, hairs, dandruff, earwax, impurities on the teeth, feces, urine, sweat, and organs, but most are no longer...
668. ...35 traditional Chinese medicines derived from the human body, including bones, fingernail, hairs, dandruff, earwax, impurities on the teeth, feces, urine, sweat, and organs, but most are no longer in **use**. Typically, one batch of medicinals is prepared as a decoction of about 9 to 18 substances. Some of these are considered as main herbs, some as ancillary herbs; within the ancillary herbs, up to thre...
669. ...he ancillary herbs, up to three categories can be distinguished. Some ingredients are added to cancel out toxicity or side-effects of the main ingredients; on top of that, some medicinals require the **use** of other substances as catalysts. Chinese patent medicine () is a kind of traditional Chinese medicine. They are standardized herbal formulas. From ancient times, pills were formed by combining sever...
670. ...orth American crops, translates as 'western ginseng,' while ("Radix ginseng Japonica"), grown in and imported from North Asian countries, is 'eastern ginseng.' From the earliest records regarding the **use** of medicinals to today, the toxicity of certain substances has been described in all Chinese materia medica. Since TCM has become more popular in the Western world, there are increasing concerns abou...
671. ...there is not enough robust evidence to support the effectiveness of traditional Chinese medicine herbs to stop the bleeding from haemorrhoids. A 2008 Cochrane review found promising evidence for the **use** of Chinese herbal medicine in relieving painful menstruation, compared to conventional medicine such as NSAIDs and the oral contraceptive pill, but the findings are of low methodological quality. A 2...
672. ...al herbs have a similar effect at preventing and treating influenza as antiviral medication. Due to the poor quality of these medical studies, there is insufficient evidence to support or dismiss the **use** of Chinese medicinal herbs for the treatment of influenza. There is a need for larger and higher quality randomized clinical trials to determine how effective Chinese herbal medicine is for treating...
673. ...r quality randomized clinical trials to determine how effective Chinese herbal medicine is for treating people with influenza. A 2005 Cochrane review found that although the evidence was weak for the **use** of any single herb, there was low quality evidence that some Chinese medicinal herbs may be effective for the treatment of acute pancreatitis. Successful results have been scarce: artemisinin is one...
674. ...with such substances, and the black market in rhinoceros horn, for example, has reduced the world's rhino population by more than 90 percent over the past 40 years. Concerns have also arisen over the **use** of turtle plastron and seahorses. TCM recognizes bear bile as a medicinal. In 1988, the Chinese Ministry of Health started controlling bile production, which previously used bears killed before winte...
675. ...eing held in tiny cages. The catheter leads through a permanent hole in the abdomen directly to the gall bladder, which can cause severe pain. Increased international attention has mostly stopped the **use** of bile outside of China; gallbladders from butchered cattle () are recommended as a substitute for this ingredient. Collecting American ginseng to assist the Asian traditional medicine trade has mad...
676. ...sources listed below, there is little or no evidence for efficacy or proof of safety across consumer age groups and disease conditions for which they are intended. There are over 300 herbs in common **use**. Some of the most commonly used herbs are Ginseng (), wolfberry ( ("Angelica sinensis", ), astragalus (), atractylodes (), bupleurum (), cinnamon (cinnamon twigs () and cinnamon bark ()), coptis (),...
677. ...in the reference text, although these herbs are not universally recognized as such in other texts. The herbs are: In addition to the above, many other Chinese herbs and other substances are in common **use**, and these include: Traditional Chinese herbs are used either standalone, or in a grouping, jointly with other herbs. When several herbs are used together, this amalgamation is called a 'herbal formu...
678. ...by tracing the path that the radioisotope follows from reactants to products. Radiolabeling or radiotracing is thus the radioactive form of isotopic labeling. In biological contexts, experiments that **use** radioisotope tracers are sometimes called radioisotope feeding experiments. Radioisotopes of hydrogen, carbon, phosphorus, sulfur, and iodine have been used extensively to trace the path of biochemic...
679. ...perscripted to the left. When the atomic nucleus of an isotope is unstable, compounds containing this isotope are radioactive. Tritium is an example of a radioactive isotope. The principle behind the **use** of radioactive tracers is that an atom in a chemical compound is replaced by another atom, of the same chemical element. The substituting atom, however, is a radioactive isotope. This process is ofte...
680. ...ncentration and its presence detected by sensitive radiation detectors such as Geiger counters and scintillation counters. George de Hevesy won the 1943 Nobel Prize for Chemistry "for his work on the **use** of isotopes as tracers in the study of chemical processes". There are two main ways in which radioactive tracers are used The commonly used radioisotopes have short half lives and so do not occur in...
681. ...cays by beta decay, with a half-life of 5730 years. It is continuously produced in the upper atmosphere of the earth, so it occurs at a trace level in the environment. However, it is not practical to **use** naturally-occurring C for tracer studies. Instead it is made by neutron irradiation of the isotope C which occurs naturally in carbon at about the 1.1% level. C has been used extensively to trace the...
682. ...etium-99m generator, by decay of Mo. The molybdenum isotope has a half-life of approximately 66 hours (2.75 days), so the generator has a useful life of about two weeks. Most commercial Tc generators **use** column chromatography, in which Mo in the form of molybdate, MoO is adsorbed onto acid alumina (AlO). When the Mo decays it forms pertechnetate TcO, which because of its single charge is less tightly...
683. ...dose of C labeled urea to detect h. pylori infection. If the labeled urea was metabolized by h. pylori in the stomach, the patient's breath would contain labeled carbon dioxide. In recent years, the **use** of substances enriched in the non-radioactive isotope C has become the preferred method, avoiding patient exposure to radioactivity. In hydraulic fracturing, radioactive tracer isotopes are injected...
684. ...e most commonly used tracers include antimony-124, bromine-82, iodine-125, iodine-131, iridium-192, and scandium-46. A 2003 publication by the International Atomic Energy Agency confirms the frequent **use** of most of the tracers above, and says that manganese-56, sodium-24, technetium-99m, silver-110m, argon-41, and xenon-133 are also used extensively because they are easily identified and measured. He...
685. ...f the expenditure took place. It assesses the cost–effectiveness of new treatments by analysing the cost and benefit of the proposed treatment relative to the next best treatment that is currently in **use**. NICE guidance supports the use of quality-adjusted life years (QALY) as the primary outcome for quantifying the expected health benefits associated with a given treatment regime. By comparing the pr...
686. ...assesses the cost–effectiveness of new treatments by analysing the cost and benefit of the proposed treatment relative to the next best treatment that is currently in use. NICE guidance supports the **use** of quality-adjusted life years (QALY) as the primary outcome for quantifying the expected health benefits associated with a given treatment regime. By comparing the present value (see discounting) of...
687. ...e occasion, the Royal National Institute of Blind People said it was outraged over its delayed decision for further guidance regarding two drugs for macular degeneration that are already approved for **use** in the NHS. However the Department of Health said that it had 'made it clear to PCTs that funding for treatments should not be withheld simply because guidance from NICE is unavailable'. Some of the...
688. ...lzheimer's disease and bevacizumab, sorafenib, sunitinib and temsirolimus for renal cell carcinoma. All these are drugs with a high cost per treatment and NICE has either rejected or restricted their **use** in the NHS on the grounds that they are not cost-effective. A statement published by the Royal College of Physicians expressed concern that the 2021 NICE guidelines for ME/CFS did not properly evalua...
689. ...ants called legumes, including the agricultural crops alfalfa and soybeans, widely grown by farmers, harbour nitrogen-fixing bacteria that can convert atmospheric nitrogen into nitrogen the plant can **use**. Plants not classified as legumes such as wheat, corn and rice rely on nitrogen compounds present in the soil to support their growth. These can be supplied by mineralization of soil organic matter o...
690. ...ted within the plant. All energy transfers in the cell are critically dependent on phosphorus. As with all living things, phosphorus is part of the Adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which is of immediate **use** in all processes that require energy with the cells. Phosphorus can also be used to modify the activity of various enzymes by phosphorylation, and is used for cell signaling. Phosphorus is concentrat...
691. ...contact with water or volcanic gases dissolved in percolating water. There is an abundant supply of nitrogen in the earth's atmosphere—N gas comprises nearly 79% of air. However, N is unavailable for **use** by most organisms because there is a triple bond between the two nitrogen atoms in the molecule, making it almost inert. In order for nitrogen to be used for growth it must be "fixed" (combined) in t...
692. ...or "Liebig's law" (that states that plant growth is controlled not by the total amount of resources available, but by the scarcest resource) has been replaced by several mathematical approaches that **use** different models in order to take the interactions between the individual nutrients into account. Later developments in this field were based on the fact that the nutrient elements (and compounds) do...
693. ...ion via a number of mechanisms as exemplified for the case of ammonia. Boron is highly soluble in the form of borax or boric acid and is too easily leached from soil making these forms unsuitable for **use** as a fertilizer. Calcium borate is less soluble and can be made from sodium tetraborate. Boron is often applied to fields as a contaminant in other soil amendments but is not generally adequate to ma...
694. ...lenium is, however, an essential mineral element for animal (including human) nutrition and selenium deficiencies are known to occur when food or animal feed is grown on selenium-deficient soils. The **use** of inorganic selenium fertilizers can increase selenium concentrations in edible crops and animal diets thereby improving animal health. It is useful to apply a high phosphorus content fertilizer, su...
695. ...nto the efficacy and possible adaptation of traditional herbal treatments. Herbal medicine Herbal medicine (also called herbalism, phytomedicine or phytotherapy) is the study of pharmacognosy and the **use** of medicinal plants, which are a basis of traditional medicine. With worldwide research into pharmacology, some herbal medicines have been translated into modern remedies, such as the anti-malarial g...
696. ...various substances from a given source with less processing is safer or more effective than manufactured products, a concept for which there is no evidence. Archaeological evidence indicates that the **use** of medicinal plants dates back to the Paleolithic age, approximately 60,000 years ago. Written evidence of herbal remedies dates back over 5,000 years to the Sumerians, who compiled lists of plants....
697. ...ch conducted on herbal products. According to Cancer Research UK as of 2015, "there is currently no strong evidence from studies in people that herbal remedies can treat, prevent or cure cancer". The **use** of herbal remedies is more prevalent in people with chronic diseases, such as cancer, diabetes, asthma, and end-stage kidney disease. Multiple factors such as gender, age, ethnicity, education and so...
698. ...r, diabetes, asthma, and end-stage kidney disease. Multiple factors such as gender, age, ethnicity, education and social class are also shown to have associations with the prevalence of herbal remedy **use**. There are many forms in which herbs can be administered, the most common of which is a liquid consumed as a herbal tea or a (possibly diluted) plant extract. Herbal teas, or tisanes, are the resulta...
699. ...ractions have led to adverse reactions that are sometimes life threatening or lethal." Proper double-blind clinical trials are needed to determine the safety and efficacy of each plant before medical **use**. Although many consumers believe that herbal medicines are safe because they are natural, herbal medicines and synthetic drugs may interact, causing toxicity to the consumer. Herbal remedies can also...
700. ...e well known, partly due to a long and colorful history in Europe, associated with "sorcery", "magic" and intrigue. Although not frequent, adverse reactions have been reported for herbs in widespread **use**. On occasion serious untoward outcomes have been linked to herb consumption. A case of major potassium depletion has been attributed to chronic licorice ingestion, and consequently professional herba...
701. ...rious untoward outcomes have been linked to herb consumption. A case of major potassium depletion has been attributed to chronic licorice ingestion, and consequently professional herbalists avoid the **use** of licorice where they recognize that this may be a risk. Black cohosh has been implicated in a case of liver failure. Few studies are available on the safety of herbs for pregnant women, and one stu...
702. ...here they recognize that this may be a risk. Black cohosh has been implicated in a case of liver failure. Few studies are available on the safety of herbs for pregnant women, and one study found that **use** of complementary and alternative medicines is associated with a 30% lower ongoing pregnancy and live birth rate during fertility treatment. Examples of herbal treatments with likely cause-effect rela...
703. ...herbal medicine. In the United States, according to the American Herbalist Guild, "there is currently no licensing or certification for herbalists in any state that precludes the rights of anyone to **use**, dispense, or recommend herbs." However, there are U.S. federal restrictions for marketing herbs as cures for medical conditions, or essentially practicing as an unlicensed physician. Over the years...
704. ...o numerous herbalism companies for illegally marketing products under "conditions that cause them to be drugs under section 201(g)(1) of the Act [21 U.S.C. § 321(g)(1)], because they are intended for **use** in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease and/or intended to affect the structure or any function of the body" when no such evidence existed. During the COVID-19 pandemi...
705. ...keptical views by scientists. Unethical practices by some herbalists and manufacturers, which may include false advertising about health benefits on product labels or literature, and contamination or **use** of fillers during product preparation, may erode consumer confidence about services and products. Paraherbalism is the pseudoscientific use of extracts of plant or animal origin as supposed medicines...
706. ...efits on product labels or literature, and contamination or use of fillers during product preparation, may erode consumer confidence about services and products. Paraherbalism is the pseudoscientific **use** of extracts of plant or animal origin as supposed medicines or health-promoting agents. Phytotherapy differs from plant-derived medicines in standard pharmacology because it does not isolate and stan...
707. ...Africa uses traditional medicine as primary health care. Native Americans used about 2,500 of the approximately 20,000 plant species that are native to North America. In Andean healing practices, the **use** of entheogens, in particular the San Pedro cactus ("Echinopsis pachanoi") is still a vital component, and has been around for millennia. Some researchers trained in both Western and traditional Chine...
708. ...ded, especially in remote areas of the country. Although primarily herbal, some Jamu materials are acquired from animals, such as honey, royal jelly, milk, and "Ayam Kampung" eggs. Herbalists tend to **use** extracts from parts of plants, such as the roots or leaves, believing that plants are subject to environmental pressures and therefore develop resistance to threats such as radiation, reactive oxygen...
709. ...ts are subject to environmental pressures and therefore develop resistance to threats such as radiation, reactive oxygen species and microbial attack to survive, providing defensive phytochemicals of **use** in herbalism. Indigenous healers often claim to have learned by observing that sick animals change their food preferences to nibble at bitter herbs they would normally reject. Field biologists have p...
710. ...powder, which was used in syrup form. In 1965, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the sale of up to one ounce of syrup of ipecac without a prescription. At the time it was approved, its **use** was recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Association of Poison Control Centers, American Medical Association, and the FDA's medical advisory board as a method to induce vomitin...
711. ...American Academy of Pediatrics, American Association of Poison Control Centers, American Medical Association, and the FDA's medical advisory board as a method to induce vomiting "for quick first-aid **use** in the home, under medical supervision", for use in cases of accidental poisoning. Current guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics, however, strongly advise against this and in fact recomm...
712. ...tion of Poison Control Centers, American Medical Association, and the FDA's medical advisory board as a method to induce vomiting "for quick first-aid use in the home, under medical supervision", for **use** in cases of accidental poisoning. Current guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics, however, strongly advise against this and in fact recommend the disposal of any syrup of ipecac present i...
713. ..., strongly advise against this and in fact recommend the disposal of any syrup of ipecac present in the home. Many toxicological associations have also issued position papers recommending against its **use** as a first-line treatment for most ingested poisons, because of a lack of evidence that syrup of ipecac actually helps improve the outcome in cases of poisoning. Moreover, accidental overdose of ipec...
714. ...iew by a Health Resources and Services Administration-funded scientific panel concluded that vomiting alone does not reliably remove poisons from the stomach. The study suggested that indications for **use** of ipecac syrup were rare, and patients should be treated by more effective and safer means. Additionally, its potential side effects, such as lethargy, can be confused with the poison's effects, com...
715. ...e, and patients should be treated by more effective and safer means. Additionally, its potential side effects, such as lethargy, can be confused with the poison's effects, complicating diagnosis. The **use** of ipecac may also delay the use of other treatments (e.g., activated charcoal, whole bowel irrigation, or oral antidotes) or make them less effective. Ipecac has been used by people with bulimia ner...
716. ...by more effective and safer means. Additionally, its potential side effects, such as lethargy, can be confused with the poison's effects, complicating diagnosis. The use of ipecac may also delay the **use** of other treatments (e.g., activated charcoal, whole bowel irrigation, or oral antidotes) or make them less effective. Ipecac has been used by people with bulimia nervosa as a means to achieve weight...
717. ...rcoal, whole bowel irrigation, or oral antidotes) or make them less effective. Ipecac has been used by people with bulimia nervosa as a means to achieve weight loss through induced vomiting. Repeated **use** in this manner is believed to cause damage to the heart and muscles, which can ultimately result in the user's death.  Misuse of ipecac has been blamed for the death of singer Karen Carpenter in 1983...
718. ...ype of the 'doctrine of signatures' pervading the design of gardens and orchards, botany and the Macrocosm at large. The 17th century botanist William Coles supposed that God had made 'Herbes for the **use** of men, and hath given them particular Signatures, whereby a man may read ... the use of them.' Coles's "The Art of Simpling" and "Adam in Eden", stated that walnuts were good for curing head ailment...
719. ...ny and the Macrocosm at large. The 17th century botanist William Coles supposed that God had made 'Herbes for the use of men, and hath given them particular Signatures, whereby a man may read ... the **use** of them.' Coles's "The Art of Simpling" and "Adam in Eden", stated that walnuts were good for curing head ailments because in his opinion, "they Have the perfect Signatures of the Head". Regarding "H...
720. ...iform brand identity for all its subsidiaries, and the company has stressed its intention to protect the brand of "the real Merck" globally and initiated litigation against its former subsidiary over **use** of the name. In 2018, the company celebrated their 350th anniversary. Merck has formed a strategic alliance with the Technische Universität Darmstadt, which is located in the same town as Merck. The...
721. ...s, while also visualizing "vibrant science and technology" as the new company's brand. It has initiated litigation in several countries against its former subsidiary Merck & Co. (MSD) over infringing **use** of the Merck name. In 2016, the High Court of Justice in the United Kingdom ruled that MSD had breached an agreement with its former parent company and that only Merck of Darmstadt is entitled to use...
722. ...use of the Merck name. In 2016, the High Court of Justice in the United Kingdom ruled that MSD had breached an agreement with its former parent company and that only Merck of Darmstadt is entitled to **use** the Merck name in the United Kingdom; the judge also held that MSD's use of "Merck" as part of branding on its global websites were directed to the UK and infringed Merck's trade mark rights in the U...
723. ...ingdom ruled that MSD had breached an agreement with its former parent company and that only Merck of Darmstadt is entitled to use the Merck name in the United Kingdom; the judge also held that MSD's **use** of "Merck" as part of branding on its global websites were directed to the UK and infringed Merck's trade mark rights in the UK. In response, MSD has initiated counter-litigation in the United States...
724. ...March 2021) divisions. Its corporate website is "merckgroup.com" in the world excluding U.S. and Canada, displaying normal Merck logo in the header, and "emdgroup.com" in U.S. and Canada, displaying **use** of its corporate name, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, in the header and additionally displaying a disclaimer about trademark ownership in the footer. On 7 December 2021, Merck, which uses the name E...
725. ...Following the defeat of Germany in World War II, Merck was granted permission by the military government to produce drugs, pesticides, food preservatives, reagents, and fine chemicals for laboratory **use**. Soon afterward the boom that is commonly known as the "Wirtschaftswunder" (economic miracle) set in. For Merck, this meant two-digit sales-growth figures for many years. Products of this time includ...
726. ...ing services. Science & Lab Solutions includes products for Laboratories and Quality Control organizations. Process Solutions supports the biopharma manufacturing processes of its clients with single-**use** products. In 2015, Merck acquired SigmaAldrich and combined it with Merck Millipore. The company was branded Merck globally and MilliporeSigma in the United States and Canada The newly established li...
727. ...t revival in the Western world since the last decades of the 20th century, as herbalism and related disciplines (such as homeopathy and aromatherapy) became popular forms of alternative medicine. The **use** of plants for medicinal purposes, and their descriptions, dates back two to three thousand years. The word "herbal" is derived from the mediaeval Latin "liber herbalis" ("book of herbs"): it is somet...
728. ...rom about 2500 BCE as a copied manuscript of the 7th century BCE. Inscribed Assyrian tablets dated 668–626 BCE list about 250 vegetable drugs: the tablets include herbal plant names that are still in **use** today including: saffron, cumin, turmeric and sesame. The ancient Greeks gleaned much of their medicinal knowledge from Egypt and Mesopotamia. Hippocrates (460–377 BCE), the "father of medicine" (ren...
729. ...ion "Herball"), over 1750 pages and over 2,700 woodcuts. This was effectively the last and culminating herbal of its kind and, although it included more plants of no discernible economic or medicinal **use** than ever before, they were nevertheless arranged according to their properties rather than their natural affinities. Nicholas Culpeper (1616–1654) was an English botanist, herbalist, physician, apot...
730. ...c pharmacopoeia. "The English Physitian" (1652) and the "Complete Herbal" (1653), contain a rich store of pharmaceutical and herbal knowledge. His works lacked scientific credibility because of their **use** of astrology, though he combined diseases, plants and astrological prognosis into a simple integrated system that has proved popular to the present day. The legacy of the herbal extends beyond medici...
731. ...rticulture. Herbal medicine is still practiced in many parts of the world but the traditional grand herbal, as described here, ended with the European Renaissance, the rise of modern medicine and the **use** of synthetic and industrialized drugs. The medicinal component of herbals has developed in several ways. Firstly, discussion of plant lore was reduced and with the increased medical content there eme...
732. ...ived from GMOs, including lecithin. Because it is nearly impossible to detect the origin of derivatives such as lecithin, the European regulations require those who wish to sell lecithin in Europe to **use** a meticulous, but essential system of identity preservation (IP). Lecithins have emulsification and lubricant properties, and are a surfactant. They can be completely metabolized (see inositol) by hu...
733. ...lecithin are: Lecithin is used for applications in human food, animal feed, pharmaceuticals, paints, and other industrial applications. Applications include: The nontoxicity of lecithin leads to its **use** with food, as a food additive or in food preparation. It is used commercially in foods requiring a natural emulsifier or lubricant. In confectionery, it reduces viscosity, replaces more expensive ing...
734. ...a study showed that stopping medication may stimulate the immune system to attack the virus. Another reason for drug holidays is to permit a drug to regain effectiveness after a period of continuous **use**, and to reduce the tolerance effect that may require increased dosages.  In addition to drug holidays that are intended for therapeutic effect, they are sometimes used to reduce drug side effects so...
735. ...nst unwanted side effects, assuming that both will dissipate after an extended vacation. One-day drug holidays in the lithium treatment of bipolar disorder, known as "lithium-free days", have been in **use** since the pioneering work of Noack and Trautner in 1951. This was found to reduce toxic buildup of the drug in some patients. Drug holidays from L-dopa found use in the early 1970s when Sweet et al....
736. ...as "lithium-free days", have been in use since the pioneering work of Noack and Trautner in 1951. This was found to reduce toxic buildup of the drug in some patients. Drug holidays from L-dopa found **use** in the early 1970s when Sweet et al. reported they were beneficial in terms of restoring the effectiveness of the treatment after adaptation by the brain had diminished its effectiveness. However, la...
737. ...l have value and should be revisited." Pharmaceutical industry The pharmaceutical industry is an industry involved in medicine that discovers, develops, produces, and markets pharmaceutical goods for **use** as drugs which are then administered to (or self-administered by) patients. These medications are created and put to market for the curing or preventing of disease, as well as alleviating symptoms of...
738. ...ly efficacious for the acute treatment of asthma attacks, and an inhaled version was sold in the United States until 2011 (Primatene Mist). By 1929 epinephrine had been formulated into an inhaler for **use** in the treatment of nasal congestion. While highly effective, the requirement for injection limited the use of epinephrine and orally active derivatives were sought. A structurally similar compound,...
739. ...es until 2011 (Primatene Mist). By 1929 epinephrine had been formulated into an inhaler for use in the treatment of nasal congestion. While highly effective, the requirement for injection limited the **use** of epinephrine and orally active derivatives were sought. A structurally similar compound, ephedrine, was identified by Japanese chemists in the "Ma Huang" plant and marketed by Eli Lilly as an oral...
740. ...od elevation in depression and other psychiatric indications. It received approval as a New and Nonofficial Remedy from the American Medical Association for these uses in 1937, and remained in common **use** for depression until the development of tricyclic antidepressants in the 1960s. In 1903, Hermann Emil Fischer and Joseph von Mering disclosed their discovery that diethylbarbituric acid, formed from...
741. ...list of essential medications. The 1950s and 1960s saw increased awareness of the addictive properties and abuse potential of barbiturates and amphetamines and led to increasing restrictions on their **use** and growing government oversight of prescribers. Today, amphetamine is largely restricted to use in the treatment of attention deficit disorder and phenobarbital in the treatment of epilepsy. In 1958...
742. ...rties and abuse potential of barbiturates and amphetamines and led to increasing restrictions on their use and growing government oversight of prescribers. Today, amphetamine is largely restricted to **use** in the treatment of attention deficit disorder and phenobarbital in the treatment of epilepsy. In 1958, Leo Sternbach discovered the first benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide (Librium). Dozens of other...
743. ...and phenobarbital in the treatment of epilepsy. In 1958, Leo Sternbach discovered the first benzodiazepine, chlordiazepoxide (Librium). Dozens of other benzodiazepines have been developed and are in **use**, some of the more popular drugs being diazepam (Valium), alprazolam (Xanax), clonazepam (Klonopin), and lorazepam (Ativan). Due to their far superior safety and therapeutic properties, benzodiazepine...
744. ...rugs being diazepam (Valium), alprazolam (Xanax), clonazepam (Klonopin), and lorazepam (Ativan). Due to their far superior safety and therapeutic properties, benzodiazepines have largely replaced the **use** of barbiturates in medicine, except in certain special cases. When it was later discovered that benzodiazepines, like barbiturates, significantly lose their effectiveness and can have serious side ef...
745. ...rates, significantly lose their effectiveness and can have serious side effects when taken long-term, Heather Ashton researched benzodiazepine dependence and developed a protocol to discontinue their **use**. A series of experiments performed from the late 1800s to the early 1900s revealed that diabetes is caused by the absence of a substance normally produced by the pancreas. In 1869, Oskar Minkowski an...
746. ...morphine, opium, cocaine, or any of several other potentially dangerous or addictive drugs, and if its label failed to indicate the quantity or proportion of such drugs. The government's attempts to **use** the law to prosecute manufacturers for making unsupported claims of efficacy were undercut by a Supreme Court ruling restricting the federal government's enforcement powers to cases of incorrect spec...
747. ...was a 42% drop in the incidence of diseases for which antibiotics were effective and only a 20% drop in those for which antibiotics were not effective. The report concluded that "it appears that the **use** of antibiotics, early diagnosis, and other factors have limited the epidemic spread and thus the number of these diseases which have occurred". The study further examined mortality rates for eight co...
748. ...in Europe and elsewhere suffered the teratogenic effects of thalidomide. Without approval from the FDA, the firm distributed Kevadon to over 1,000 physicians there under the guise of investigational **use**. Over 20,000 Americans received thalidomide in this "study," including 624 pregnant patients, and about 17 known newborns suffered the effects of the drug. The thalidomide tragedy resurrected Kefauve...
749. ...rials showed very good inhibitory effect as in clinical trials, however a long-term study in dogs found toxic effects at higher doses and as a result mevastatin was believed to be too toxic for human **use**. Mevastatin was never marketed, because of its adverse effects of tumors, muscle deterioration, and sometimes death in laboratory dogs. P. Roy Vagelos, chief scientist and later CEO of Merck & Co, wa...
750. ...recently, multi-nationals are increasingly relying on contract research organizations to manage drug development. Drug discovery and development are very expensive; of all compounds investigated for **use** in humans only a small fraction are eventually approved in most nations by government-appointed medical institutions or boards, who have to approve new drugs before they can be marketed in those coun...
751. ...m the market completely. The FDA provides information about approved drugs at the Orange Book site. In the UK, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency approves and evaluates drugs for **use**. Normally an approval in the UK and other European countries comes later than one in the USA. Then it is the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), for England and Wales, who decid...
752. ...Then it is the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), for England and Wales, who decides if and how the National Health Service (NHS) will allow (in the sense of paying for) their **use**. The British National Formulary is the core guide for pharmacists and clinicians. In many non-US western countries, a 'fourth hurdle' of cost effectiveness analysis has developed before new technolog...
753. ...A 2012 report by the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology made several key recommendations to reduce regulatory burdens to new drug development, including 1) expanding the FDA's **use** of accelerated approval processes, 2) creating an expedited approval pathway for drugs intended for use in narrowly defined populations, and 3) undertaking pilot projects designed to evaluate the fea...
754. ...ndations to reduce regulatory burdens to new drug development, including 1) expanding the FDA's use of accelerated approval processes, 2) creating an expedited approval pathway for drugs intended for **use** in narrowly defined populations, and 3) undertaking pilot projects designed to evaluate the feasibility of a new, adaptive drug approval process. Pharmaceutical fraud involves deceptions which bring...
755. ...s in FY 2010. Examples of fraud cases include the GlaxoSmithKline $3 billion settlement, Pfizer $2.3 billion settlement and Merck & Co. $650 million settlement. Damages from fraud can be recovered by **use** of the False Claims Act, most commonly under the "qui tam" provisions which rewards an individual for being a "whistleblower", or relator (law). Every major company selling atypical antipsychotics—Br...
756. ...intended for localized or systemic action to relieve pain, constipation, irritation, inflammation, nausea and vomiting, fever, migraines, allergies, and sedation. If they cause inflammation, chronic **use** of suppositories may cause rectal stricture, but overall this is a safe method of drug delivery.  Alprostadil pellets are urethral suppositories used for the treatment of severe erectile dysfunction...
757. ...of drug delivery.  Alprostadil pellets are urethral suppositories used for the treatment of severe erectile dysfunction (impotence). They are marketed under the name "Muse" in the United States. Its **use** has diminished since the development of oral impotence medications. Brominated vegetable oil Brominated vegetable oil (BVO) is a complex mixture of plant-derived triglycerides that have been modified...
758. ..., preventing them from separating during distribution. Brominated vegetable oil has been used by the soft drink industry since 1931, generally at a level of about 8 ppm. Several countries have banned **use** of BVO in food and drink products because of the potential for adverse health effects in humans. Careful control of the type of oil used allows bromination of it to produce BVO with a specific densit...
759. ...ignated in 1958 as generally recognized as safe (GRAS), but this was withdrawn by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1970. The U.S. Code of Federal Regulations imposed restrictions on the **use** of BVO as a food additive in the United States, limiting the concentration to 15 ppm, the amount of free fatty acids to 2.5 percent, and the iodine value to 16. BVO was one of four substances that th...
760. ...ed out that since Gatorade is sold in countries where BVO is not approved, there was already an existing formulation without this ingredient. PepsiCo announced in January 2013 that it would no longer **use** BVO in Gatorade. On May 5, 2014, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo said they would remove BVO from their products. As of early 2020, both companies have stopped using BVO in all their products. In October 2023,...
761. ...additives (potassium bromate, propylparaben, and Red 3), becoming the first state to ban food additives that were otherwise approved by the FDA. In July 2024, the FDA revoked regulations allowing the **use** of BVO in food, following a proposal made in November 2023. The agency concluded that the intended use of BVO in food is no longer considered safe after the results of studies conducted in collaborat...
762. ...that were otherwise approved by the FDA. In July 2024, the FDA revoked regulations allowing the use of BVO in food, following a proposal made in November 2023. The agency concluded that the intended **use** of BVO in food is no longer considered safe after the results of studies conducted in collaboration with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) found the potential for adverse health effects in huma...
763. ...d nervous system damage. The final rule banning BVO took effect August 2, 2024, and beverage companies have one year to reformulate their products to comply with the final rule. Canada has banned the **use** of brominated vegetable oil since August 30, 2024. The decision follows a proposal made in May 2024 citing mounting health concerns. This additive was previously permitted in drinks with a limit of 1...
764. ...it of 15 ppm in beverages with citrus or spruce oils. Beverage companies have one year from that date to reformulate and relabel any affected products. In the European Union, BVO has been banned from **use** since 2008 (it was originally banned in the UK and several other European countries in 1970). Any BVO-containing products that may slip through the regulations are pulled from shelves upon discovery....
765. ...the UK and several other European countries in 1970). Any BVO-containing products that may slip through the regulations are pulled from shelves upon discovery. In the EU, beverage companies commonly **use** glycerol ester of wood rosin or locust bean gum as an alternative to BVO. In India, standards for soft drinks have prohibited the use of BVO since 1990. In Japan, the use of BVO as a food additive ha...
766. ...om shelves upon discovery. In the EU, beverage companies commonly use glycerol ester of wood rosin or locust bean gum as an alternative to BVO. In India, standards for soft drinks have prohibited the **use** of BVO since 1990. In Japan, the use of BVO as a food additive has been banned since 2010. There are case reports of adverse effects associated with excessive consumption of BVO-containing products....
767. ...beverage companies commonly use glycerol ester of wood rosin or locust bean gum as an alternative to BVO. In India, standards for soft drinks have prohibited the use of BVO since 1990. In Japan, the **use** of BVO as a food additive has been banned since 2010. There are case reports of adverse effects associated with excessive consumption of BVO-containing products. One case reported that a man who cons...
768. ...ffect in a process known as classical pharmacology. After sequencing of the human genome allowed rapid cloning and synthesis of large quantities of purified proteins, it has become common practice to **use** high throughput screening of large compounds libraries against isolated biological targets which are hypothesized to be disease-modifying in a process known as reverse pharmacology. Hits from these s...
769. ...s are found to have some degree of activity, and if these compounds share common chemical features, one or more pharmacophores can then be developed. At this point, medicinal chemists will attempt to **use** structure–activity relationships (SAR) to improve certain features of the lead compound: This process will require several iterative screening runs, during which, it is hoped, the properties of the n...
770. ...the cone snail toxin ziconotide, also known as Prialt treats severe neuropathic pain. Several other marine-derived agents are now in clinical trials for indications such as cancer, anti-inflammatory **use** and pain. One class of these agents are bryostatin-like compounds, under investigation as anti-cancer therapy. As above mentioned, combinatorial chemistry was a key technology enabling the efficient...
771. ...ection of plant, animal and microbial samples from rich ecosystems can potentially give rise to novel biological activities worth exploiting in the drug development process. One example of successful **use** of this strategy is the screening for antitumor agents by the National Cancer Institute, which started in the 1960s. Paclitaxel was identified from Pacific yew tree "Taxus brevifolia". Paclitaxel sho...
772. ...was identified from Pacific yew tree "Taxus brevifolia". Paclitaxel showed anti-tumour activity by a previously undescribed mechanism (stabilization of microtubules) and is now approved for clinical **use** for the treatment of lung, breast, and ovarian cancer, as well as for Kaposi's sarcoma. Early in the 21st century, Cabazitaxel (made by Sanofi, a French firm), another relative of taxol has been show...
773. ...Epirubicin · Idarubicin · Amrubicin · Pirarubicin · Valrubicin · Zorubicin); 3b. Anthracenediones (Mitoxantrone · Pixantrone). The second main approach involves ethnobotany, the study of the general **use** of plants in society, and ethnopharmacology, an area inside ethnobotany, which is focused specifically on medicinal uses. Artemisinin, an antimalarial agent from sweet wormtree "Artemisia annua", use...
774. ...structure, allowing detailed reconstruction of the molecule's architecture. When a drug is developed with evidence throughout its history of research to show it is safe and effective for the intended **use** in the United States, the company can file an application – the New Drug Application (NDA) – to have the drug commercialized and available for clinical application. NDA status enables the FDA to exam...
775. ...hnobotany integrates knowledge from botany, anthropology, ecology, and chemistry to study plant-related customs across cultures. Researchers in this field document and analyze how different societies **use** local flora for various purposes, including medicine, food, religious use, intoxicants, building materials, fuels and clothing. Richard Evans Schultes, often referred to as the "father of ethnobotany...
776. ...mistry to study plant-related customs across cultures. Researchers in this field document and analyze how different societies use local flora for various purposes, including medicine, food, religious **use**, intoxicants, building materials, fuels and clothing. Richard Evans Schultes, often referred to as the "father of ethnobotany", provided an early definition of the discipline: Since Schultes' time, e...
777. ...in modern contexts, particularly in pharmaceutical development. The field now addresses complex issues such as intellectual property rights and equitable benefit-sharing arrangements arising from the **use** of traditional knowledge. The idea of ethnobotany was first proposed by the early 20th century botanist John William Harshberger. While Harshberger did perform ethnobotanical research extensively, in...
778. ...n conducted in connection with monasticism. However, most botanical knowledge was kept in gardens, such as physic gardens attached to hospitals and religious buildings. It was thought of in practical **use** terms for culinary and medical purposes and the ethnographic element was not studied as a modern anthropologist might approach ethnobotany today. In 1732, Carl Linnaeus carried out a research expedit...
779. ...ury became the 19th, ethnobotany saw expeditions undertaken with more colonial aims rather than trade economics such as that of Lewis and Clarke which recorded both plants and the peoples encountered **use** of them. Edward Palmer collected material culture artifacts and botanical specimens from people in the North American West (Great Basin) and Mexico from the 1860s to the 1890s. Through all of this re...
780. ...at Basin) and Mexico from the 1860s to the 1890s. Through all of this research, the field of "aboriginal botany" was established—the study of all forms of the vegetable world which aboriginal peoples **use** for food, medicine, textiles, ornaments and more. The first individual to study the emic perspective of the plant world was a German physician working in Sarajevo at the end of the 19th century: Leop...
781. ...drawing erroneous conclusions. Anthropologists would often consult with primarily men. In Las Pavas, a small farming community in Panama, anthropologists drew conclusions about the entire community's **use** of plant from their conversations and lessons with mostly men. They consulted with 40 families, but the women only participated rarely in interviews and never joined them in the field. Due to the div...
782. ...alth care professional. Some side effects may occur if pessaries are not sized properly or regularly maintained, but with the appropriate care, pessaries are generally safe and well tolerated.  Early **use** of pessaries dates back to the ancient Egyptians, as they described using pessaries to treat pelvic organ prolapse. The term 'pessary' itself, is derived from the Ancient Greek word 'pessós', meaning...
783. ...ed as making oval pessaries from hammered brass and waxed cork. Nowadays, pessaries are generally made from silicone and are well tolerated and effective among patients who need them. The most common **use** for pessaries is to treat pelvic organ prolapse. A pelvic organ prolapse can occur when the muscles and tissues surrounding the bladder, uterus, vagina, small bowel, and rectum stop working properly...
784. ...y can be used to treat this condition and support the uterus. Preterm birth is when babies are born prematurely, which puts the baby at increased risk for complications and even death. Currently, the **use** of pessaries to help prevent preterm birth is an ongoing area of research. The use of pessaries for an incompetent cervix is not commonly practiced today, but they have been used in the past. Specifi...
785. ...babies are born prematurely, which puts the baby at increased risk for complications and even death. Currently, the use of pessaries to help prevent preterm birth is an ongoing area of research. The **use** of pessaries for an incompetent cervix is not commonly practiced today, but they have been used in the past. Specifically, an incompetent cervix is when the cervix begins to open up prematurely. This...
786. ...mmon uses of pharmaceutical pessaries. They are also known as vaginal suppositories, which are inserted into the vagina and are designed to dissolve at body temperature. They usually contain a single **use** antifungal agent such as clotrimazole. Oral antifungal agents are also available. Pessaries can also be used in a similar way to help induce labor for women who have overdue expected delivery dates o...
787. ...ample, the pessary can become embedded into the vagina, which makes it harder to remove. Estrogen can decrease the inflammation of the vaginal walls and promote skin cells in the vagina to mature, so **use** of estrogen cream can allow removal of the pessary more easily. In rare cases, pessaries would need to be removed through surgical procedures. To prevent complications, individuals should not use pes...
788. ...so use of estrogen cream can allow removal of the pessary more easily. In rare cases, pessaries would need to be removed through surgical procedures. To prevent complications, individuals should not **use** pessaries if they have characteristics that exclude them from this method of therapy. Contraindications to pessary use include current infections in the pelvis or vagina, or allergies to the material...
789. ...ed through surgical procedures. To prevent complications, individuals should not use pessaries if they have characteristics that exclude them from this method of therapy. Contraindications to pessary **use** include current infections in the pelvis or vagina, or allergies to the material of the pessary (which can be silicone or latex). In addition, individuals should not be fitted for a pessary if they a...
790. ...In addition, individuals should not be fitted for a pessary if they are less likely to properly maintain their pessary. Cheminformatics Cheminformatics (also known as chemoinformatics) refers to the **use** of physical chemistry theory with computer and information science techniques—so called ""in silico"" techniques—in application to a range of descriptive and prescriptive problems in the field of che...
791. ...matched molecular pair analysis or prediction-driven MMPA which is coupled with QSAR model in order to identify activity cliff. Research chemical Research chemicals are chemical substances scientists **use** for medical and scientific research purposes. One characteristic of a research chemical is that it is for laboratory research use only; a research chemical is not intended for human or veterinary use...
792. ...search chemical Research chemicals are chemical substances scientists use for medical and scientific research purposes. One characteristic of a research chemical is that it is for laboratory research **use** only; a research chemical is not intended for human or veterinary use. This distinction is required on the labels of research chemicals and exempts them from regulation under parts 100-740 in Title 2...
793. ...use for medical and scientific research purposes. One characteristic of a research chemical is that it is for laboratory research use only; a research chemical is not intended for human or veterinary **use**. This distinction is required on the labels of research chemicals and exempts them from regulation under parts 100-740 in Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations (21CFR). Research agrochemicals a...
794. ...are created and evaluated to select effective substances for commercial off-the-shelf end-user products. Many research agrochemicals are never publicly marketed. Agricultural research chemicals often **use** sequential code names. Self-medication Self-medication, sometime called do-it-yourself (DIY) medicine, is a human behavior in which an individual uses a substance or any exogenous influence to self-a...
795. ...mon health issues at home. These do not require a doctor's prescription to obtain and, in some countries, are available in supermarkets and convenience stores. The field of psychology surrounding the **use** of psychoactive drugs is often specifically in relation to the use of recreational drugs, alcohol, comfort food, and other forms of behavior to alleviate symptoms of mental distress, stress and anxie...
796. ...tion to obtain and, in some countries, are available in supermarkets and convenience stores. The field of psychology surrounding the use of psychoactive drugs is often specifically in relation to the **use** of recreational drugs, alcohol, comfort food, and other forms of behavior to alleviate symptoms of mental distress, stress and anxiety, including mental illnesses or psychological trauma. Such treatm...
797. ...self-induced abortion. Other reasons for relying on DIY medical care is to avoid health care prices in the United States and anarchist beliefs.  Generally speaking, self-medication is defined as "the **use** of drugs to treat self-diagnosed disorders or symptoms, or the intermittent or continued use of a prescribed drug for chronic or recurrent disease or symptoms".<ref name='WHO/EDM/QSM/00.1'> </ref> Se...
798. ...prices in the United States and anarchist beliefs.  Generally speaking, self-medication is defined as "the use of drugs to treat self-diagnosed disorders or symptoms, or the intermittent or continued **use** of a prescribed drug for chronic or recurrent disease or symptoms".<ref name='WHO/EDM/QSM/00.1'> </ref> Self-medication can be defined as the use of drugs to treat an illness or symptom when the user...
799. ...sorders or symptoms, or the intermittent or continued use of a prescribed drug for chronic or recurrent disease or symptoms".<ref name='WHO/EDM/QSM/00.1'> </ref> Self-medication can be defined as the **use** of drugs to treat an illness or symptom when the user is not a medically qualified professional. The term is also used to include the use of drugs outside their license or off-label. As different dru...
800. ...O/EDM/QSM/00.1'> </ref> Self-medication can be defined as the use of drugs to treat an illness or symptom when the user is not a medically qualified professional. The term is also used to include the **use** of drugs outside their license or off-label. As different drugs have different effects, they may be used for different reasons. According to the self-medication hypothesis (SMH), the individuals' cho...
801. ...bility. The self-medication hypothesis (SMH) originated in papers by Edward Khantzian, Mack and Schatzberg, David F. Duncan, and a response to Khantzian by Duncan. The SMH initially focused on heroin **use**, but a follow-up paper added cocaine. The SMH was later expanded to include alcohol, and finally all drugs of addiction. According to Khantzian's view of addiction, drug users compensate for deficien...
802. ...the "high feeling", approval from peers), negative reinforcement (e.g. reduction of negative affect) and avoidance of withdrawal symptoms, all of which are seen in those who develop problematic drug **use**, but are not all found in all recreational drug users. While earlier behavioral formulations of drug dependence using operant conditioning maintained that positive and negative reinforcement were nec...
803. ...ease process, through stressors and lack of support. Khantzian revisited the SMH, suggesting there is more evidence that psychiatric symptoms, rather than personality styles, lie at the heart of drug **use** disorders. Khantzian specified that the two crucial aspects of the SMH were that (1) drugs of abuse produce a relief from psychological suffering and (2) the individual's preference for a particular...
804. ...chological turmoil, and underlying personality traits identify the drug that produces the desired effects. Meanwhile, Duncan's work focuses on the difference between recreational and problematic drug **use**. Data obtained in the Epidemiologic Catchment Area Study demonstrated that only 20% of drug users ever experience an episode of drug abuse (Anthony & Helzer, 1991), while data obtained from the Natio...
805. ...m, and taking the drug is reinforced as an operant behavior. Some people who have a mental illness attempt to correct their illnesses by using certain drugs. Depression is often self-medicated by the **use** of alcohol, tobacco, cannabis, or other mind-altering drugs. While this may provide immediate relief of some symptoms such as anxiety, it may evoke and/or exacerbate some symptoms of several kinds of...
806. ...y evoke and/or exacerbate some symptoms of several kinds of mental illnesses that are already latently present, and may lead to addiction or physical dependency, among other side effects of long-term **use** of the drug. This does not differ significantly from the potential effects of drugs provided by physicians, which are equally capable of producing dependency and/or addiction and also have side effec...
807. ...t differ significantly from the potential effects of drugs provided by physicians, which are equally capable of producing dependency and/or addiction and also have side effects arising from long-term **use**. People with post-traumatic stress disorder have been known to self-medicate, as well as many individuals without this diagnosis who have experienced psychological trauma. Due to the different effect...
808. ...ns by attenuating intense emotions in high or obliterating doses, which allows them to express feelings of affection, aggression and closeness. Most patients that have been hospitalized for substance **use** or alcohol dependence reported using drugs in response to depressive symptoms. This type of misuse is more likely in men than in women. This makes diagnosing a psychiatric disorder very difficult in...
809. ...misuse is more likely in men than in women. This makes diagnosing a psychiatric disorder very difficult in substance abusers, because of self medicating. People with social anxiety disorder commonly **use** alcohol to overcome their highly set inhibitions. Psychostimulants, such as cocaine, amphetamines, methylphenidate, caffeine, and nicotine, produce improvements in physical and mental functioning, in...
810. ...e's life, so stimulants may be useful for treating treatment-resistant depression, especially in individuals thought to have ADHD. The SMH also hypothesizes that hyperactive and hypomanic individuals **use** stimulants to maintain their restlessness and heighten euphoria. Additionally, stimulants are useful to individuals with social anxiety by helping individuals break through their inhibitions. Some re...
811. ...r restlessness and heighten euphoria. Additionally, stimulants are useful to individuals with social anxiety by helping individuals break through their inhibitions. Some reviews suggest that students **use** psychostimulants to self medicate for underlying conditions, such as ADHD, depression or anxiety. Opiates, such as heroin and morphine, function as an analgesic by binding to opioid receptors in the...
812. ...s paradoxical in that it simultaneously produces stimulating, sedating and mildly psychedelic properties and both anxiolytic or anxiogenic properties, depending on the individual and circumstances of **use**. Depressant properties are more obvious in occasional users, and stimulating properties are more common in chronic users. Khantzian noted that research had not sufficiently addressed a theoretical me...
813. ...olonged periods of time with benzodiazepines or alcohol often makes the symptoms of anxiety or depression worse. This is believed to occur as a result of the changes in brain chemistry from long-term **use**. Of those who seek help from mental health services for conditions including anxiety disorders such as panic disorder or social phobia, approximately half have alcohol or benzodiazepine dependence is...
814. ...people with mental illness, and is a form of self-medication. This claim has been criticised by independent researchers. Self medicating is a very common precursor to full addictions and the habitual **use** of any addictive drug has been demonstrated to greatly increase the risk of addiction to additional substances due to long-term neuronal changes. Addiction to any/every drug of abuse tested so far ha...
815. ...ally across all documented addiction syndromes. This long-term dysregulation of glutamate transmission is associated with an increase in vulnerability to both relapse-events after re-exposure to drug-**use** triggers as well as an overall increase in the likelihood of developing addiction to other reinforcing drugs. Drugs which help to re-stabilize the glutamate system such as N-acetylcysteine have been...
816. ...loxacin, which can cause tendonitis, tendon rupture and aortic dissection) and, secondly, broad microbial resistance and when to seek medical care if the infection is not clearing. Also inappropriate **use** of over-the-counter ibuprofen or other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs during winter influenza outbreaks can lead to death, e.g. due to haemorrhagic duodenitis induced by ibuprofen, or the conse...
817. ...ling transient and localized expression of immunostimulatory molecules. In vitro transcribed (IVT) mRNA allows for delivery to various accessible cell types via the blood or alternative pathways. The **use** of IVT mRNA serves to convey specific genetic information into a person's cells, with the primary objective of preventing or altering a particular disease. Phenotypic drug discovery is a traditional...
818. ...anics methods may also be used to provide semi-quantitative prediction of the binding affinity. Also, knowledge-based scoring function may be used to provide binding affinity estimates. These methods **use** linear regression, machine learning, neural nets or other statistical techniques to derive predictive binding affinity equations by fitting experimental affinities to computationally derived interact...
819. ...can accommodate drug sized molecules that also possess appropriate "hot spots" (hydrophobic surfaces, hydrogen bonding sites, etc.) that drive ligand binding. Structure-based drug design attempts to **use** the structure of proteins as a basis for designing new ligands by applying the principles of molecular recognition. Selective high affinity binding to the target is generally desirable since it leads...
820. ...e effects. Thus, one of the most important principles for designing or obtaining potential new ligands is to predict the binding affinity of a certain ligand to its target (and known antitargets) and **use** the predicted affinity as a criterion for selection. One early general-purposed empirical scoring function to describe the binding energy of ligands to receptors was developed by Böhm. This empirical...
821. ...but more general "global" model or a more restricted set of ligands and receptors to produce a more accurate but less general "local" model. A particular example of rational drug design involves the **use** of three-dimensional information about biomolecules obtained from such techniques as X-ray crystallography and NMR spectroscopy. Computer-aided drug design in particular becomes much more tractable w...
822. ...abeling of over-the-counter drugs or of drugs approved prior to June 30, 2001. Australia has a slightly different pregnancy category system from the United States. The categorisation of medicines for **use** in pregnancy does not follow a hierarchical structure. The system, as outlined below, was developed by medical and scientific experts based on available evidence of risks associated with taking parti...
823. ...e converted into one of three products: The reactions that produce, consume, and regenerate SAM are called the SAM cycle. In the first step of this cycle, the SAM-dependent methylases (EC 2.1.1) that **use** SAM as a substrate produce "S"-adenosyl homocysteine as a product. "S"-Adenosyl homocysteine is a strong negative regulator of nearly all SAM-dependent methylases despite their biological diversity....
824. ...tases, lysine 2,3-aminomutase, and various enzymes of cofactor biosynthesis, peptide modification, metalloprotein cluster formation, tRNA modification, lipid metabolism, etc. Some radical SAM enzymes **use** a second SAM as a methyl donor. Radical SAM enzymes are much more abundant in anaerobic bacteria than in aerobic organisms. They can be found in all domains of life and are largely unexplored. A rece...
825. ...acy and safety. A 2016 Cochrane review concluded that for major depressive disorder, "Given the absence of high quality evidence and the inability to draw firm conclusions based on that evidence, the **use** of SAMe for the treatment of depression in adults should be investigated further." A 2020 systematic review found that it performed significantly better than placebo, and had similar outcomes to othe...
826. ...the beta blocker drugs propranolol and atenolol share the stem "-olol" (as a suffix), and the benzodiazepine drugs lorazepam and diazepam share the stem "-azepam" (also a suffix) The list of stems in **use** are collected in a publication informally known as the "Stem Book". Some examples of stems are: The School of INN is a WHO International Nonproprietary Name Programme initiative launched in 2019, whi...
827. ...th Africa), University of Eastern Piedmont (Italy), Université Grenoble Alpes (France) and University Ramon Lull and University of Alcalá in Spain. These pilot sites are involved in disseminating the **use** of INN, teaching based on INN and related research activities. The term "stem" is not used consistently in linguistics. It has been defined as a form to which affixes (of any type) can be attached. U...
828. ...sions from drug interactions. To facilitate the translation and pronunciation of INN, "f" should be used instead of "ph", "t" instead of "th", "e" instead of "ae" or "oe", and "i" instead of "y"; the **use** of the letters "h" and "k" should be avoided. Thus a predictable spelling system, approximating phonemic orthography, is used, as follows: Many drugs are supplied as salts, with a cation and an anion...
829. ...nd medical devices. These guidelines provide minimum requirements that a manufacturer must meet to assure that their products are consistently high in quality, from batch to batch, for their intended **use**. Good Manufacturing Practice emerged in response to serious incidents of harm caused by contaminated, adulterated, or improperly manufactured products. Major incidents include:  deaths from Elixir Su...
830. ...anufacture has been well documented, that personnel are well trained, and that the product has been checked for quality more than just at the end phase. GMP is typically ensured through the effective **use** of a quality management system (QMS). Good manufacturing practice, along with good agricultural practice, good laboratory practice and good clinical practice, are overseen by regulatory agencies in t...
831. ...er countries. Good manufacturing practice guidelines provide guidance for manufacturing, testing, and quality assurance in order to ensure that a manufactured product is safe for human consumption or **use**. Many countries have legislated that manufacturers follow GMP procedures and create their own GMP guidelines that correspond with their legislation. All guidelines follow a few basic principles: Good...
832. ...portant and how to assess the current situation within a site or organization. GMP is enforced in the United States by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), under Title 21 CFR. The regulations **use** the phrase "current good manufacturing practices" (CGMP) to describe these guidelines. Courts may theoretically hold that a product is adulterated even if there is no specific regulatory requirement...
833. ...just under the skin. Common side effects include fever, infection, cough, headache, trouble sleeping, and rash. Other severe side effects include heart failure, allergic reactions, and lung disease. **Use** during pregnancy may harm the baby. Trastuzumab works by binding to the HER2 receptor and slowing down cell replication. Trastuzumab was approved for medical use in the United States in September 199...
834. ...allergic reactions, and lung disease. Use during pregnancy may harm the baby. Trastuzumab works by binding to the HER2 receptor and slowing down cell replication. Trastuzumab was approved for medical **use** in the United States in September 1998, and in the European Union in August 2000. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. The safety and efficacy of trastuzumab-containi...
835. ...chanism of action. Trastuzumab inhibits the effects of overexpression of HER2. If the breast cancer does not overexpress HER2, trastuzumab will have no beneficial effect (and may cause harm). Doctors **use** laboratory tests to discover whether HER2 is overexpressed. In the routine clinical laboratory, the most commonly employed methods for this are immunohistochemistry (IHC) and either silver, chromogen...
836. ...United States in December 2017, to "treat people with breast cancer or gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma whose tumors overexpress the HER-2 gene." Ogivri was authorized for medical **use** in the European Union in December 2018. In November 2017, the European Commission authorized Ontruzant, a biosimilar from Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd, for the treatment of early breast cancer, metastati...
837. ...cancer, metastatic breast cancer and metastatic gastric cancer. Ontruzant is the first trastuzumab biosimilar to receive regulatory approval in the European Union. Herzuma was authorized for medical **use** in the European Union in February 2018. Herzuma, a trastuzumab biosimilar, was approved in the United States in December 2018. The approval was based on comparisons of extensive structural and functi...
838. ...ty, and other clinical data demonstrating that Herzuma is biosimilar to US Herceptin. Herzuma has been approved as a biosimilar, not as an interchangeable product. Kanjinti was authorized for medical **use** in the European Union in May 2018. Trazimera was authorized for medical use in the European Union in July 2018. Ogivri was approved for medical use in Canada in May 2019. Trazimera was approved for m...
839. ...erceptin. Herzuma has been approved as a biosimilar, not as an interchangeable product. Kanjinti was authorized for medical use in the European Union in May 2018. Trazimera was authorized for medical **use** in the European Union in July 2018. Ogivri was approved for medical use in Canada in May 2019. Trazimera was approved for medical use in Canada in August 2019. Herzuma was approved for medical use in...
840. ...geable product. Kanjinti was authorized for medical use in the European Union in May 2018. Trazimera was authorized for medical use in the European Union in July 2018. Ogivri was approved for medical **use** in Canada in May 2019. Trazimera was approved for medical use in Canada in August 2019. Herzuma was approved for medical use in Canada in September 2019. Kanjinti was approved for medical use in Cana...
841. ...European Union in May 2018. Trazimera was authorized for medical use in the European Union in July 2018. Ogivri was approved for medical use in Canada in May 2019. Trazimera was approved for medical **use** in Canada in August 2019. Herzuma was approved for medical use in Canada in September 2019. Kanjinti was approved for medical use in Canada in February 2020. Zercepac was authorized for medical use i...
842. ...al use in the European Union in July 2018. Ogivri was approved for medical use in Canada in May 2019. Trazimera was approved for medical use in Canada in August 2019. Herzuma was approved for medical **use** in Canada in September 2019. Kanjinti was approved for medical use in Canada in February 2020. Zercepac was authorized for medical use in the European Union in July 2020. Trastucip and Tuzucip were a...
843. ...medical use in Canada in May 2019. Trazimera was approved for medical use in Canada in August 2019. Herzuma was approved for medical use in Canada in September 2019. Kanjinti was approved for medical **use** in Canada in February 2020. Zercepac was authorized for medical use in the European Union in July 2020. Trastucip and Tuzucip were approved for medical use in Australia in July 2022. In September 202...
844. ...l use in Canada in August 2019. Herzuma was approved for medical use in Canada in September 2019. Kanjinti was approved for medical use in Canada in February 2020. Zercepac was authorized for medical **use** in the European Union in July 2020. Trastucip and Tuzucip were approved for medical use in Australia in July 2022. In September 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the...
845. ...ber 2019. Kanjinti was approved for medical use in Canada in February 2020. Zercepac was authorized for medical use in the European Union in July 2020. Trastucip and Tuzucip were approved for medical **use** in Australia in July 2022. In September 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a mar...
846. ...ed for medical use in the European Union in July 2020. Trastucip and Tuzucip were approved for medical use in Australia in July 2022. In September 2023, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human **Use** (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Herwenda, intended for the treatment of HER2-posit...
847. ...for the medicinal product Herwenda, intended for the treatment of HER2-positive breast and gastric cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sandoz GmbH. Herwenda was authorized for medical **use** in the European Union in November 2023. Trastuzumab-strf (Hercessi) was approved for medical use in the United States in April 2024. In July 2024, the CHMP adopted a positive opinion, recommending th...
848. ...c cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Sandoz GmbH. Herwenda was authorized for medical use in the European Union in November 2023. Trastuzumab-strf (Hercessi) was approved for medical **use** in the United States in April 2024. In July 2024, the CHMP adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Tuznue, intended for the treatm...
849. ...or the treatment of breast and gastric cancer. The applicant for this medicinal product is Prestige Biopharma Belgium BVBA. Tuznue is a biosimilar medicinal product. Tuznue was authorized for medical **use** in the European Union in September 2024. Trastuzumab is also a component of some antibody-drug conjugates, such as trastuzumab emtansine, and trastuzumab deruxtecan. Nebulizer In medicine, a nebulize...
850. ...o administer medication in the form of a mist inhaled into the lungs. Nebulizers are commonly used for the treatment of asthma, cystic fibrosis, COPD and other respiratory diseases or disorders. They **use** oxygen, compressed air or ultrasonic power to break up solutions and suspensions into small aerosol droplets that are inhaled from the mouthpiece of the device. An aerosol is a mixture of gas and sol...
851. ...mend metered dose inhalers in place of nebulizer-delivered therapies. The European Respiratory Society acknowledge that although nebulizers are used in hospitals and at home they suggest much of this **use** may not be evidence-based. Recent evidence shows that nebulizers are no more effective than metered-dose inhalers (MDIs) with spacers. An MDI with a spacer may offer advantages to children who have a...
852. ...recent data suggests actual lung deposition rates are the same. In addition, another trial found that a MDI (with spacer) had a lower required dose for clinical result compared to a nebulizer. Beyond **use** in chronic lung disease, nebulizers may also be used to treat acute issues like the inhalation of toxic substances. One such example is the treatment of inhalation of toxic hydrofluoric acid (HF) vap...
853. ...o be a tendency among physicians to prefer prescription of a pressurized Metered Dose Inhaler (pMDI) for their patients, instead of a jet nebulizer that generates a lot more noise (often 60 dB during **use**) and is less portable due to a greater weight. However, jet nebulizers are commonly used in hospitals for patients who have difficulty using inhalers, such as in serious cases of respiratory disease,...
854. ...us cases of respiratory disease, or severe asthma attacks. The main advantage of the jet nebulizer is related to its low operational cost. If the patient needs to inhale medicine on a daily basis the **use** of a pMDI can be rather expensive. Today several manufacturers have also managed to lower the weight of the jet nebulizer to just over half a kilogram (just under one and a half pounds), and therefor...
855. ...evious technologies, most manufacturers continue to also sell the classic jet nebulizers. Nebulizers accept their medicine in the form of a liquid solution, which is often loaded into the device upon **use**. Corticosteroids and bronchodilators such as salbutamol ("albuterol" USAN) are often used, and sometimes in combination with ipratropium. The reason these pharmaceuticals are inhaled instead of inges...
856. ...ine is inhaled through a tube-like mouthpiece, similar to that of an inhaler. The mouthpiece, however, is sometimes replaced with a face mask, similar to that used for inhaled anesthesia, for ease of **use** with young children or the elderly. Pediatric masks are often shaped like animals such as fish, dogs or dragons to make children less resistant to nebulizer treatments. Many nebulizer manufacturers a...
857. ...to make children less resistant to nebulizer treatments. Many nebulizer manufacturers also offer pacifier attachments for infants and toddlers. But mouthpieces are preferable if patients are able to **use** them since face-masks result in reduced lung delivery because of aerosol losses in the nose. After use with corticosteroid, it is theoretically possible for patients to develop a yeast infection in t...
858. ...ier attachments for infants and toddlers. But mouthpieces are preferable if patients are able to use them since face-masks result in reduced lung delivery because of aerosol losses in the nose. After **use** with corticosteroid, it is theoretically possible for patients to develop a yeast infection in the mouth (thrush) or hoarseness of voice (dysphonia), although these conditions are clinically very rar...
859. ...al liquid (typically epinephrine chloride, used as a bronchial muscle relaxant to reverse constriction). As an alternative to the expensive electrical nebulizer, many people in the 1930s continued to **use** the much more simple and cheap hand-driven nebulizer, known as the Parke-Davis Glaseptic. In 1956, a technology competing against the nebulizer was launched by Riker Laboratories (3M), in the form of...
860. ...n type of electronic cigarettes currently sold, however, omit the ultrasonic wave nebulizer, as it was not found to be efficient enough for this kind of device. Instead, the electronic cigarettes now **use** an electric vaporizer, either in direct contact with the absorbent material in the "impregnated atomizer," or in combination with the nebulization technology related to a "spraying jet atomizer" (in...
861. ...ate all these devices into one combined freestanding unit, which is colloquially referred to as the "anaesthetic machine" for the sake of simplicity. In the developed world, the most frequent type in **use** is the continuous-flow anaesthetic machine or "Boyle's machine", which is designed to provide an accurate supply of medical gases mixed with an accurate concentration of anaesthetic vapour, and to de...
862. ...was popularised by Boyle's anaesthetic machine, invented by the British anaesthetist Henry Boyle at St Bartholomew's Hospital in London, United Kingdom, in 1917, although similar machines had been in **use** in France and the United States. Prior to this time, anaesthesiologists often carried all their equipment with them, but the development of heavy, bulky cylinder storage and increasingly elaborate ai...
863. ...quipment, such as the Magill attachment, require high fresh gas flows (e.g. 7 litres/min) to prevent the patient from rebreathing their own expired carbon dioxide. Recirculating (rebreather) systems, **use** soda lime to absorb carbon dioxide, in the scrubber, so that expired gas becomes suitable to re-use. With a very efficient recirculation system, the fresh gas flow may be reduced to the patient's min...
864. ...the patient from rebreathing their own expired carbon dioxide. Recirculating (rebreather) systems, use soda lime to absorb carbon dioxide, in the scrubber, so that expired gas becomes suitable to re-**use**. With a very efficient recirculation system, the fresh gas flow may be reduced to the patient's minimum oxygen requirements (e.g. 250ml/min), plus a little volatile as needed to maintain the concentr...
865. ...ncentration of anaesthetic agent. Increasing fresh gas flow to a recirculating breathing system can reduce carbon dioxide absorbent consumption. There is a cost/benefit trade-off between gas flow and **use** of adsorbent material when no inhalational anaesthetic agent is used which may have economic and environmental consequences. An anesthetic vaporizer (American English) or anaesthetic vapouriser (Brit...
866. ...ion of volatile anesthetic vapor over a wide range of fresh gas flows. The plenum vaporizer is an elegant device which works reliably, without external power, for many hundreds of hours of continuous **use**, and requires very little maintenance. The plenum vaporizer works by accurately splitting the incoming gas into two streams. One of these streams passes straight through the vaporizer in the bypass c...
867. ...voir mounted in the breathing attachment. Drawover vaporizers may be used with any liquid volatile agent (including older agents such as diethyl ether or chloroform, although it would be dangerous to **use** desflurane). Because the performance of the vaporizer is so variable, accurate calibration is impossible. However, many designs have a lever which adjusts the amount of fresh gas which enters the vap...
868. ...y round, and may be used in circuits where re-breathing takes place, or inside the circle breathing attachment. Drawover vaporizers typically have no temperature compensating features. With prolonged **use**, the liquid agent may cool to the point where condensation and even frost may form on the outside of the reservoir. This cooling impairs the efficiency of the vaporizer. One way of minimising this ef...
869. ...fficient design would produce too much anesthetic vapor. The output concentration from a drawover vaporizer may greatly exceed that produced by a plenum vaporizer, especially at low flows. For safest **use**, the concentration of anesthetic vapor in the breathing attachment should be continuously monitored. Despite its drawbacks, the drawover vaporizer is cheap to manufacture and easy to use. In addition...
870. .... For safest use, the concentration of anesthetic vapor in the breathing attachment should be continuously monitored. Despite its drawbacks, the drawover vaporizer is cheap to manufacture and easy to **use**. In addition, its portable design means that it can be used in the field or in veterinary anesthesia. The third category of vaporizer (the dual-circuit gas–vapor blender) was created specifically for...
871. ...f popularity of desflurane, although in recent years it is gaining in popularity. Historically, ether (the first volatile agent) was first used by John Snow's inhaler (1847) but was superseded by the **use** of chloroform (1848). Ether then slowly made a revival (1862–1872) with regular use via Curt Schimmelbusch's "mask", a narcosis mask for dripping liquid ether. Now obsolete, it was a mask constructed...
872. ...storically, ether (the first volatile agent) was first used by John Snow's inhaler (1847) but was superseded by the use of chloroform (1848). Ether then slowly made a revival (1862–1872) with regular **use** via Curt Schimmelbusch's "mask", a narcosis mask for dripping liquid ether. Now obsolete, it was a mask constructed of wire, and covered with cloth. Pressure and demand from dental surgeons for a mor...
873. ...with a water jacket, and by the late 1899 alternatives to ether came to the fore, mainly due to the introduction of spinal anesthesia. Subsequently, this resulted in the decline of ether (1930–1956) **use** due to the introduction of cyclopropane, trichloroethylene, and halothane. By the 1980s, the anesthetic vaporizer had evolved considerably; subsequent modifications lead to a raft of additional safet...
874. ...a novel nanoparticle technology. In the context of hematological cancers, Val-ILs have the potential to be used as a precise and effective therapy based on targeted vesicle-mediated cell death.  The **use** of liposomes for transformation or transfection of DNA into a host cell is known as lipofection. In addition to gene and drug delivery applications, liposomes can be used as carriers for the delivery...
875. ...osomes; (3) The ability to create homogeneous liposome particle sizes that are stable and hold their encapsulated payload. These are the primary elements in developing effective liposome carriers for **use** in dietary and nutritional supplements. The choice of liposome preparation method depends, i.a., on the following parameters: Useful liposomes rarely form spontaneously. They typically form after sup...
876. ...ross" method of preparation as it can damage the structure of the drug to be encapsulated. Newer methods such as extrusion, micromixing and Mozafari method are employed to produce materials for human **use**. Using lipids other than phosphatidylcholine can greatly facilitate liposome preparation. Further advances in liposome research have been able to allow liposomes to avoid detection by the body's immu...
877. ...to target specific lipids of the host cells membrane and can be baited and neutralized by liposomes containing those specific lipid targets. A study published in May 2018 also explored the potential **use** of liposomes as "nano-carriers" of fertilizing nutrients to treat malnourished or sickly plants. Results showed that these synthetic particles "soak into plant leaves more easily than naked nutrients...
878. ...opioid painkillers. At doses around one-tenth of the typical dose, naltrexone has been used for pain relief. Low-dose naltrexone is believed to have an anti-inflammatory effect. This is an off-label **use** and not widely accepted by the medical and scientific community. Diphenhydramine (often referred to by the trade name Benadryl) is an anticholinergic antihistamine medicine commonly used to treat all...
879. ...also used to treat insomnia. Diphenhydramine is also used off-label for its sedative properties, particularly by parents seeking to make their children sedated or sleep during long-haul flights. This **use** of diphenhydramine has been criticized for a number of reasons, ranging from ethical to safety concerns, but also due to the risk of diphenhydramine's paradoxical reaction, which induces hyperactivit...
880. ...g from ethical to safety concerns, but also due to the risk of diphenhydramine's paradoxical reaction, which induces hyperactivity and irritability. This phenomenon can also be observed in adults who **use** the medication as a sleep aid. The prevalence of this paradoxical reaction is unknown, but research into the phenomenon suggests that it may be as a result of the medicine's interactions with the CYP...
881. ...or, thus initiating a biochemical mechanism for change within a cell. Antagonists were thought to turn "off" that response by 'blocking' the receptor from the agonist. This definition also remains in **use** for physiological antagonists, substances that have opposing physiological actions, but act at different receptors. For example, histamine lowers arterial pressure through vasodilation at the histami...
882. ...me scientific fields, are the two types of chirality ("handedness") or relative direction. The terms are derived from the Latin words for "left" ("sinister") and "right" ("dexter"). Other disciplines **use** different terms (such as dextro- and laevo-rotary in chemistry, or clockwise and anticlockwise in physics) or simply use left and right (as in anatomy). Relative direction and chirality are distinct...
883. ...Latin words for "left" ("sinister") and "right" ("dexter"). Other disciplines use different terms (such as dextro- and laevo-rotary in chemistry, or clockwise and anticlockwise in physics) or simply **use** left and right (as in anatomy). Relative direction and chirality are distinct concepts. Relative direction is from the point of view of the observer; a completely symmetric object has a left side and...
884. ...fault the right side moves toward the observer. Drug tolerance Drug tolerance or drug insensitivity is a pharmacological concept describing subjects' reduced reaction to a drug following its repeated **use**. Increasing its dosage may re-amplify the drug's effects; however, this may accelerate tolerance, further reducing the drug's effects. Drug tolerance is indicative of drug use but is not necessarily...
885. ...following its repeated use. Increasing its dosage may re-amplify the drug's effects; however, this may accelerate tolerance, further reducing the drug's effects. Drug tolerance is indicative of drug **use** but is not necessarily associated with drug dependence or addiction. The process of tolerance development is reversible (e.g., through a drug holiday) and can involve both physiological factors and p...
886. ...'s allergic reactions) is called drug desensitization. The opposite concept to drug tolerance is reverse tolerance, in which case the subject's reaction or effect will increase following its repeated **use**. The two notions are not incompatible and tolerance may sometimes lead to reverse tolerance. For example, heavy drinkers initially develop tolerance to alcohol (requiring them to drink larger amounts...
887. ...referring to cases of sudden, short-term onset of tolerance following the administration of a drug. Pharmacodynamic tolerance begins when the cellular response to a substance is reduced with repeated **use**. A common cause of pharmacodynamic tolerance is high concentrations of a substance constantly binding with the receptor, desensitizing it through constant interaction. Other possibilities include a r...
888. ...s most evident with oral ingestion, because other routes of drug administration bypass first-pass metabolism. Enzyme induction is partly responsible for the phenomenon of tolerance, in which repeated **use** of a drug leads to a reduction of the drug's effect. However, it is only one of several mechanisms leading to tolerance. Behavioral tolerance occurs with the use of certain psychoactive drugs, where...
889. ...menon of tolerance, in which repeated use of a drug leads to a reduction of the drug's effect. However, it is only one of several mechanisms leading to tolerance. Behavioral tolerance occurs with the **use** of certain psychoactive drugs, where tolerance to a behavioral effect of a drug, such as increased motor activity by methamphetamine, occurs with repeated use. It may occur through drug-independent l...
890. ...ce. Behavioral tolerance occurs with the use of certain psychoactive drugs, where tolerance to a behavioral effect of a drug, such as increased motor activity by methamphetamine, occurs with repeated **use**. It may occur through drug-independent learning or as a form of pharmacodynamic tolerance in the brain; the former mechanism of behavioral tolerance occurs when one learns how to actively overcome dr...
891. ...lity refers to the preference most humans show for one side of their body over the other. Examples include left-handedness/right-handedness and left/right-footedness; it may also refer to the primary **use** of the left or right hemisphere in the brain. It may also apply to animals or plants. The majority of tests have been conducted on humans, specifically to determine the effects on language. Most huma...
892. ...ts. The majority of tests have been conducted on humans, specifically to determine the effects on language. Most humans are right-handed. Many are also right-sided in general (that is, they prefer to **use** their right eye, right foot and right ear if forced to make a choice between the two). The reasons for this are not fully understood, but it is thought that because the left cerebral hemisphere of th...
893. ...cted to European cultures: for example, Chinese characters are designed for right-handers to write, and no significant left-handed culture has ever been found in the world. When a person is forced to **use** the hand opposite of the hand that they would naturally use, this is known as "forced laterality", or more specifically "forced dextrality". A study done by the Department of Neurology at Keele Unive...
894. ...re designed for right-handers to write, and no significant left-handed culture has ever been found in the world. When a person is forced to use the hand opposite of the hand that they would naturally **use**, this is known as "forced laterality", or more specifically "forced dextrality". A study done by the Department of Neurology at Keele University, North Staffordshire Royal Infirmary suggests that for...
895. ...when a person has approximately equal skill with both hands and/or both sides of the body. True ambidexterity is very rare. Although a small number of people can write competently with both hands and **use** both sides of their body well, even these people usually show preference for one side of their body over the other. However, this preference is not necessarily consistent for all activities. Some peo...
896. ...dy well, even these people usually show preference for one side of their body over the other. However, this preference is not necessarily consistent for all activities. Some people may, for instance, **use** their right hand for writing, and their left hand for playing racket sports and eating ("see also:" cross-dominance). Also, it is not uncommon that people preferring to use the right hand prefer to u...
897. ...people may, for instance, use their right hand for writing, and their left hand for playing racket sports and eating ("see also:" cross-dominance). Also, it is not uncommon that people preferring to **use** the right hand prefer to use the left leg, e.g. when using a shovel, kicking a ball, or operating control pedals. In many cases, this may be because they are disposed for left-handedness but have bee...
898. ...e their right hand for writing, and their left hand for playing racket sports and eating ("see also:" cross-dominance). Also, it is not uncommon that people preferring to use the right hand prefer to **use** the left leg, e.g. when using a shovel, kicking a ball, or operating control pedals. In many cases, this may be because they are disposed for left-handedness but have been trained for right-handednes...
899. ...ely responsible for processing positive, approach-related emotions. This has been called the "laterality-valence hypothesis". One sub-set of laterality in animals is limb dominance. Preferential limb **use** for specific tasks has been shown in species including chimpanzees, mice, bats, wallabies, parrots, chickens and toads. Another form of laterality is hemispheric dominance for processing conspecific...
900. ...ty in at least two areas of neural organization, i.e. sensory and motor. In thoroughbreds, the strength of motor laterality increases with age. Horses under 4 years old have a preference to initially **use** the right nostril during olfaction. Along with olfaction, French horses have an eye laterality when looking at novel objects. There is a correlation between their score on an emotional index and eye...
901. ...l objects using the right eye, however, this tendency is absent in the trotters, although the emotive index is the same for both breeds. Racehorses exhibit laterality in stride patterns as well. They **use** their preferred stride pattern at all times whether racing or not, unless they are forced to change it while turning, injured, or fatigued. In domestic dogs ("Canis familiaris"), there is a correlati...
902. ...e dog may be better at walking to the left or the right of their blind owner. Domestic cats ("Felis catus") show an individual handedness when reaching for static food. In one study, 46% preferred to **use** the right paw, 44% the left, and 10% were ambi-lateral; 60% used one paw 100% of the time. There was no difference between male and female cats in the proportions of left and right paw preferences. I...
903. ...ees show right-handedness in certain conditions. This is expressed at the population level for females, but not males. The complexity of the task has a dominant effect on handedness in chimps. Cattle **use** visual/brain lateralisation in their visual scanning of novel and familiar stimuli. Domestic cattle prefer to view novel stimuli with the left eye, (similar to horses, Australian magpies, chicks, toa...
904. ...eralisation in their visual scanning of novel and familiar stimuli. Domestic cattle prefer to view novel stimuli with the left eye, (similar to horses, Australian magpies, chicks, toads and fish) but **use** the right eye for viewing familiar stimuli. Schreibers' long-fingered bat is lateralized at the population level and shows a left-hand bias for climbing or grasping. Some types of mastodon indicate l...
905. ...ndently and can prescribe drugs directly to patients. A PharmD program has significant experiential and/or clinical education components in introductory and advanced levels for the safe and effective **use** of drugs. Experiential education prepares graduates to be practice-ready, as they already have spent a significant amount of time training in areas of direct patient care and research. In Algeria, Do...
906. ...ly minimum educational qualification required for the cadre is the PharmD. The Clinical Pharmacist must also assist the physician and other medical representatives to promote the wellness and correct **use** of medications for patients. Nepal started three years post baccalaureate Pharm.D in 2010 in Department of Pharmacy, Kathmandu University, Dhulikhel, Kavre. It is the first batch in Nepal pursuing th...
907. ...aster years. A bachelor title is, however, not used at all professionally. The Dutch consider the educational level of their current (M.Sc.) degree in pharmacy to be comparable to the PharmD-title in **use** in the United States. Before the harmonization, a four-year Master of Science was superseded by two more years of university education preparing for pharmacy practice. To become a hospital pharmacist...
908. ...insertion of one atom of oxygen into the aliphatic position of an organic substrate (RH), while the other oxygen atom is reduced to water: Many hydroxylation reactions (insertion of hydroxyl groups) **use** CYP enzymes, but many other hydroxylases exist. Alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent hydroxylases also rely on an Fe=O intermediate but lack hemes. Methane monooxygenase, which converts methane to methanol,...
909. ...eliver. Prior to sale in the United States, any transdermal patch product must apply for and receive approval from the Food and Drug Administration, demonstrating safety and efficacy for its intended **use**. Bioavailability In pharmacology, bioavailability is a subcategory of absorption and is the fraction (%) of an administered drug that reaches the systemic circulation. By definition, when a medicatio...
910. ...individual (inter-individual variation). Therefore, bioavailability for dietary supplements can be defined as the proportion of the administered substance capable of being absorbed and available for **use** or storage. In both pharmacology and nutrition sciences, bioavailability is measured by calculating the area under curve (AUC) of the drug concentration time profile. Bioavailability is the measure b...
911. ...lcitabine was the third antiretroviral to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of HIV/AIDS. It was approved on June 19, 1992, as a monotherapy and again in 1996 for **use** in combination with zidovudine (AZT). Using combinations of NRTIs was in practice prior to the second FDA approval and the triple drug combinations with dual NRTIs and a protease inhibitor (PI) were...
912. ...utical benefits. A new "Pharmaceutical Benefits Act 1947" was subsequently passed. However, ongoing resistance by the medical profession forced amendments to provisions that required practitioners to **use** Commonwealth prescription forms or face a fine. Again the BMA challenged the Act and again the High Court found it unconstitutional. In November 1947, under Section 15 of the 1947 Act, the Commonweal...
913. ...ssion) under the "Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth)". A benefit under PBS is only given on medications which are listed in the Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule. The medication may be listed for general **use** as an unrestricted benefit, or for a specific indication as a restricted benefit. When a PBS medication is dispensed by a pharmacist, the patient pays the patient contribution (subject to concessions...
914. ...BS Authority prescription from Medicare Australia. Since 2002, a Medicare card has been required to be shown at a pharmacy when collecting PBS medications. The pharmacy can retain the card number for **use** when the cardholder returns with another prescription. The Prescription Shopping Programme (PSP) has been set up to identify patients who may be getting more PBS subsidised medicines than they need,...
915. ...The principles that are applied during the evaluation of drugs for PBS listing are described in the PBAC Guidelines. Drugs that have unrestricted benefit listing on the PBS are available for general **use** without being limited to particular indications. Such items are typically those whose use in clinical practice is widely accepted. Examples include methotrexate, prednisone and amoxycillin. Certain m...
916. ...bed in the PBAC Guidelines. Drugs that have unrestricted benefit listing on the PBS are available for general use without being limited to particular indications. Such items are typically those whose **use** in clinical practice is widely accepted. Examples include methotrexate, prednisone and amoxycillin. Certain medications listed on the PBS are available only for specific therapeutic indications or to...
917. ...teria such a pathology test results are usually required. Some drugs may have Authority Required (Streamlined) status which does not require an explicit approval from Medicare, instead the doctor can **use** the Authority code found in the published Schedule for a given drug/indication. In 2016, 17 types of medication were removed from the PBS, including Panadol Osteo, aspirin, iron/folic supplements, el...
918. ...between Services Australia, who hold the data for the PBS, and academics at Monash University, University of New South Wales, University of South Australia and the University of Western Australia to **use** the 10% sample for research purposes. Research outputs from these data have to be approved by Services Australia prior to publication. These data create a useful picture of all dispensed medicines in...
919. ...measuring the concentration of the solute in each solvent. The most common method of measuring the distribution of the solute is by UV/VIS spectroscopy. A faster method of log "P" determination makes **use** of high-performance liquid chromatography. The log "P" of a solute can be determined by correlating its retention time with similar compounds with known log "P" values. An advantage of this method is...
920. .... There are many situations where prediction of partition coefficients prior to experimental measurement is useful. For example, tens of thousands of industrially manufactured chemicals are in common **use**, but only a small fraction have undergone rigorous toxicological evaluation. Hence there is a need to prioritize the remainder for testing. QSAR equations, which in turn are based on calculated parti...
921. ...is generally recognized as safe by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as specified in the Code of Federal Regulations (21CFR184.1101). DATEM is approved by the European Food Safety Authority for **use** as food additive with the E number E472e. Linklaters Linklaters LLP is a British multinational law firm, headquartered in London, England. Founded in 1838, it is one of the four prestigious "Magic Ci...
922. ...be determined by at least one instance in the set (i.e. some conformation of the molecule). On June 18, 2011 the Comparative Molecular Field Analysis (CoMFA) patent has dropped any restriction on the **use** of GRID and partial least-squares (PLS) technologies. In this approach, descriptors quantifying various electronic, geometric, or steric properties of a molecule are computed and used to develop a QS...
923. ...ods. The biological activity of molecules is usually measured in assays to establish the level of inhibition of particular signal transduction or metabolic pathways. Drug discovery often involves the **use** of QSAR to identify chemical structures that could have good inhibitory effects on specific targets and have low toxicity (non-specific activity). Of special interest is the prediction of partition c...
924. ...latine); they are also used for medical applications. Physical crosslinks consist of hydrogen bonds, hydrophobic interactions, and chain entanglements (among others). A hydrogel generated through the **use** of physical crosslinks is sometimes called a 'reversible' hydrogel. Chemical crosslinks consist of covalent bonds between polymer strands. Hydrogels generated in this manner are sometimes called 'per...
925. ...polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, sodium polyacrylate, acrylate polymers and copolymers thereof. Whereas natural hydrogels are usually non-toxic, and often provide other advantages for medical **use**, such as biocompatibility, biodegradability, antibiotic/antifungal effect and improve regeneration of nearby tissue, their stability and strength is usually much lower than synthetic hydrogels. There...
926. ...n involves the oligopeptide precursors self-assemble into fibers that become elongated, and entangle to form cross-linked gels. One notable method of initiating a polymerization reaction involves the **use** of light as a stimulus. In this method, photoinitiators, compounds that cleave from the absorption of photons, are added to the precursor solution which will become the hydrogel. When the precursor s...
927. ...e properties of a hydrogel are highly dependent on the type and quantity of its crosslinks, making photopolymerization a popular choice for fine-tuning hydrogels. This technique has seen considerable **use** in cell and tissue engineering applications due to the ability to inject or mold a precursor solution loaded with cells into a wound site, then solidify it in situ. Physically crosslinked hydrogels c...
928. ...tions between collagen fibers become stronger than thermal molecular vibrations. Peptide based hydrogels possess exceptional biocompatibility and biodegradability qualities, giving rise to their wide **use** of applications, particularly in biomedicine; as such, their physical properties can be fine-tuned in order to maximise their use. Methods to do this are: modulation of the amino acid sequence, pH, c...
929. ...mpatibility and biodegradability qualities, giving rise to their wide use of applications, particularly in biomedicine; as such, their physical properties can be fine-tuned in order to maximise their **use**. Methods to do this are: modulation of the amino acid sequence, pH, chirality, and increasing the number of aromatic residues. The order of amino acids within the sequence is crucial for gelation, as...
930. ...Fmoc-Gly-Phe failed to do so as a result of the two adjacent aromatic moieties being moved, hindering the aromatic interactions. Altering the pH can also have similar effects, an example involved the **use** of the naphthalene (Nap) modified dipeptides Nap-Gly-Ala, and Nap- Ala-Gly, where a drop in pH induced gelation of the former, but led to crystallisation of the latter. A controlled pH decrease metho...
931. ...rolysis is slow, which allows for a uniform pH change, and thus resulting in reproducible homogenous gels. In addition to this, the desired pH can be achieved by altering the amount of GdL added. The **use** of GdL has been used various times for the hydrogelation of Fmoc and Nap-dipeptides. In another direction, Morris et al reported the use of GdL as a 'molecular trigger' to predict and control the ord...
932. ...ed pH can be achieved by altering the amount of GdL added. The use of GdL has been used various times for the hydrogelation of Fmoc and Nap-dipeptides. In another direction, Morris et al reported the **use** of GdL as a 'molecular trigger' to predict and control the order of gelation. Chirality also plays an essential role in gel formation, and even changing the chirality of a single amino acid from its...
933. ...hniques Hydrogels have been considered as vehicles for drug delivery. They can also be made to mimic animal mucosal tissues to be used for testing mucoadhesive properties. They have been examined for **use** as reservoirs in topical drug delivery; particularly ionic drugs, delivered by iontophoresis. Physicians' Desk Reference The Physicians' Desk Reference (PDR), renamed Prescriber's Digital Reference a...
934. ...of adsorbing rice polishings onto fuller's earth, for vitamin C a sample of lemon juice, for vitamin D a sample of irradiated ergosterol in oil. In 1935, the standards for A, C, and D were changed to **use** pure substances: pure beta-carotene in oil, crystalline ascorbic acid, and crystalline ergocalciferol. This same commission also established early standards for biologics (antitoxins, insulins, pitui...
935. ...using a pure, crystalline substance. The name "international unit" is often capitalized in English and other languages, although major English-language dictionaries treat it as a common noun and thus **use** lower case. The name has several accepted abbreviations. It is usually abbreviated as "IU" in English, and "UI" in Romance languages (for example Spanish "unidad internacional", Portuguese "unidade i...
936. ..., Hungarian NE, "nemzetközi egység"). In order to remove the possibility of having the letter "I" confused with the digit "1", some hospitals have it as a stated policy omit the "I", that is, to only **use** U or E when talking and writing about dosages, while other hospitals require the word "units" (or words "international units") to be written out entirely. (For example, "three international units per...
937. ...ty, professor Edward Bartow of the University of Iowa presented a commercially viable means of extracting large amounts of inositol from the phytic acid naturally present in waste corn. As a possible **use** for the chemical, he suggested 'inositol nitrate' as a more stable alternative to nitroglycerin. Today, inositol nitrate is used to gelatinize nitrocellulose in many modern explosives and solid rocke...
938. ...se two isomers are administered in their physiological ratio. The plasmatic ratio of "myo"-inositol and -"chiro"-inositol in healthy subjects is 40:1 of "myo"- and -"chiro"-inositol respectively. The **use** of the 40:1 ratio shows the same efficacy of "myo"-inositol alone but in a shorter time. In addition, the physiological ratio does not impair oocyte quality. The use of inositols in PCOS is gaining m...
939. ...chiro"-inositol respectively. The use of the 40:1 ratio shows the same efficacy of "myo"-inositol alone but in a shorter time. In addition, the physiological ratio does not impair oocyte quality. The **use** of inositols in PCOS is gaining more importance, and an efficacy higher than 70% with a strong safety profile is reported. On the other hand, about 30% of patients could show as inositol-resistant. N...
940. ...ugs. This system usually provides a local effect on certain positions of the body. In ancient times, people used herbs to put on wounds for relieving the inflammatory effect or as pain relievers. The **use** of topical drug delivery system is much broader now, from smoking cessation to beauty purposes. Nowadays, there are numerous dosage forms that can be used topically, including cream, ointment, lotion...
941. ...a medication in the correct base, before applying to the skin. A pharmacist should not substitute an ointment for a cream, or vice versa, as the potency of the medication can change. Some physicians **use** a thick ointment to replace the waterproof barrier of the inflamed skin in the treatment of eczema, and a cream might not accomplish the same clinical intention. There are many general classes, with...
942. ...a more convenient and cleaner topical option. Foam can be typically seen with topical steroids marketed for the scalp. Gels are thicker than liquids. Gels are often a semisolid emulsion and sometimes **use** alcohol as a solvent for the active ingredient; some gels liquefy at body temperature. Gel tends to be cellulose cut with alcohol or acetone. Gels tend to be self-drying, tend to have greatly variabl...
943. ...er used in nasal surgery). A shake lotion is a mixture that separates into two or three parts over time. Frequently, an oil mixed with a water-based solution needs to be shaken into suspension before **use** and includes the instructions: "Shake well before use". Medication may be placed in a solid form. Examples are deodorant, antiperspirants, astringents, and hemostatic agents. Some solids melt when th...
944. ...that separates into two or three parts over time. Frequently, an oil mixed with a water-based solution needs to be shaken into suspension before use and includes the instructions: "Shake well before **use**". Medication may be placed in a solid form. Examples are deodorant, antiperspirants, astringents, and hemostatic agents. Some solids melt when they reach body temperature (e.g. rectal suppositories)....
945. ...tage of alcohol. It would normally be used as a drug vehicle if drying of the area is desired. Topical solutions can be marketed as drops, rinses, or sprays, are generally of low viscosity, and often **use** alcohol or water in the base. These are usually a powder dissolved in alcohol, water, and sometimes oil; although a solution that uses alcohol as a base ingredient, as in topical steroids, can cause...
946. ...lp people quit smoking, although they have not been proven to be more effective than smoking cessation medicine. There is concern with the possibility that non-smokers and children may start nicotine **use** with e-cigarettes at a rate higher than anticipated than if they were never created. Following the possibility of nicotine addiction from e-cigarette use, there is concern children may start smoking...
947. ...t non-smokers and children may start nicotine use with e-cigarettes at a rate higher than anticipated than if they were never created. Following the possibility of nicotine addiction from e-cigarette **use**, there is concern children may start smoking cigarettes. Youth who use e-cigarettes are more likely to go on to smoke cigarettes. Their part in tobacco harm reduction is unclear, while another review...
948. ...a rate higher than anticipated than if they were never created. Following the possibility of nicotine addiction from e-cigarette use, there is concern children may start smoking cigarettes. Youth who **use** e-cigarettes are more likely to go on to smoke cigarettes. Their part in tobacco harm reduction is unclear, while another review found they appear to have the potential to lower tobacco-related death...
949. ...but e-cigarettes are generally seen as safer than combusted tobacco products. It is estimated their safety risk to users is similar to that of smokeless tobacco. The long-term effects of e-cigarette **use** are unknown. The risk from serious adverse events was reported in 2016 to be low. Less serious adverse effects include abdominal pain, headache, blurry vision, throat and mouth irritation, vomiting,...
950. ...d mouth irritation, vomiting, nausea, and coughing. Nicotine itself is associated with some health harms. In 2019 and 2020, an outbreak of severe lung illness throughout the US has been linked to the **use** of contaminated black market THC vape cartridges. Vaporizers can be used to inhale other recreational drugs as well. A wide variety can be consumed this way, either dissolved in e-liquid or vaporized...
951. ...d black market THC vape cartridges. Vaporizers can be used to inhale other recreational drugs as well. A wide variety can be consumed this way, either dissolved in e-liquid or vaporized directly. The **use** of e-cigarettes to inhale the psychedelic drug DMT has been reported. Studies have shown that vaporizing cannabis exposes the user to lower levels of harmful substances than smoking cannabis. These f...
952. ...an aqueous solution of dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). The wells could also contain cells or enzymes of some type. (The other wells may be empty or contain pure solvent or untreated samples, intended for **use** as experimental controls.) A screening facility typically holds a library of "stock plates", whose contents are carefully catalogued, and each of which may have been created by the lab or obtained fr...
953. ...re method, and quantile-based method have been proposed and adopted for hit selection. In a screen with replicates, we can directly estimate variability for each compound; as a consequence, we should **use** SSMD or t-statistic that does not rely on the strong assumption that the z-score and z*-score rely on. One issue with the use of t-statistic and associated p-values is that they are affected by both...
954. ...ectly estimate variability for each compound; as a consequence, we should use SSMD or t-statistic that does not rely on the strong assumption that the z-score and z*-score rely on. One issue with the **use** of t-statistic and associated p-values is that they are affected by both sample size and effect size. They come from testing for no mean difference, and thus are not designed to measure the size of c...
955. ...SMD directly assesses the size of effects. SSMD has also been shown to be better than other commonly used effect sizes. The population value of SSMD is comparable across experiments and, thus, we can **use** the same cutoff for the population value of SSMD to measure the size of compound effects Unique distributions of compounds across one or many plates can be employed either to increase the number of a...
956. ...could not be obtained using conventional milling equipment. Whereby traditional HTS drug discovery uses purified proteins or intact cells, recent development of the technology is associated with the **use** of intact living organisms, like the nematode "Caenorhabditis elegans" and zebrafish ("Danio rerio"). In 2016-2018 plate manufacturers began producing specialized chemistry to allow for mass producti...
957. ...otics and high-speed computer technology. It still takes a highly specialized and expensive screening lab to run an HTS operation, so in many cases a small- to moderate-size research institution will **use** the services of an existing HTS facility rather than set up one for itself. There is a trend in academia for universities to be their own drug discovery enterprise. These facilities, which normally a...
958. ...wide screen enables researchers to perform target identification and validation for given disease or the mode of action determination on a small molecule. The most accurate results can be obtained by **use** of "arrayed" functional genomics libraries, i.e. each library contains a single construct such as a single siRNA or cDNA. Functional genomics is typically paired with high content screening using e.g...
959. ...i-PI grant initiatives. In the United States, the National Institutes of Health or NIH has created a nationwide consortium of small-molecule screening centers to produce innovative chemical tools for **use** in biological research. The Molecular Libraries Probe Production Centers Network, or MLPCN, performs HTS on assays provided by the research community, against a large library of small molecules maint...
960. ...to "how the drug works in a real-world situation", and is "often lower than efficacy because of interactions with other medications or health conditions of the patient, sufficient dose or duration of **use** not prescribed by the physician or followed by the patient, or use for an off-label condition that had not been tested." In agriculture and forestry, efficacy is used to describe whether a pesticide...
961. ...wer than efficacy because of interactions with other medications or health conditions of the patient, sufficient dose or duration of use not prescribed by the physician or followed by the patient, or **use** for an off-label condition that had not been tested." In agriculture and forestry, efficacy is used to describe whether a pesticide is effective in controlling a pest or disease. In Protestant Theolo...
962. ...and pharmacy involved with designing and developing pharmaceutical drugs. Medicinal chemistry involves the identification, synthesis and development of new chemical entities suitable for therapeutic **use**. It also includes the study of existing drugs, their biological properties, and their quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSAR). Medicinal chemistry is a highly interdisciplinary science c...
963. ...apeutic agents. Practically speaking, it involves chemical aspects of identification, and then systematic, thorough synthetic alteration of new chemical entities to make them suitable for therapeutic **use**. It includes synthetic and computational aspects of the study of existing drugs and agents in development in relation to their bioactivities (biological activities and properties), i.e., understandin...
964. ...and pharmaceutical business practices, systematically oversee altering identified chemical agents such that after pharmaceutical formulation, they are safe and efficacious, and therefore suitable for **use** in treatment of disease. Discovery is the identification of novel active chemical compounds, often called "hits", which are typically found by assay of compounds for a desired biological activity. In...
965. ...l chemistry work are principally industrial scientists (but see following), working as part of an interdisciplinary team that uses their chemistry abilities, especially, their synthetic abilities, to **use** chemical principles to design effective therapeutic agents. The length of training is intense, with practitioners often required to attain a 4-year bachelor's degree followed by a 4–6 year Ph.D. in o...
966. ...actices. Marketing to health-care providers takes three main forms: activity by pharmaceutical sales representatives, provision of drug samples, and sponsoring continuing medical education (CME). The **use** of gifts, including pens and coffee mugs embossed with pharmaceutical product names, has been prohibited by PHRMA ethics guidelines since 2008. Of the 237,000 medical sites representing 680,000 physi...
967. ...ion is collected by commercial vendors. The physicians are then "deciled" into ten groups based on their writing patterns. Higher deciles are more aggressively targeted. Some pharmaceutical companies **use** additional information such as: Physicians are perhaps the most important component in sales. They write the prescriptions that determine which drugs will be used by people. Influencing the physician...
968. ...e pharmaceutical representative is armed with key data at his fingertips and tools to maximize the time spent with physicians. Pharmaceutical and medical device companies have also paid physicians to **use** their drugs, which could affect how often a drug is prescribed. For example, one study that looked at physician payments and pimavanserin found that "extensive physician payments have been associated...
969. ...ocacy and key marketing feedback.  Some pharmaceutical companies identify key opinion leaders through direct inquiry of physicians (primary research). Recently, pharmaceutical companies have begun to **use** social network analysis to uncover thought leaders; because it does not introduce respondent bias, which is commonly found in primary research; it can identify and map out the entire scientific commu...
970. ...stort the market and leading to higher overall healthcare costs since they encourage the overuse of more expensive drugs over generic alternatives. Consumers often realize too late that the continued **use** of these drugs without coupons necessitates either switching to a cheaper generic or facing steep out-of-pocket expenses. Pharmaceutical company spending on marketing exceeds that spent on research....
971. ...ing and Communications issued a warning letter concerning two unbranded consumer targeted Web sites sponsored by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation as the websites promoted a drug for an unapproved **use**, the websites failed to disclose the risks associated with the use of the drug and made unsubstantiated dosing claims. Lifestyle drug Lifestyle drug is an imprecise term commonly applied to medicatio...
972. ...nded consumer targeted Web sites sponsored by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation as the websites promoted a drug for an unapproved use, the websites failed to disclose the risks associated with the **use** of the drug and made unsubstantiated dosing claims. Lifestyle drug Lifestyle drug is an imprecise term commonly applied to medications which treat non–life-threatening and non-painful conditions such...
973. ...s. Proponents, however, point out that improving the patient's subjective quality of life has always been a primary concern of medicine, and argue that these drugs are doing just that. It finds broad **use** in both media and scholarly journals. There is direct impact of lifestyle drugs on society, particularly in the developing world. Implications associated with labeling of indications and products sal...
974. ...in the developing world. Implications associated with labeling of indications and products sales of these lifestyle drugs may be varied. Drugs can, over time, switch from 'lifestyle' to 'mainstream' **use**. Though no precise widely accepted definition or criteria are associated with the term, there is much debate within the fields of pharmacology and bioethics around the propriety of developing such dr...
975. ...eating these drugs when far more dangerous diseases like cancer and AIDS remain uncured. It is sometimes claimed that lifestyle drugs amount to little more than medically sanctioned recreational drug **use**. Lip balm Lip balm or lip salve is a wax-like substance applied to the lips to moisturize and relieve chapped or dry lips, angular cheilitis, stomatitis, or cold sores. Lip balm often contains beeswa...
976. ...n inadequate capability of holding moisture as well as an imperfect lip barrier function. The Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology performed a study in order to determine whether consistent **use** of lip balm would enhance the overall quality of the lips. The study used 32 female participants within the ages of 20 to 40 years and the participants had mild to moderate dried lips without any his...
977. ...aining the most MOAH of all tested cosmetics (up to 9%). The European Food Safety Authority sees MOAH and polyaromatics as possibly carcinogenic. Based on the results, Stiftung Warentest warns not to **use** Vaseline or any product that is based on mineral oils for lip care. In 2019, a research report conducted by the Statista Research Department concluded that ChapStick was the leading lip balm brand in...
978. ...f DNA (oligomers, or more particularly, oligonucleotides) to target specific genetic code sequences – that is, antisense therapy, a form of gene therapy. According to Riordan, he had always wanted to **use** the name Gilead Sciences all along. Still, he used Oligogen as a temporary name because he needed to deal with a trademark clearance issue with a California nonprofit organization that was already us...
979. ...w tree species from that part of that world, and was therefore inspired to name his company Gilead. After founding Oligogen, he contacted the nonprofit about the naming issue and secured the right to **use** the Gilead Sciences name in exchange for a $1,000 donation. By 1988, the company had moved its headquarters to Foster City's Vintage Park neighborhood, where it has been based ever since. The company...
980. ...g tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF). Plaintiffs allege that Gilead suspended TAF in 2004 despite clear evidence indicating that TAF-based medications were safer than TDF, a compound whose long-term **use** was associated with adverse side effects such as nephrotoxicity and bone density loss. Gilead's first TAF medication, marketed under the trade name Genvoya, came out in 2015. Lawsuits allege that in...
981. ...ons. In the following years, the United States government conducted research demonstrating that Truvada was able to prevent HIV infection. The US Centers for Disease Control holds the patent for this **use** of Truvada as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PreP). Gilead introduced Truvada for PreP in 2012, at which point a prescription cost approximately $1,200 per month in the United States. By 2018, this price...
982. ...rom accessing the medicines. In response to the criticism, Gilead eventually relaxed these requirements. Gilead has been criticized for tax avoidance. Tax avoidance, as opposed to tax evasion, is the **use** of legal means to shift tax burdens from the one jurisdiction to overseas affiliates that pay a lower tax rate, even if revenue is primarily generated outside the overseas jurisdiction. A 2016 report...
983. ...0-year remdesivir patents in more than 70 countries. In 2021, remdesivir (tradename "Veklury") generated more than $4.5 billion in annual revenues, and was Gilead's highest selling product. Emergency **use** authorization for remdesivir was granted in the U.S. on May 1, 2020, for people hospitalized with severe COVID-19. In September 2020 following a review of the evidence, the WHO issued guidance not to...
984. ...authorization for remdesivir was granted in the U.S. on May 1, 2020, for people hospitalized with severe COVID-19. In September 2020 following a review of the evidence, the WHO issued guidance not to **use** remdesivir for people with COVID-19, as there was no good evidence of benefit. However, over 2020–22 with further clinical research, remdesivir had been approved for treatment of hospitalized people...
985. ...reduced need for oxygen and mechanical ventilation compared to people receiving standard-of-care treatments. "Veklury" received approval from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in October 2020 **use** in hospitalized adults and children 12 years and older for treatment of severe COVID-19 infections. In January 2022, the FDA gave regulatory approval to "Veklury" for use in adults and children (12 y...
986. ...ration (FDA) in October 2020 use in hospitalized adults and children 12 years and older for treatment of severe COVID-19 infections. In January 2022, the FDA gave regulatory approval to "Veklury" for **use** in adults and children (12 years of age and older who weigh at least and are positive for COVID-19, not hospitalized, and are ill having high risk for developing severe COVID-19, including hospitaliz...
987. ...er who weigh at least and are positive for COVID-19, not hospitalized, and are ill having high risk for developing severe COVID-19, including hospitalization or death. The FDA also provided Emergency **Use** Authorization for "Veklury" treatment of children under age 12 who are COVID-positive and not hospitalized, but have mild-to-moderate COVID-19 with high risk of developing severe COVID-19, including...
988. ...to denote the counterpart of "placebo" (Latin , "I shall please", from , "I please"), a substance that may produce a beneficial, healthful, pleasant, or desirable effect. Kennedy emphasized that his **use** of the term "nocebo" refers strictly to a subject-centered response, a quality "inherent in the patient rather than in the remedy". That is, he rejected the use of the term for pharmacologically indu...
989. ...le effect. Kennedy emphasized that his use of the term "nocebo" refers strictly to a subject-centered response, a quality "inherent in the patient rather than in the remedy". That is, he rejected the **use** of the term for pharmacologically induced negative side effects such as the ringing in the ears caused by quinine. That is not to say that the patient's psychologically induced response may not inclu...
990. ...harm, which may violate the ethical principle of non-maleficence. It is possible that nocebo effects can be reduced while respecting autonomy using different models of informed consent, including the **use** of a framing effect and the authorized concealment. Epidural administration Epidural administration (from Ancient Greek ἐπί, "upon" + "dura mater") is a method of medication administration in which a...
991. ...more single doses, or may be continually infused over a period of time. When placed properly, an epidural catheter may remain inserted for several days, but is usually removed when it is possible to **use** less invasive administration methods (such as oral medication). Epidural injections are commonly used to provide pain relief (analgesia) during childbirth. This usually involves epidural injection of...
992. ...or oral analgesia. In a 2018 Cochrane review of studies which compared epidural analgesia with oral opioids, some advantages of epidural analgesia versus opioids included fewer instances of naloxone **use** in newborns, and decreased risk of maternal hyperventilation. Some disadvantages of epidural analgesia versus opioids included longer labor durations, an increased need for oxytocin to stimulate uter...
993. ...re was no difference found on the immediate neonatal health of the child between epidural analgesia versus no analgesia. Furthermore, the occurrence of long-term backache was unchanged after epidural **use**. Complications of epidural analgesia are rare, but may include headaches, dizziness, difficulty breathing and seizures for the mother. The child may experience a slow heartbeat, decreased ability to...
994. ...s may help improve labor comfort and decrease the risk of complications. Epidural analgesia has been demonstrated to have several benefits after other surgeries, including decreasing the need for the **use** of oral or systemic opioids, and reducing the risk of postoperative respiratory problems, chest infections, blood transfusion requirements, and myocardial infarctions. Use of epidural analgesia after...
995. ...decreasing the need for the use of oral or systemic opioids, and reducing the risk of postoperative respiratory problems, chest infections, blood transfusion requirements, and myocardial infarctions. **Use** of epidural analgesia after surgery in place of systemic analgesia is less likely to decrease intestinal motility which would occur with systemic opioid therapy through blockade of the sympathetic ne...
996. ...CSF pressure. This may be used to treat post-dural-puncture headache and leakage of cerebrospinal fluid due to dural puncture, which occurs in approximately 1.5% of epidural analgesia procedures. The **use** of epidural analgesia and anesthetic is considered safe and effective in most situations. Epidural analgesia is contraindicated in people who have complications such as cellulitis near the injection...
997. ...is also potentially contraindicated in people with preexisting progressive neurologic disease. Some heart conditions such as stenosis of the aortic or mitral valves are also a contraindication to the **use** of epidural administration, as is low blood pressure or hypovolemia. An epidural is generally not used in people who are being administered anticoagulation therapy as it increases the risk of complic...
998. ...n loss of sympathetic nerve input to the heart, which may cause a significant decrease in heart rate and blood pressure. Obese people, those who have given birth prior, those with a history of opiate **use**, or those with cervical dilation of more than 7 cm are at a higher risk of inadequate pain control. If the dura is accidentally punctured during administration, it may cause cerebrospinal fluid to le...
999. ...ipants that have thrombocytopenia. It is unclear whether major surgery-related bleeding within 24 hours and the surgery-related complications up to 7 days after the procedure are affected by epidural **use**. Rare complications of epidural administration include formation of an epidural abscess (1 in 145,000) or epidural hematoma (1 in 168,000), neurological injury lasting longer than 1 year (1 in 240,00...
1000. ...vum and enters the epidural space. Saline or air may be used to identify placement in the epidural space. A systematic review from 2014 showed no difference in terms of safety or efficacy between the **use** of saline and air for this purpose. In addition to the loss of resistance technique, direct imaging of the placement may be used. This may be conducted with a portable ultrasound scanner or fluorosco...
1001. ...h a chlorhexidine solution. Subcutaneously tunneled epidural catheters may be safely left in place for longer periods, with a low risk of infection or other complications. Regardless of the length of **use**, the effects of a medicine administered epidurally, including numbness if used for analgesia, usually wear off within a few hours of the epidural being stopped, with full recovery of normal function...
1002. ...dicine administered epidurally, including numbness if used for analgesia, usually wear off within a few hours of the epidural being stopped, with full recovery of normal function within 24 hours. The **use** of epidural analgesia during a birth does not have any effect on whether a caesarean section must be performed during future births. Epidural analgesia during childbirth also generally has no negativ...
1003. ...fect on whether a caesarean section must be performed during future births. Epidural analgesia during childbirth also generally has no negative effects on the long-term health of the mother or child. **Use** of epidural analgesia versus oral analgesia or no analgesia has no effect on the normal length of hospital stay after childbirth, the only difference being that care must be performed around the epid...
1004. ...owing epidural analgesia used for gastrointestinal surgery, the time to recovery of normal gastrointestinal function is not significantly different from recovery time after intravenous analgesia. The **use** of epidural analgesia during cardiac surgeries may shorten the amount of time a person requires ventilator support following surgery, but it is unknown whether it shortens the overall post-surgery ho...
1005. ...n surgeon Achille Mario Dogliotti. Later, in 1931 Eugen Aburel described using a continuous epidural catheter for pain relief during childbirth. In 1941, Robert Hingson and Waldo Edwards recorded the **use** of continuous caudal anesthesia using an indwelling needle, following which they described the use of a flexible catheter for continuous caudal anesthesia in a woman in labor in 1942. In 1947, Manuel...
1006. ...l catheter for pain relief during childbirth. In 1941, Robert Hingson and Waldo Edwards recorded the use of continuous caudal anesthesia using an indwelling needle, following which they described the **use** of a flexible catheter for continuous caudal anesthesia in a woman in labor in 1942. In 1947, Manuel Curbelo described placement of a lumbar epidural catheter, and in 1979, Behar reported the first u...
1007. ...e of a flexible catheter for continuous caudal anesthesia in a woman in labor in 1942. In 1947, Manuel Curbelo described placement of a lumbar epidural catheter, and in 1979, Behar reported the first **use** of an epidural to administer narcotics. Some people continue to be concerned that women who are administered epidural analgesia during labor are more likely to require a cesarean delivery, based on o...
1008. ...be concerned that women who are administered epidural analgesia during labor are more likely to require a cesarean delivery, based on older observational studies. However, evidence has shown that the **use** of epidural analgesia during labor does not have any statistically significant effect on the necessity to perform a cesarean delivery. A 2018 Cochrane review found no increase in the rate of Caesarea...
1009. ...nd stage of labor by 15 to 30 minutes, which may increase the risk a delivery must be assisted by instruments. In the United States in 1998, it was reported that over half of childbirths involved the **use** of epidural analgesia, and by 2008 this had increased to 61% of births. In the United Kingdom, epidurals have been offered through the National Health Service for all women during childbirth since 19...
1010. ...as ball milling and Bredig's arc method. In the condensation method, small particles are formed from larger molecules through a chemical reaction. The stability of sols can be maintained through the **use** of dispersing agents, which prevent the particles from clumping together or settling out of the suspension. Sols are often used in the sol-gel process, in which a sol is converted into a gel through...
1011. ...gnized generic approved by a developed country, then (if still not available) an internationally-recognized generic approved domestically – this is to avoid deviation from the original drug by serial **use** of generics as reference. If pharmacokinetic values such as C do not apply to the type of drug (e.g. if the drug is not absorbed orally), comparisons can be made using other means such as dose-respon...
1012. ...ain medications. The Clinical Pharmacogenetics Implementation Consortium (CPIC) is "an international consortium of individual volunteers and a small dedicated staff who are interested in facilitating **use** of pharmacogenetic tests for patient care. CPIC’s goal is to address barriers to clinical implementation of pharmacogenetic tests by creating, curating, and posting freely available, peer-reviewed, e...
1013. ...ewed, evidence-based, updatable, and detailed gene/drug clinical practice guidelines. CPIC guidelines follow standardized formats, include systematic grading of evidence and clinical recommendations, **use** standardized terminology, are peer-reviewed, and are published in a journal (in partnership with Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics) with simultaneous posting to cpicpgx.org, where they are regul...
1014. ...taking codeine. She also noticed that her breastfed infant was lethargic and feeding poorly. When the patient mentioned these symptoms to her physician, they recommended that she discontinue codeine **use**. Within a few days, both the patient's and her infant's symptoms were no longer present. It is assumed that if the patient had undergone a pharmacogenomic test, it would have revealed she may have ha...
1015. ...dergone a pharmacogenomic test, it would have revealed she may have had a duplication of the gene CYP2D6, placing her in the Ultra-rapid metabolizer (UM) category, explaining her reactions to codeine **use**. "Case C – FDA Warning on Codeine Overdose for Infants" On February 20, 2013, the FDA released a statement addressing a serious concern regarding the connection between children who are known as CYP2...
1016. ...physicians include: Issues surrounding the availability of the test include: Although other factors contribute to the slow progression of pharmacogenomics (such as developing guidelines for clinical **use**), the above factors appear to be the most prevalent. Increasingly substantial evidence and industry body guidelines for clinical use of pharmacogenetics have made it a population wide approach to pre...
1017. ...on of pharmacogenomics (such as developing guidelines for clinical use), the above factors appear to be the most prevalent. Increasingly substantial evidence and industry body guidelines for clinical **use** of pharmacogenetics have made it a population wide approach to precision medicine. Cost, reimbursement, education, and easy use at the point of care remain significant barriers to widescale adoption....
1018. ...easingly substantial evidence and industry body guidelines for clinical use of pharmacogenetics have made it a population wide approach to precision medicine. Cost, reimbursement, education, and easy **use** at the point of care remain significant barriers to widescale adoption. There has been call to move away from race and ethnicity in medicine and instead use genetic ancestry as a way to categorize pa...
1019. .... Cost, reimbursement, education, and easy use at the point of care remain significant barriers to widescale adoption. There has been call to move away from race and ethnicity in medicine and instead **use** genetic ancestry as a way to categorize patients. Some alleles that vary in frequency between specific populations have been shown to be associated with differential responses to specific drugs. As a...
1020. ...ging that genomic information is similar and yet distinct from other health-related information. Genomic contextualism would allow for a case-by-case analysis of the technology and the context of its **use** (e.g., clinical practice, research, secondary findings). Others argue that genetic information is indeed distinct from other health-related information but not to the extent of requiring legal/regula...
1021. ...wards bringing pharmacogenetic technology into everyday medical decisions. Likewise, companies like deCODE genetics, MD Labs Pharmacogenetics, Navigenics and 23andMe offer genome scans. The companies **use** the same genotyping chips that are used in GWAS studies and provide customers with a write-up of individual risk for various traits and diseases and testing for 500,000 known SNPs. Costs range from $...
1022. ...eam is usually generated by the pressure of a piston in an enclosed liquid-filled chamber. The piston is usually pushed by the release of a compressed metal spring, although devices being studied may **use** piezoelectric effects and other novel technologies to pressurize the liquid in the chamber. The springs of currently marketed and historical devices may be compressed by operator muscle power, hydrau...
1023. ...dose or multi-dose. Throughout the years jet injectors have been redesigned to overcome the risk of carrying contamination to successive subjects. To try to stop the risk, researchers placed a single-**use** protective cap over the reusable nozzle. The protective cap was intended to act as a shield between the reusable nozzle and the patient's skin. After each injection the cap would be discarded and rep...
1024. ...hat the internal fluid pathway and patient-contacting parts cannot safely be reused. Researchers developed a new jet injection design by combining the drug reservoir, plunger and nozzle into a single-**use** disposable cartridge. The cartridge is placed onto the tip of the jet injector and, when activated, a rod pushes the plunger forward. This device is known as a disposable-cartridge jet injector (DCJI...
1025. ...injector and, when activated, a rod pushes the plunger forward. This device is known as a disposable-cartridge jet injector (DCJI). The International Standards Organization recommended abandoning the **use** of the name "jet injector", which is associated with a risk of cross-contamination and rather refer to newer devices as "needle-free injectors". Since the late 1970s, jet injectors have been increasi...
1026. ...stream to ricochet backward and contaminate the nozzle. Instances of splash-back have been published by several researchers. Samir Mitragrotri visually captured splash-back after discharging a multi-**use** nozzle jet injector using high-speed microcinematography. Hoffman and colleagues (2001) also observed the nozzle and internal fluid pathway of the jet injector becoming contaminated. Fluid suck-back...
1027. ...eliver local anaesthetic into patients' toes. Eight of these patients developed infections caused by "Mycobacterium chelonae". The injector was stored in a container of water and disinfectant between **use**, but the organism grew in the container. This species of bacteria is sometimes found in tap water, and had been previously associated with infections from jet injectors. Liniment Liniment (from , mea...
1028. ...acting as rubefacients via a counterirritant effect. Methyl salicylate, which is the analgesic ingredient in some heat rubs, can be toxic if used in excess. Heating pads are also not recommended for **use** with heat rubs, because the added warmth may cause overabsorption of the active ingredients. Liniments are commonly used on horses following exercise, applied either by rubbing on full-strength, espe...
1029. ...asing the amount of blood releasing heat from the body. Many horse liniment formulas in diluted form have been used on humans, though products for horses which contain DMSO are not suitable for human **use**, as DMSO carries the topical product into the bloodstream. Horse liniment ingredients such as menthol, chloroxylenol, or iodine are also used in different formulas in products used by humans. Absorbi...
1030. ...ho made his initial fortune selling his father's horse liniment formula beginning in the period following the Civil War. Sloan's liniment with capsicum as a key ingredient was also marketed for human **use**. He later sold his company to the predecessor of Warner–Lambert, which was purchased in 2000 by Pfizer. CYP2D6 Cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) is an enzyme that in humans is encoded by the "CYP2D6" gene...
1031. ...normal, reduced, and non-existent CYP2D6 function in subjects. Pharmacogenomic tests are now available to identify patients with variations in the CYP2D6 allele and have been shown to have widespread **use** in clinical practice. The CYP2D6 function in any particular subject may be described as one of the following: A patient's CYP2D6 phenotype is often clinically determined via the administration of deb...
1032. ...al, decreased, or no CYP2D6 function, depending on the allele. Pharmacogenomic tests are now available to identify patients with variations in the CYP2D6 allele and have been shown to have widespread **use** in clinical practice. The current known alleles of CYP2D6 and their clinical function can be found in databases such as PharmVar. Ethnicity is a factor in the occurrence of CYP2D6 variability. The re...
1033. ...biology (especially systems biology). The latter phrases refer, respectively, to experiments done in living organisms, outside living organisms, and where they are found in nature. The earliest known **use** of the phrase was by Christopher Langton to describe artificial life, in the announcement of a workshop on that subject at the Center for Nonlinear Studies at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in 19...
1034. ...ers found potential inhibitors to an enzyme associated with cancer activity "in silico". Fifty percent of the molecules were later shown to be active inhibitors "in vitro". This approach differs from **use** of expensive high-throughput screening (HTS) robotic labs to physically test thousands of diverse compounds a day, often with an expected hit rate on the order of 1% or less, with still fewer expecte...
1035. ...ive). Radiopharmaceuticals are used in the field of nuclear medicine as radioactive tracers in medical imaging and in therapy for many diseases (for example, brachytherapy). Many radiopharmaceuticals **use** technetium-99m (Tc-99m) which has many useful properties as a gamma-emitting tracer nuclide. In the book "Technetium" a total of 31 different radiopharmaceuticals based on Tc-99m are listed for imagi...
1036. ...ch fluorine-18 is incorporated into deoxyglucose. Some radioisotopes (for example gallium-67, gallium-68, and radioiodine) are used directly as soluble ionic salts, without further modification. This **use** relies on the chemical and biological properties of the radioisotope itself, to localize it within the body. See nuclear medicine. Production of a radiopharmaceutical involves two processes: Radionuc...
1037. ...modern concept.  The development of the concept is often erroneously accredited to Paul Ehrlich. However neither the alleged source nor any of his other works mention the term "pharmacophore" or make **use** of the concept. The following computer software packages enable the user to model the pharmacophore using a variety of computational chemistry methods: Oil of guaiac Oil of guaiac is a fragrance ingr...
1038. ...o solid-liquid transition, better-packed polar heads within surfactant crystals increase Krafft temperature. Polypharmacy Polypharmacy (polypragmasia) is an umbrella term to describe the simultaneous **use** of multiple medicines by a patient for their conditions. The term polypharmacy is often defined as regularly taking five or more medicines but there is no standard definition and the term has also be...
1039. ...he advantages of polypharmacy (over taking single medications or monotherapy) outweigh the disadvantages or risks depends upon the particular combination and diagnosis involved in any given case. The **use** of multiple drugs, even in fairly straightforward illnesses, is not an indicator of poor treatment and is not necessarily overmedication. Moreover, it is well accepted in pharmacology that it is impo...
1040. ...in in a state of polypharmacy misuse. About 84% of prescription drug misusers reported using multiple drugs. Note, however, that the term "polypharmacy" and its variants generally refer to legal drug **use** as-prescribed, even when used in a negative or critical context. Measures can be taken to limit polypharmacy to its truly legitimate and appropriate needs. This is an emerging area of research, frequ...
1041. ...with prescription-only medication. Staff at residential aged care facilities have a range of views and attitudes towards polypharmacy that, in some cases, may contribute to an increase in medication **use**. The risk of polypharmacy increases with age, although there is some evidence that it may decrease slightly after age 90 years. Poorer health is a strong predictor of polypharmacy at any age, althoug...
1042. ...h or if polypharmacy is used because of the poorer health. It appears possible that the risk factors for polypharmacy may be different for younger and middle-aged people compared to older people. The **use** of polypharmacy is correlated to the use of potentially inappropriate medications. Potentially inappropriate medications are generally taken to mean those that have been agreed upon by expert consens...
1043. ...he poorer health. It appears possible that the risk factors for polypharmacy may be different for younger and middle-aged people compared to older people. The use of polypharmacy is correlated to the **use** of potentially inappropriate medications. Potentially inappropriate medications are generally taken to mean those that have been agreed upon by expert consensus, such as by the Beers Criteria. These...
1044. ..., blurred vision, dry mouth, impaired cognition, and falls. Many older people living in long term care facilities experience polypharmacy, and under-prescribing of potentially indicated medicines and **use** of high risk medicines can also occur. Medicine use rises from 6.0 ± 3.8 regular medicines on average when people enter long term care to 8.9 ± 4.1 regular medicines after two years. Polypharmacy is...
1045. ...falls. Many older people living in long term care facilities experience polypharmacy, and under-prescribing of potentially indicated medicines and use of high risk medicines can also occur. Medicine **use** rises from 6.0 ± 3.8 regular medicines on average when people enter long term care to 8.9 ± 4.1 regular medicines after two years. Polypharmacy is associated with an increased risk of falls in elderl...
1046. ...erson takes on a regular basis, along with all associated efforts that increase with that number - like storing, organizing, consuming, and understanding the various medications in one's regimen. The **use** of individual medications is growing faster than pill burden. A recent study found that older adults in long term care are taking an average of 14 to 15 tablets every day. Poor medical adherence is a...
1047. ...ts are weighed when considering whether to continue a medication. This includes drugs such as bisphosphonates (for osteoporosis), which are often taken indefinitely although there is only evidence to **use** it for five to ten years. Patient educational programs, reminder messages, medication packaging, and the use of memory tricks has also been seen to improve adherence and reduce pill burden in several...
1048. ...(for osteoporosis), which are often taken indefinitely although there is only evidence to use it for five to ten years. Patient educational programs, reminder messages, medication packaging, and the **use** of memory tricks has also been seen to improve adherence and reduce pill burden in several countries. These include associating medications with mealtimes, recording the dosage on the box, storing th...
1049. ...n a special place, leaving it in plain sight in the living room, or putting the prescription sheet on the refrigerator. The development of applications has also shown some benefit in this regard. The **use** of a polypill regimen, such as combination pill for HIV treatment, as opposed to a multi-pill regimen, also alleviates pill burden and increases adherence.  The selection of long-acting active ingred...
1050. ...cribing would allow time explain the process of deprescribing, explore related concerns, and support making the right decisions. The effectiveness of specific interventions to improve the appropriate **use** of polypharmacy such as pharmaceutical care and computerised decision support is unclear. This is due to low quality of current evidence surrounding these interventions. High quality evidence is need...
1051. ...to loss of consciousness. When two drugs affect each other, it is a drug–drug interaction (DDI). The risk of a DDI increases with the number of drugs used.  A large share of elderly people regularly **use** five or more medications or supplements, with a significant risk of side-effects from drug–drug interactions. Drug interactions can be of three kinds: It may be difficult to distinguish between syner...
1052. ...r Stoll, founder and director of the pharmaceutical department. He began studying the medicinal plant squill and the fungus ergot as part of a program to purify and synthesize active constituents for **use** as pharmaceuticals. His main contribution was to elucidate the chemical structure of the common nucleus of "Scilla" glycosides (an active principle of Mediterranean squill). While researching lysergi...
1053. ...dental exposure on April 16, but that date fell midweek and was not a good time for the party, so he chose the 19th to honor Hofmann's first intentional exposure. Sandoz manufactured LSD for research **use**, and provided ampules to qualified researchers under the trade-name Delysid in 1947. LSD was brought to the attention of the United States in 1949 by Sandoz Laboratories because they believed LSD mig...
1054. ...on of the United States in 1949 by Sandoz Laboratories because they believed LSD might have clinical applications. Throughout the 1950s, mainstream media reported on research into LSD and its growing **use** in psychiatry, and undergraduate psychology students taking LSD as part of their education described the effects of the drug. "Time" magazine published six positive reports on LSD between 1954 and 19...
1055. ...the founder of Alcoholics Anonymous, participated in medically supervised experiments on the effects of LSD on alcoholism and believed LSD could be used to cure alcoholics. In the United Kingdom the **use** of LSD was pioneered by Ronald A. Sandison in 1952, at Powick Hospital, Worcestershire. A special LSD unit was set up in 1958. After Sandison left the hospital in 1964, medical superintendent Arthur...
1056. ...n 1952, at Powick Hospital, Worcestershire. A special LSD unit was set up in 1958. After Sandison left the hospital in 1964, medical superintendent Arthur Spencer took over and continued the clinical **use** of the drug until it was withdrawn in 1965. In all, 683 patients were treated with LSD in 13,785 separate sessions at Powick, but Spencer was the last member of the medical staff to use it. From the...
1057. ...the clinical use of the drug until it was withdrawn in 1965. In all, 683 patients were treated with LSD in 13,785 separate sessions at Powick, but Spencer was the last member of the medical staff to **use** it. From the late 1940s through the mid-1970s, extensive research and testing was conducted on LSD. During a 15-year period beginning in 1950, research on LSD and other hallucinogens generated over 1...
1058. ...c study of LSD largely ceased by about 1980 as research funding declined, and governments became wary of permitting such research, fearing that the results of the research might encourage illicit LSD **use**. By the end of the 20th century, there were few authorized researchers left, and their efforts were mostly directed towards establishing approved protocols for further work with LSD in easing the suf...
1059. ...cept" that he hoped would "break these substances out of the mold of the counterculture and bring them back to the lab as part of a psychedelic renaissance." By the mid-1960s the backlash against the **use** of LSD and its perceived corrosive effects on cultural values resulted in governmental action to restrict the availability of the drug by making use of it illegal. LSD was declared a "Schedule I" sub...
1060. ...ssance." By the mid-1960s the backlash against the use of LSD and its perceived corrosive effects on cultural values resulted in governmental action to restrict the availability of the drug by making **use** of it illegal. LSD was declared a "Schedule I" substance, legally designating that the drug has a "high potential for abuse" and is without any "currently accepted medical use in treatment." LSD was...
1061. ...y of the drug by making use of it illegal. LSD was declared a "Schedule I" substance, legally designating that the drug has a "high potential for abuse" and is without any "currently accepted medical **use** in treatment." LSD was removed from legal circulation. The United States Drug Enforcement Administration claimed: The governors of Nevada and California each signed bills into law on May 30, 1966, th...
1062. ...ic drugs (initially mescaline) and his descriptions of them in his writings did much to spread awareness of psychedelic drugs to the general public and arguably helped to glamorize their recreational **use**, although Huxley himself treated them very seriously. Huxley was introduced to psychedelic drugs in 1953 by a friend, psychiatrist Humphry Osmond. Osmond had become interested in hallucinogens and th...
1063. ...hat he influenced the setup for future performances with The Beatles in the UK. In the summer of 1964, Kesey's Merry Pranksters customized a bus named "Furthur" and set out on a tour to propagate LSD **use**. Sidney Cohen was a Los Angeles-based psychiatrist. His work focused on the effects of psychedelics, primarily LSD. Cohen published 13 books in his life, all of them based on drugs and substance abus...
1064. ...r for the National Institute of Mental Health in their Division of Narcotic Addiction and Drug Abuse. He has been open about having taken LSD many times himself, but was always opposed to the growing **use** of LSD amongst members of the counterculture movement. Cohen thought LSD was safe only if used under medical supervision and that the average person was not equipped with the ability to handle the dr...
1065. ...ears of his sentence. The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) became interested in LSD when they read reports alleging that American prisoners during the Korean War were being brainwashed with the **use** of some sort of drug or "lie serum". LSD was the original centerpiece of the top secret MKULTRA project, an ambitious undertaking conducted from the 1950s through the 70s designed to explore the poss...
1066. ...1960 and 1963, the CIA gave $856,782 worth of grants to different organizations. The researchers eventually concluded that LSD's effects were too varied and uncontrollable to make it of any practical **use** as a truth drug, and the project moved on to other substances. It would be decades before the U.S. government admitted the existence of the project and offered apologies to the families of those who...
1067. ...decades before the U.S. government admitted the existence of the project and offered apologies to the families of those who were forced to participate in the experiments. During this time period, the **use** of LSD for psychochemical warfare was under consideration and testing, among other substances. Looking to replicate the effects of nerve gas created by the Germans during World War II without the tox...
1068. ...warfare was under consideration and testing, among other substances. Looking to replicate the effects of nerve gas created by the Germans during World War II without the toxicity, LSD was sought for **use** under the pretense that it could induce hysteria and psychoses, or at least an inability to fight without wholesale destruction of the enemy and their properties. Thousands of tests on willing resear...
1069. .... Thousands of tests on willing research subjects took place at the Edgewood Arsenal in Maryland, with the ultimate conclusion being that LSD was too unpredictable and uncontrollable for any tactical **use**. LSD began to be used recreationally in certain (primarily medical) circles. Mainly academics and medical professionals, who became acquainted with LSD in their work, began using it themselves and sh...
1070. ...to do so was British psychiatrist Humphry Osmond. LSD historian Jay Stevens, author of the 1987 book "Storming Heaven: LSD and the American Dream", has said that in the early days of its recreational **use**, LSD users (who were at that time mostly academics and medical professionals) fell into two broadly delineated groups. The first group, which was essentially conservative and exemplified by Aldous Hu...
1071. ...The first group, which was essentially conservative and exemplified by Aldous Huxley, felt that LSD was too powerful and too dangerous to allow its immediate and widespread introduction, and that its **use** ought to be restricted to the 'elite' members of society—artists, writers, scientists—who could mediate its gradual distribution throughout society. The second and more radical group, typified by Ric...
1072. ...s, this second 'group' of casual LSD users evolved and expanded into a subculture that extolled the mystical and religious symbolism often engendered by the drug's powerful effects, and advocated its **use** as a method of raising consciousness. The personalities associated with the subculture included spiritual gurus such as Leary and psychedelic rock musicians such as the Grateful Dead, Jimi Hendrix, P...
1073. ...he psychedelic bus "Furthur" and the Pranksters' later 'Acid Test' LSD parties. In 1965, Sandoz laboratories stopped its still legal shipments of LSD to the United States for research and psychiatric **use**, after a request from the U.S. government concerned about its use. By April 1966, LSD use had become so widespread that "Time" magazine warned about its dangers. In December 1966, the exploitation fi...
1074. ...LSD parties. In 1965, Sandoz laboratories stopped its still legal shipments of LSD to the United States for research and psychiatric use, after a request from the U.S. government concerned about its **use**. By April 1966, LSD use had become so widespread that "Time" magazine warned about its dangers. In December 1966, the exploitation film "Hallucination Generation" was released. This was followed by t...
1075. ...andoz laboratories stopped its still legal shipments of LSD to the United States for research and psychiatric use, after a request from the U.S. government concerned about its use. By April 1966, LSD **use** had become so widespread that "Time" magazine warned about its dangers. In December 1966, the exploitation film "Hallucination Generation" was released. This was followed by the films "The Trip" in 1...
1076. ...community. However, LSD dramatically decreased in popularity in the mid-1970s (see above graph which covers the period 2008). This decline was due to negative publicity centred on side-effects of LSD **use**, its criminalization, and the increasing effectiveness of drug law enforcement efforts, rather than new medical information. The last country to produce LSD legally (until 1975) was Czechoslovakia; d...
1077. ...he Julie task force were reputed to have had links to the mysterious The Brotherhood of Eternal Love and to Ronald Stark. LSD made a comeback in the 1980s accompanying the advent of recreational MDMA **use**, first in the punk and gothic subcultures through dance clubs, then in the 1990s through the acid house scene and rave subculture. LSD use and availability declined sharply following a raid of a larg...
1078. ...ck in the 1980s accompanying the advent of recreational MDMA use, first in the punk and gothic subcultures through dance clubs, then in the 1990s through the acid house scene and rave subculture. LSD **use** and availability declined sharply following a raid of a large scale LSD lab in 2000 (see LSD in the United States). The lab was run by William Leonard Pickard (who served 17 years of a two lifetime s...
1079. ...lab was allegedly producing a kilogram of LSD every five weeks, and the U.S. government contends that LSD supply dropped by 90% following the bust. In the decade after the bust, LSD availability and **use** has gradually risen. Since the late 1980s, there has also been a revival of hallucinogen research more broadly, which, in recent years, has included preclinical and clinical studies involving LSD and...
1080. ...ow the same as the INNs. For example, the old BAN "methicillin" was replaced with the current BAN "meticillin", matching the INN. This has resulted in an interesting situation in other countries that **use** BANs. While the British Pharmacopoeia and BANs are the official pharmacopoeia/names defined by legislation in many of these countries, the former BANs often continue to be used, purportedly because o...
1081. ...n representative from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) was appointed to serve on the USAN Council. The FDA announced in 1984 that it would discontinue adding drug names to its official list and **use** the USAN as the established name for labeling and advertising new single-entity drugs marketed in the United States. The AMA Council on Drugs no longer exists as a separate entity. The FDA now has a...
1082. ...n, nonproprietary names are not subject to proprietary trademark rights but are entirely in the public domain. This distinguishes them from the trademarked names that have been registered for private **use**. Assignment of a USAN takes into account practical considerations, such as the existence of trademarks, international harmonization of drug nomenclature, the development of new classes of drugs, and...
1083. ...e electron transport proteins are complementary to the non-metal electron transporters nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) and flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD). The nitrogen cycle make extensive **use** of metals for the redox interconversions. Several metal ions are toxic to humans and other animals. The bioinorganic chemistry of lead in the context of its toxicity has been reviewed. Aerobic life m...
1084. ...the redox interconversions. Several metal ions are toxic to humans and other animals. The bioinorganic chemistry of lead in the context of its toxicity has been reviewed. Aerobic life make extensive **use** of metals such as iron, copper, and manganese. Heme is utilized by red blood cells in the form of hemoglobin for oxygen transport and is perhaps the most recognized metal system in biology. Other oxy...
1085. ...e to determine a starting, safe dose for first-in-human study and assess potential toxicity of the product, which typically include new medical devices, prescription drugs, and diagnostics. Companies **use** stylized statistics to illustrate the risks in preclinical research, such as that on average, only one in every 5,000 compounds that enters drug discovery to the stage of preclinical development beco...
1086. ...verse effects. Depending on a drug's functional groups, it may be metabolized in similar or different ways between species, which will affect both efficacy and toxicology. Medical device studies also **use** this basic premise. Most studies are performed in larger species such as dogs, pigs and sheep which allow for testing in a similar sized model as that of a human. In addition, some species are used f...
1087. ...hich is carved into the wall of the company's New Jersey headquarters. The Credo states that the company's first responsibility is to “the doctors, nurses and patients, the mothers and all others who **use** our products”, and also sets out responsibilities to customers, suppliers, distributors, employees, communities and stockholders. In 1962, Johnson, as chairman of the board of J&J, fired his nephew,...
1088. ...e of chemicals involved in normal metabolism. The solution that has evolved to address this problem is an elegant combination of physical barriers and low-specificity enzymatic systems. All organisms **use** cell membranes as hydrophobic permeability barriers to control access to their internal environment. Polar compounds cannot diffuse across these cell membranes, and the uptake of useful molecules is...
1089. ...re was an emergence of standard formulas for the creation of certain 'drugs' and 'antidotes' through Pharmacopoeias which first appeared in the form of a decree from Frederick II of Sicily in 1240 to **use** consistent and standard formulas. The first modern pharmacopoeias were the Florence Pharmacopoeia published in 1498, the Spanish Pharmacopoeia published in 1581 and the London Pharmacopoeia published...
1090. ...ved the way for further advances in regulation and development for biological products. Rofecoxib represents a drug that was on the market that had not clearly represent the risks associated with the **use** drug which led to the concept of 'risk management planning' within the field of regulation by introducing the need to understand how various safety concerns would be managed. Various cases over recen...
1091. ...egarded by many as one of the easiest places to conduct clinical trials on new drug compounds. There are five categories from A to E to cover different types of delivery category: Medicines for Human **Use** in the United Kingdom are regulated by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). The availability of drugs is regulated by classification by the MHRA as part of marketing author...
1092. ...d for a local, independent and up-to-date source of drug information to foster rational prescribing. Reflecting contemporary Australian clinical practice and adhering to the principles of the quality **use** of medicines, it is generally considered the Australian equivalent to the British National Formulary on which it was partly modelled. AMH Pty Ltd, the publishing company created to develop and mainta...
1093. ...st has the same binding affinity (as shown in the figure 2). MedDRA A subscription-based product of the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** (ICH), MedDRA or Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities is a clinically validated international medical terminology dictionary-thesaurus used by regulatory authorities and the biopharmaceutical...
1094. ...h, German, Hungarian, Italian, Korean, Portuguese, Brazilian Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish. In MedDRA version 25.0, Swedish and Latvian translations were also added.  In many countries/regions the **use** of MedDRA by biopharmaceutical companies is mandated for safety reporting.  Many other industries, including tobacco and cosmetics, are also beginning to use MedDRA for capturing adverse health event...
1095. ...lso added.  In many countries/regions the use of MedDRA by biopharmaceutical companies is mandated for safety reporting.  Many other industries, including tobacco and cosmetics, are also beginning to **use** MedDRA for capturing adverse health events. All Regulatory Members of ICH are expected to implement MedDRA within 5 years.  As of 2020, the following ICH Regulatory Members have implemented MedDRA: E...
1096. ...of clinical information through a single standardized international medical terminology that can be used for regulatory communication and evaluation of data pertaining to medicinal products for human **use**. As a result, MedDRA is designed for use in the registration, documentation, and safety monitoring of medicinal products through all phases of the development life cycle. The single standardized term...
1097. ...standardized international medical terminology that can be used for regulatory communication and evaluation of data pertaining to medicinal products for human use. As a result, MedDRA is designed for **use** in the registration, documentation, and safety monitoring of medicinal products through all phases of the development life cycle. The single standardized terminology offers several clear advantages f...
1098. ...uencies helps MSSO adapt MedDRA accordingly. As global regulators expand the scope of product types they regulate, there is a corresponding increase in the adaptation of and interest in the proactive **use** of MedDRA before regulatory mandates. Such expansion has increased in MedDRA terms applicable to many product types. The addition of the 27th SOC Product issues in Version 19.0 has even further expan...
1099. ...MedDRA before regulatory mandates. Such expansion has increased in MedDRA terms applicable to many product types. The addition of the 27th SOC Product issues in Version 19.0 has even further expanded **use** of MedDRA for product quality, supply, distribution, manufacturing and quality system issue as well as device issues. https://www.meddra.org/how-to-use/support-documentation?current Apothecaries' sys...
1100. ...ssues in Version 19.0 has even further expanded use of MedDRA for product quality, supply, distribution, manufacturing and quality system issue as well as device issues. https://www.meddra.org/how-to-**use**/support-documentation?current Apothecaries' system The apothecaries' system, or apothecaries' weights and measures, is a historical system of mass and volume units that were used by physicians and ap...
1101. ...ystem of measures is a similar system of volume units based on the fluid ounce. For a long time, medical recipes were written in Latin, often using special symbols to denote weights and measures. The **use** of different measure and weight systems depending on the purpose was an almost universal phenomenon in Europe between the decline of the Roman Empire and metrication. This was connected with internat...
1102. ...ending on the purpose was an almost universal phenomenon in Europe between the decline of the Roman Empire and metrication. This was connected with international commerce, especially with the need to **use** the standards of the target market and to compensate for a common weighing practice that caused a difference between actual and nominal weight. In the 19th century, most European countries or cities...
1103. ..., the Irish pharmacopœia of 1850 introduced a new variant of the apothecaries' system which subdivided a new apothecaries' pound of 12 avoirdupois ounces instead of the troy pound. To allow effective **use** of the new system, new weight pieces were produced. Since an avoirdupois ounce corresponds to 28.35 g, the proposed system was very similar to that in use in Portugal and Spain, and in some locations...
1104. ...nstead of the troy pound. To allow effective use of the new system, new weight pieces were produced. Since an avoirdupois ounce corresponds to 28.35 g, the proposed system was very similar to that in **use** in Portugal and Spain, and in some locations in Italy. But it would have doubled the value of the avoirdupois drachm (an existing unit, but by then only used for weighing silk). Therefore, it conflic...
1105. ...based on that nearly obsolete unit. The Irish proposal was not widely adopted, but British legislation, in the form of the Medical Act 1858 (21 & 22 Vict. c. 90), was more radical: it prescribed the **use** of the avoirdupois system for the United Kingdom (then including Ireland), with none of the traditional subdivisions. This innovation was first used in the United British pharmacopœia of 1864, which...
1106. ...Measures Act 1878 (41 & 42 Vict. c. 49), but this act allowed the sale of drugs by apothecaries' weight as an exception.) Apothecaries' units of any kind became obsolete in the UK with the mandatory **use** of metric drug measurements from January 1, 1971. In the United States, the apothecaries' system remained official until it was abolished in 1971 in favour of the metric system. English-speaking coun...
1107. ...internationally much less common than those for weights.  There were also commonly used, but unofficial divisions of the Apothecaries' system, consisting of: In the United States, similar measures in **use** were once:  The cited book states, "In almost all cases the modern teacups, tablespoons, dessertspoons, and teaspoons, after careful test by the author, were found to average 25 percent greater capac...
1108. ...odern teacups, tablespoons, dessertspoons, and teaspoons, after careful test by the author, were found to average 25 percent greater capacity than the theoretical quantities given above, and thus the **use** of accurately graduated medicine glasses, which may be had now at a trifling cost, should be insisted upon." Apothecaries' measures eventually fell out of use in the U.K. and were officially abolishe...
1109. ...cal quantities given above, and thus the use of accurately graduated medicine glasses, which may be had now at a trifling cost, should be insisted upon." Apothecaries' measures eventually fell out of **use** in the U.K. and were officially abolished in 1971. In the U.S., they are still occasionally used, for example with prescribed medicine being sold in four-ounce (℥ iv) bottles. Until around 1900, medi...
1110. ...sold in four-ounce (℥ iv) bottles. Until around 1900, medical prescriptions and most European pharmacopoeias were written in Latin. Here is a typical example from the middle of the 19th century. The **use** of Latin ensured that the prescriptions could be read by an international audience. There was a technical reason why "3 ʒ" was written "ʒiij," and " ʒ" as "ʒss": Writing "iii" as "iij" would prevent...
1111. ...820 to 375.000 g, to match a similar reform in France. The British troy pound retained its value of 373.202 g until in 2000 it was legally defined in metric terms, as 373.2417216 g. (At this time its **use** was mainly confined to trading precious metals.) In the Romance speaking part of Europe the scruple was divided in 24 grains, in the rest of Europe in 20 grains. Notable exceptions were Venice and Si...
1112. ...m, together with the originally Greek drachm and a new subdivision of the scruple into either 20 ("barley") or 24 ("wheat") grains (). In some countries other units of the original system remained in **use**, for example in Spain the and . In some cases the apothecaries' and civil weight systems had the same ounces ("an ounce is an ounce"), but the civil pound consisted of 16 ounces. is Latin for the see...
1113. ...unce was divided into 9 drachms, rather than 8 drachms. Centuries later, the region around Salerno was the only exception to the rule that (except for skipping units that had regionally fallen out of **use**) the apothecaries' ounce was subdivided down to the scruple in exactly the same way as in the Roman system: It divided the ounce into 10 drachms. While there will naturally have been some changes thr...
1114. ...Romance countries. The weight of an apothecaries' pound was 345.1 g in Spain and 344.2 g in Portugal. As in Italy, some of the additional subdivisions of the Roman system, such as the , were still in **use** there. It was standard to use the , defined as 8 ounces, instead of the pound. In 18th century France, there was a national weight standard, the of 8 ounces. The civil pound of 16 ounces was equivale...
1115. ...of an apothecaries' pound was 345.1 g in Spain and 344.2 g in Portugal. As in Italy, some of the additional subdivisions of the Roman system, such as the , were still in use there. It was standard to **use** the , defined as 8 ounces, instead of the pound. In 18th century France, there was a national weight standard, the of 8 ounces. The civil pound of 16 ounces was equivalent to 2 marks, and it was also...
1116. ...) generally consisted of the standard twelve ounces, however. The civil weight systems were generally very similar to the apothecaries' system, and since the (or the , where different systems were in **use** for light and heavy goods) generally had a suitable weight for an apothecaries' pound it was often used for this purpose. Extreme cases were Rome and Genoa, where the same system was used for everyth...
1117. ...reme weights of 301 g and 420 g coexisted within one state and in immediate proximity. The Venice standard was also used elsewhere, for example in Udine. In Dubrovnik (called "Ragusa" until 1909) its **use** was partially continued for a long time in spite of the official Habsburg weight reform. The measure and weight systems for the large mainland part of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies were unified in...
1118. ...ch apothecaries' system, which otherwise remained a standard system of the Romance (24 grains per scruple) type. In Bruges, Amsterdam, Antwerp and other Flemish cities, a "troy" unit ("") was also in **use** as a standard for valuable materials and medicine. As in France, the way in which the Flemish troy ounce was subdivided depended on what was weighed. Unlike the French, the Flemish apothecaries divid...
1119. ...standard since 1761, and Prussia, followed by its neighbours Anhalt, Lippe and Mecklenburg, would diverge in the opposite direction with a reform in 1816. But in both cases apothecaries continued to **use** the Nuremberg standard unofficially for a long time after it became illegal. In Russia the apothecaries' system survived well into the 20th century. The Soviet Union officially abolished it only in J...
1120. ...g that even in the Austrian capital Vienna it took some time for the reform to become effective. In 1774, the used the new standard, and in 1783 all old apothecaries' weight pieces that were still in **use** were directed to be destroyed. Venice was not part of these reforms and kept its standard of approximately 25 g per ounce. When Austria started producing scales and weight pieces to the new standard...
1121. ...und was 375.00 g. Apart from rounding issues concerning the subdivisions, this corresponded exactly to the French . (The reform was not followed in the north German city of Lübeck, which continued to **use** the .) In Belgium, apothecaries' weight was metricated effective 1856. From 1803 to 1815, all German regions west of the River Rhine were French, organised in the Roer, Sarre, Rhin-et-Moselle, and Mo...
1122. ...ntial for survival, but nevertheless provide organisms that produce them an evolutionary advantage. Many secondary metabolites are cytotoxic and have been selected and optimized through evolution for **use** as "chemical warfare" agents against prey, predators, and competing organisms. Secondary or specialized metabolites are often unique to specific species, whereas primary metabolites are commonly foun...
1123. ...for biologically active natural products is known as bioprospecting. Pharmacognosy provides the tools to detect, isolate and identify bioactive natural products that could be developed for medicinal **use**. When an "active principle" is isolated from a traditional medicine or other biological material, this is known as a "hit". Subsequent scientific and legal work is then performed to validate the hit...
1124. ...mycinica"). Antiparasitic and antiviral drugs have similarly been derived from bacterial metabolites. Although most of the drugs derived from bacteria are employed as anti-infectives, some have found **use** in other fields of medicine. Botulinum toxin (from "Clostridium botulinum") and bleomycin (from "Streptomyces verticillus") are two examples. Botulinum, the neurotoxin responsible for botulism, can b...
1125. ...rings, acidic springs, alkaline springs, salt lakes, and the high pressure of deep ocean water, they possess enzymes that are functional under quite unusual conditions. These enzymes are of potential **use** in the food, chemical, and pharmaceutical industries, where biotechnological processes frequently involve high temperatures, extremes of pH, high salt concentrations, and / or high pressure. Examples...
1126. ...e natural products, with corals, sponges, tunicates, sea snails, and bryozoans yielding chemicals with interesting analgesic, antiviral, and anticancer activities. Two examples developed for clinical **use** include ω-conotoxin (from the marine snail "Conus magus") and ecteinascidin 743 (from the tunicate "Ecteinascidia turbinata"). The former, ω-conotoxin, is used to relieve severe and chronic pain, whi...
1127. ...enzyme inhibitor captopril. Captopril is based on the peptidic bradykinin potentiating factor isolated from venom of the Brazilian arrowhead viper ("Bothrops jararaca"). Numerous challenges limit the **use** of natural products for drug discovery, resulting in 21st century preference by pharmaceutical companies to dedicate discovery efforts toward high-throughput screening of pure synthetic compounds wit...
1128. ...uct is regulated as a drug, dietary supplement, food ingredient, or food. In the global market, there are significant product quality issues. Nutraceuticals from the international market may claim to **use** organic or exotic ingredients, yet the lack of regulation may compromise the safety and effectiveness of products. Companies looking to create a wide profit margin may create unregulated products ove...
1129. ...arkers, or different methods of testing for marker compounds. For example, St John's wort is often standardized to the hypericin that is now known not to be the "active ingredient" for antidepressant **use**. Other companies standardize to hyperforin or both, ignoring some 24 known additional possible active constituents. Many herbalists believe that the active ingredient in a plant is the plant itself....
1130. ...n injections. Severe side effects include reactivation of hepatitis B in those previously infected, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and death. It is unclear if **use** during pregnancy is safe for the developing fetus or newborn baby. Rituximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody against the protein CD20, which is primarily found on the surface of immune system B cel...
1131. ...onoclonal antibody against the protein CD20, which is primarily found on the surface of immune system B cells. When it binds to this protein it triggers cell death. Rituximab was approved for medical **use** in 1997. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Rituxan is co-marketed by Biogen and Genentech in the US, by Roche elsewhere except Japan, and co-marketed by Chugai Pha...
1132. ...previously treated CD20-positive chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Rituximab has been shown to be an effective rheumatoid arthritis treatment in three randomised controlled trials and is now licensed for **use** in refractory rheumatoid disease. In the United States, it has been FDA approved for use in combination with methotrexate for reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with moderately to severely...
1133. ...o be an effective rheumatoid arthritis treatment in three randomised controlled trials and is now licensed for use in refractory rheumatoid disease. In the United States, it has been FDA approved for **use** in combination with methotrexate for reducing signs and symptoms in adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who have had an inadequate response to one or more anti...
1134. ...everely active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who have had an inadequate response to one or more anti-TNF-alpha therapy. In the European Union, the license is slightly more restrictive: it is licensed for **use** in combination with methotrexate in patients with severe active RA who have had an inadequate response to one or more anti-TNF therapy. There is some evidence for efficacy, but not necessarily safety...
1135. ...in combination with rituximab or non-US licensed rituximab, administered as six infusions of rituximab IV at a dose of 375 mg/m2 as per the Lymphome Malin B scheme. Rituximab was approved for medical **use** in the United States in November 1997. Biosimilars are approved in the United States, India, the European Union, Switzerland, Japan, and Australia. The US FDA approved rituximab-abbs (Truxima) in 201...
1136. ...d Australia. The US FDA approved rituximab-abbs (Truxima) in 2018, rituximab-pvvr (Ruxience) in 2019, and rituximab-arrx (Riabni) in 2020. In July 2024, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human **Use** of the European Medicines Agency adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of marketing authorization to Dr. Reddy's Laboratories / Holding GmbH for their rituximab biosimilar Ituxredi, i...
1137. ...f non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, rheumatoid arthritis, granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis and pemphigus vulgaris. Ituxredi was authorized for medical **use** in the European Union in September 2024. Dr Reddy's Rituximab biosimilar Reditux was approved in India in 2007. In 2014, Genentech reclassified Rituxan as a specialty drug, a class of drugs that are...
1138. ...ngent during the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries. It was named after its introducer, Thomas Goulard. Lead poisoning and the development of more effective astringents caused doctors to abandon its **use**. Synonymous or very closely related formulations were known as "liquor plumbi subacetis dilutus", "eau de Goulard", extract of Saturn, vinegar of Saturn, and liquid acetate of lead. The white water "...
1139. ...are usually understood to range from 1 to 1000 nm. Being much smaller than the wavelengths of visible light (400-700 nm), nanoparticles cannot be seen with ordinary optical microscopes, requiring the **use** of electron microscopes or microscopes with laser. For the same reason, dispersions of nanoparticles in transparent media can be transparent, whereas suspensions of larger particles usually scatter s...
1140. ...ration. Using magnetron sputtering to create the metal vapor allows to achieve higher yields. The method can easily be generalized to alloy nanoparticles by choosing appropriate metallic targets. The **use** of sequential growth schemes, where the particles travel through a second metallic vapor, results in growth of core-shell (CS) structures. Nanoparticles can also be formed using radiation chemistry....
1141. ...cells can help nanoparticles evade the immune system. The chemical processing and synthesis of high-performance technological components for the private, industrial, and military sectors requires the **use** of high-purity ceramics (oxide ceramics, such as aluminium oxide or copper(II) oxide), polymers, glass-ceramics, and composite materials, as metal carbides (SiC), nitrides (Aluminum nitrides, Silicon...
1142. ...ntial applications in pre-clinical and clinical medicine, physics, optics, and electronics. The U.S. National Nanotechnology Initiative offers government funding focused on nanoparticle research. The **use** of nanoparticles in laser dye-doped poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) laser gain media was demonstrated in 2003 and it has been shown to improve conversion efficiencies and to decrease laser beam dive...
1143. ...). Other applications include hormone replacement therapy, treatment of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Nasal sprays are seen as a more efficient way of transporting drugs with potential **use** in crossing the blood–brain barrier. Antihistamines work by competing for receptor sites to block the function of histamine, thereby reducing the inflammatory effect. Antihistamine nasal sprays inclu...
1144. ...mptoms. Decongestant nasal sprays are available over-the-counter in many countries. They work to very quickly open up nasal passages by constricting blood vessels in the lining of the nose. Prolonged **use** of these types of sprays can damage the delicate mucous membranes in the nose. This causes increased inflammation, an effect known as rhinitis medicamentosa or the rebound effect. Decongestant nasal...
1145. ...ge the delicate mucous membranes in the nose. This causes increased inflammation, an effect known as rhinitis medicamentosa or the rebound effect. Decongestant nasal sprays are advised for short-term **use** only, preferably 5 to 7 days at maximum. Some doctors advise to use them 3 days at maximum. A recent clinical trial has shown that a corticosteroid nasal spray may be useful in reversing this conditi...
1146. ...inflammation, an effect known as rhinitis medicamentosa or the rebound effect. Decongestant nasal sprays are advised for short-term use only, preferably 5 to 7 days at maximum. Some doctors advise to **use** them 3 days at maximum. A recent clinical trial has shown that a corticosteroid nasal spray may be useful in reversing this condition. Topical nasal decongestants include: Combination use of two medi...
1147. ...s advise to use them 3 days at maximum. A recent clinical trial has shown that a corticosteroid nasal spray may be useful in reversing this condition. Topical nasal decongestants include: Combination **use** of two medications as nasal spray preparation has been frequently prescribed by doctors. List of some combination nasal sprays: In some countries, Dymista is marketed by Viatris after Upjohn merged w...
1148. ...-5 may be considered serious. This refers to individual case safety reports that involve a serious and unlisted event (an event not described in the drug's labeling) that is considered related to the **use** of the drug (US FDA). (Spontaneous reports are typically considered to have a positive causality, whereas a clinical trial case will typically be assessed for causality by the clinical trial investig...
1149. ...an attempt to confirm or refute the signal. If the analysis is inconclusive, additional data may be needed such as a post-marketing observational trial. Signal detection is an essential part of drug **use** and safety surveillance. Ideally, the goal of signal detection is to identify adverse drug reactions that were previously considered unexpected and to be able to provide guidance in the product's lab...
1150. ...risk of using the drug in a given patient population. A risk management plan is a documented plan that describes the risks (adverse drug reactions and potential adverse reactions) associated with the **use** of a drug and how they are being handled (warning on drug label or on packet inserts of possible side effects which if observed should cause the patient to inform/see his physician and/or pharmacist...
1151. ...n risks. Also described within a risk management plan are the measures that the Market Authorization Holder, usually a pharmaceutical company, will undertake to minimize the risks associated with the **use** of the drug. These measures are usually focused on the product's labeling and healthcare professionals. Indeed, the risks that are documented in a pre-authorization risk management plan will inevitab...
1152. ...ment plan will inevitably become part of the product's post-marketing labeling. Since a drug, once authorized, may be used in ways not originally studied in clinical trials, this potential "off-label **use**", and its associated risks, is also described within the risk management plan. Risk management plans can be very lengthy documents, running in some cases hundreds of pages and, in rare instances, up...
1153. ...comprehensive as a risk management plan, a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy can require a sponsor to perform certain activities or to follow a protocol, referred to as Elements to Assure Safe **Use**, to assure that a positive risk-benefit profile for the drug is maintained for the circumstances under which the product is marketed. Pharmaceutical companies are required by law in most countries to...
1154. ...Pharmacovigilance is an international non-profit scientific organization, which aims to foster pharmacovigilance both scientifically and educationally, and enhance all aspects of the safe and proper **use** of medicines, in all countries. It was established in 1992 as the European Society of Pharmacovigilance. Society of Pharmacovigilance, India, also established in 1992, is partner member of the Intern...
1155. ...s with international practices and standards, helping to elevate the country's drug safety levels.  The development of pharmacovigilance in Azerbaijan aims to increase public awareness about the safe **use** of medicines and improve the overall quality of the healthcare system. The integration of international standards and best practices in pharmacovigilance, spearheaded by companies like Pharmcontrol (...
1156. ...edical devices that they have distributed or imported in the European market. The safety of herbal medicines has become a major concern to both national health authorities and the general public. The **use** of herbs as traditional medicines continues to expand rapidly across the world; many people now take herbal medicines or herbal products for their health care in different national health-care settin...
1157. ...considered a subfield of botany or chemistry. Activities can be led in botanical gardens or in the wild with the aid of ethnobotany. Phytochemical studies directed toward human (i.e. drug discovery) **use** may fall under the discipline of pharmacognosy, whereas phytochemical studies focused on the ecological functions and evolution of phytochemicals likely fall under the discipline of chemical ecology....
1158. ...the reduction of contralateral (in the opposite breast) cancer. Five years of adjuvant tamoxifen treatment significantly lowers the 15-year risk of breast cancer recurrence and mortality. The overall **use** of tamoxifen is recommended for 10 years.  In 2006, the large STAR clinical study concluded that raloxifene is also effective in reducing the incidence of breast cancer. Updated results after an aver...
1159. ...a rapid increase in triglyceride concentration in the blood. In addition, there is an increased risk of thromboembolism especially during and immediately after major surgery or periods of immobility. **Use** of tamoxifen has been shown to slightly increase risk of deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, and stroke. Tamoxifen has been associated with a number of cases of hepatotoxicity. Several differen...
1160. ...f hepatotoxicity have been reported. Tamoxifen can also precipitate non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in obese and overweight women (not in normal weight women) at an average rate of 40% after a year **use** with 20 mg/day. Acute overdose of tamoxifen has not been reported in humans. In dose-ranging studies, tamoxifen was administered at very high doses in women (e.g., 300 mg/m) and was found to produce...
1161. ...n breast cancer patients lead to a worse clinical outcome for tamoxifen treatment. Genotyping therefore has the potential for identification of women who have these CYP2D6 phenotypes and for whom the **use** of tamoxifen is associated with poor outcomes. Recent research has shown that 7–10% of women with breast cancer may not receive the full medical benefit from taking tamoxifen due to their genetic mak...
1162. ...animals. This unusual profile of DRI activity has made tamoxifen of potential interest as a starting point for structural modification to develop novel pharmaceutical drugs for treatment of stimulant **use** disorder. Tamoxifen is rapidly and extensively absorbed from the intestines with oral administration. The oral bioavailability of tamoxifen is approximately 100%, which is suggestive of minimal first...
1163. ...used to dissolve the drug and make a liquid form. It replaced the earlier Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906. The FDC Act has ten chapters: The FD&C Act is perhaps best known to consumers because of its **use** in the naming of food coloring additives, such as "FD&C Yellow No. 6". The Act made the certification of some food color additives mandatory. The FDA lists nine FD&C (Food, Drugs & Cosmetics) certifi...
1164. ...coloring additives, such as "FD&C Yellow No. 6". The Act made the certification of some food color additives mandatory. The FDA lists nine FD&C (Food, Drugs & Cosmetics) certified color additives for **use** in foods in the United States, and numerous D&C (Drugs & Cosmetics) colorings allowed only in drugs for external application or cosmetics. Color additives derived from natural sources, such as vegeta...
1165. ...ificial counterparts of natural derivatives, are exempt from certification. Both artificial and naturally derived color additives are subject to rigorous standards of safety before their approval for **use** in foods. The FFDCA requires producers of food additives to demonstrate to a reasonable certainty that no harm will result from the intended use of an additive. If the FDA finds an additive to be saf...
1166. ...rigorous standards of safety before their approval for use in foods. The FFDCA requires producers of food additives to demonstrate to a reasonable certainty that no harm will result from the intended **use** of an additive. If the FDA finds an additive to be safe the agency issues a regulation specifying the conditions under which the additive may be safely used. A shortened definition of "food additive"...
1167. ...fe the agency issues a regulation specifying the conditions under which the additive may be safely used. A shortened definition of "food additive" is defined by the FDA as "any substance the intended **use** of which results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristic of any food (including any substance intended f...
1168. ...which results or may reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in its becoming a component or otherwise affecting the characteristic of any food (including any substance intended for **use** in producing, manufacturing, packing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food; and including any source of radiation intended for any such use); if such substance is...
1169. ...substance intended for use in producing, manufacturing, packing, processing, preparing, treating, packaging, transporting, or holding food; and including any source of radiation intended for any such **use**); if such substance is not GRAS or sanctioned prior to 1958 or otherwise excluded from the definition of food additives." The full definition can be found in Section 201(s) of the FD&C Act, which pro...
1170. ...device"). If a device being submitted is significantly different, relative to a pre-1976 device, in terms of design, material, chemical composition, energy source, manufacturing process, or intended **use**, the device nominally must go through a premarket approval, or PMA. A device that reaches market via the 510(k) process is not considered to be "approved" by the FDA. Nevertheless, it can be marketed...
1171. ...formation about how the medical device was designed and how it is manufactured, as well as preclinical and clinical studies of the device, demonstrating that it is safe and effective for its intended **use**. Because the PMA requires a clinical trial it is significantly more expensive than a 510(k). The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997 created section 513(f)(2) of the FD&C Act, whic...
1172. ...ield study, combed through more than 800 works of literature, and compiled material from the copious historical "bencao" literature. He modelled his work on a Song dynasty compilation, especially its **use** of non-medical texts. He worked for more than three decades, with the help of his son, Li Jianyuan, who drew the illustrations. He finished a draft of the text in 1578, the printer began to carve the...
1173. ...r software companies, in government, the military, or in teaching. Job responsibilities often include dispensing prescription drugs and other medical devices to patients and instructing them on their **use**. They may also perform administrative duties in a pharmaceutical practice, such as reviewing prescription requests with medical practices and insurance companies to ensure correct medications are pro...
1174. ...arian, in Latvian, () in Serbian, () in Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian and Ukrainian, in German and in Polish. The word in Indonesian is , which was borrowed from the Dutch . In Yiddish the word is . **Use** of the term in the names of businesses varies with time and location. It is generally an Americanism, though some areas of the United States use it to invoke an experience of nostalgic revival and it...
1175. ...was borrowed from the Dutch . In Yiddish the word is . Use of the term in the names of businesses varies with time and location. It is generally an Americanism, though some areas of the United States **use** it to invoke an experience of nostalgic revival and it has been used for a wide variety of businesses; while in other areas such as California its use is restricted to licensed pharmacies. The profes...
1176. ...ricanism, though some areas of the United States use it to invoke an experience of nostalgic revival and it has been used for a wide variety of businesses; while in other areas such as California its **use** is restricted to licensed pharmacies. The profession of apothecary can be dated back at least to 2600 BC to ancient Babylon, which provides one of the earliest records of the practice of the apotheca...
1177. ...65 treatments, had a focus on roots and grass. It had treatments which came from minerals, roots and grass, and animals. Many of the mentioned drugs and their uses are still followed today. Ginseng's **use** as a sexual stimulant and aid for erectile dysfunction stems from this book. Ma huang, an herb first mentioned in the book, led to the introduction of the drug ephedrine into modern medicine. Accordi...
1178. ...ons as well as medicines, and as is still the case, medicines could be either beneficial or harmful if inappropriately used. Protective methods to prevent accidental ingestion of poisons included the **use** of specially-shaped containers for potentially poisonous substances such as laudanum. Apothecary businesses were typically family-run, and wives or other women of the family worked alongside their hu...
1179. ...me medical advice, in particular remedies and healing. Many recipes for medicines included herbs, minerals, and pieces of animals (meats, fats, skins) that were ingested, made into paste for external **use**, or used as aromatherapy. Some of these are similar to natural remedies used today, including catnip, chamomile, fennel, mint, garlic, and witch hazel. Many other ingredients used in the past such as...
1180. ...on-related harm type includes not taking prescribed medications, known as non-adherence. Non-adherence to medications can lead to death and other negative outcomes. Adverse drug reactions require the **use** of a medication. Types A and B were proposed in the 1970s, and the other types were proposed subsequently when the first two proved insufficient to classify ADRs. Other types of adverse drug reaction...
1181. ...mber of different methods used to judge causation, including the Naranjo algorithm, the Venulet algorithm and the WHO causality term assessment criteria. Each have pros and cons associated with their **use** and most require some level of expert judgement to apply. An ADR should not be labeled as 'certain' unless the ADR abates with a challenge-dechallenge-rechallenge protocol (stopping and starting the...
1182. ...023. The market's growth pace will also pick up speed throughout this time. Silicone and rubber oxygen masks are heavier than plastic masks. They are designed to provide a good seal for long-duration **use** by aviators, medical research subjects, and hyperbaric chamber and other patients who require administration of pure oxygen, such as carbon monoxide poisoning and decompression sickness victims. Dr....
1183. .... Some types of oxygen masks have a breathing bag made of plastic or rubber attached to the mask or oxygen supply hose to store a supply of oxygen to allow deep breathing without waste of oxygen with **use** of simple fixed flow regulators. An early 1919 high-altitude oxygen system used a vacuum flask of liquid oxygen to supply two people for one hour at . The liquid passed through several warming stages...
1184. ...le fixed flow regulators. An early 1919 high-altitude oxygen system used a vacuum flask of liquid oxygen to supply two people for one hour at . The liquid passed through several warming stages before **use**, as expansion when it evaporated, and absorbed latent heat of vaporization, would make the gasified oxygen so cold that it could cause instant frostbite of the lungs. The first successful creation fo...
1185. ...particles, and effects of a high speed air stream hitting the face during emergency evacuation from the aircraft by ejection seat or parachute. They are often part of a pressure suit or intended for **use** with a flight helmet. Three main kinds of oxygen masks are used by pilots and crews who fly at high altitudes: continuous flow, diluter demand, and pressure demand. In a "continuous-flow system", oxy...
1186. ...hambers and for oxygen breathing research projects with standard oxygen regulators. Supplemental oxygen is needed for flying more than 30 minutes at cabin pressure altitudes of or higher, pilots must **use** oxygen at all times above and each occupant must be provided supplemental oxygen above . Most commercial aircraft are fitted with oxygen masks for use when cabin pressurization fails. In general, com...
1187. ...bin pressure altitudes of or higher, pilots must use oxygen at all times above and each occupant must be provided supplemental oxygen above . Most commercial aircraft are fitted with oxygen masks for **use** when cabin pressurization fails. In general, commercial aircraft are pressurized so that the cabin air is at a pressure equivalent to no more than altitude (usually somewhat lower altitude), where on...
1188. ...he early years of commercial flight, before pressurized cabins were invented, airliner passengers sometimes had to wear oxygen masks during routine flights. Firefighters and emergency service workers **use** full face masks that provide breathing air as well as eye and face protection. These masks are typically attached to a tank carried upon the back of the wearer and are called self-contained breathing...
1189. ...e used by astronauts to remove nitrogen from their blood before space walks (EVA). Specialized snout masks which supply oxygen to revive family pets have been donated to fire departments. Divers only **use** pure oxygen for accelerated decompression, or from oxygen rebreathers at shallow depths where the risk of acute oxygen toxicity is acceptable. Oxygen supply during in-water decompression is via rebre...
1190. ...lace as the anaesthetist controls the gases and oxygen inhaled. Oxygen masks are used by climbers of high peaks such as Mount Everest. Because of the severe cold and harsh conditions oxygen masks for **use** at extreme altitude must be robust and effective. The oxygen storage tanks used with the masks (called oxygen bottles) are made of lightweight, high-strength metals and are covered in high-strength f...
1191. ...as advantages and disadvantages and can be selected based on individually specific patient needs, as well as age, pathological conditions, coordination, and lung function. Proper education on inhaler **use** is important to ensure that inhaled medication creates its proper effects in the lungs. Using a spacer can ensure that more medicine reaches the lungs, thus providing the most optimal treatment. Inha...
1192. ...as salbutamol (known commonly as "Ventolin") and salmeterol. These medications allow for patients to have relief of airway obstruction symptoms and reduced inflammation. If some people are unable to **use** inhalers, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may be used, but with caution since they may cause immunological hypersensitivity to NSAIDs, resulting in respiratory-related symptoms such as...
1193. ...er in which the powdered medication is deposited prior to each dosage. The powder can then be inhaled with a quick breath. This allows for medication to be delivered to the lungs without the need for **use** of propellant/suspension. Soft mist inhalers release a light mist containing medication without the need for a propellant/suspension. Upon pressing a button, the inhaler creates a mist of medication,...
1194. ...ich is longer than the average MDI inhaler suspension time period. This requires less coordination when using and may be helpful for young patients or patients that find the MDI inhalers difficult to **use**. Nebulizers are designed to deliver medications over an extended period of time over multiple breaths through a mouthpiece or face mask. They generate a continuous mist with aerosolized medication, a...
1195. ...des the time of day, air quality, and how many times it has been used through sensor technology on the device. The first smart-inhaler was approved in 2019 by the FDA, its purpose is to track patient **use** of the device and some other circumstantial factors that could affect the effectiveness of the dosage. This information is sent via Bluetooth to a mobile device app, and is later shared with their ph...
1196. ...orded all doses administered by patients with their technology, which signifies their importance in providing accurate dosage information to patients and their physicians. In 2009, the FDA banned the **use** of inhalers that use chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) as propellants. In their place, inhalers now use hydrofluoroalkane (HFA). HFA is not environmentally inert as it is a greenhouse gas but it does not aff...
1197. ...istered by patients with their technology, which signifies their importance in providing accurate dosage information to patients and their physicians. In 2009, the FDA banned the use of inhalers that **use** chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) as propellants. In their place, inhalers now use hydrofluoroalkane (HFA). HFA is not environmentally inert as it is a greenhouse gas but it does not affect the ozone layer....
1198. ...in providing accurate dosage information to patients and their physicians. In 2009, the FDA banned the use of inhalers that use chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) as propellants. In their place, inhalers now **use** hydrofluoroalkane (HFA). HFA is not environmentally inert as it is a greenhouse gas but it does not affect the ozone layer. While some people with asthma and advocacy groups contend that HFA inhalers...
1199. ...ch in propellants. Patients expressed concern about the high price of the HFA inhalers as there were initially no generic versions, whereas generic CFC inhalers had been available. It is important to **use** proper techniques when administering medications through inhalers. Proper use of inhalers often involves initial deep breathing (which involves mostly the diaphragm's movements), and then rapid breat...
1200. ...inhalers as there were initially no generic versions, whereas generic CFC inhalers had been available. It is important to use proper techniques when administering medications through inhalers. Proper **use** of inhalers often involves initial deep breathing (which involves mostly the diaphragm's movements), and then rapid breathing (which involves most of the muscles of respiration, such as external and...
1201. ...ements), and then rapid breathing (which involves most of the muscles of respiration, such as external and internal intercostal muscles) during intake of one or more puffs from the inhalers. Improper **use** of inhalers is very common, can lead to distribution of the medicine into the mouth or throat where it cannot create its desired effect and may cause harm. Education on the correct use of inhalers fo...
1202. ...lers. Improper use of inhalers is very common, can lead to distribution of the medicine into the mouth or throat where it cannot create its desired effect and may cause harm. Education on the correct **use** of inhalers for delivery of medications is a commonly cited topic in medical studies and a great deal of thought has been put into how best to help people learn to use their inhalers effectively. Bel...
1203. ...harm. Education on the correct use of inhalers for delivery of medications is a commonly cited topic in medical studies and a great deal of thought has been put into how best to help people learn to **use** their inhalers effectively. Below is a description of proper inhaler technique for each different type of inhaler as well as a helpful video explaining what the text states. Spacer is placed at the m...
1204. ...rimed the first time using a new cartridge, but it may need to be primed again if it has not been used in multiple days. If using inhaled corticosteroids, one should wash the mouth out directly after **use** of an inhaler. This helps to prevent mouth infections that can occur due to immunosuppressant effects of corticosteroids. In the United States, pharmaceutical manufacturers use legal and regulatory s...
1205. ...uth out directly after use of an inhaler. This helps to prevent mouth infections that can occur due to immunosuppressant effects of corticosteroids. In the United States, pharmaceutical manufacturers **use** legal and regulatory strategies to keep inhaler prices artificially high. There has been little innovation in inhaler technology for decades the most recent drug to be approved by the FDA for treatin...
1206. ...cause of high prices, patients sometimes skip doses or give up using their inhalers. The idea of directly delivering medication into the lungs was based on ancient traditional cures that involved the **use** of aromatic and medicinal vapors. These did not involve any special devices beyond the apparatus used for burning or heating to produce fumes. Early inhalation devices included one devised by John Mu...
1207. ...ely utilized for analgesia and sedation until the early 1970s, in a manner that foreshadowed the patient-controlled analgesia infusion pumps of today. The Analgizer inhaler was withdrawn in 1974, but **use** of methoxyflurane as a sedative and analgesic continues in Australia and New Zealand in the form of the Penthrox inhaler. Clinical pharmacology Clinical pharmacology is "that discipline that teaches,...
1208. ...therapeutics. It has a broad scope, from the discovery of new target molecules to the effects of drug usage in whole populations. The main aim of clinical pharmacology is to generate data for optimum **use** of drugs and the practice of 'evidence-based medicine'. Clinical pharmacologists have medical and scientific training that enables them to evaluate evidence and produce new data through well-designed...
1209. ...eutic practices were based on Hippocratic humoral theory, popularized by the Greek physician Galen (129 – c. AD 216) and not on experimentation. In around the 17th century physicians started to apply **use** methods to study traditional remedies, although they still lacked methods to test the hypotheses they had about how drugs worked. By the late 18th century and early 19th century, methods of experimen...
1210. ...the drug involved, on the basis of which it could fairly and responsibly be concluded by such experts that the drug will have the effect it purports or is represented to have under the conditions of **use** prescribed, recommended, or suggested in the labeling or proposed labeling thereof." This standard lies at the heart of the regulatory program for drugs. Data for the submission must include those fr...
1211. ...ses: The legal requirements for safety and effectiveness have been interpreted as requiring scientific evidence that the benefits of a drug outweigh the risks and that adequate instructions exist for **use**, since many drugs have adverse side effects. The results of the testing program are codified in an FDA-approved public document that is called the "product label," package insert or Full Prescribing...
1212. ...drug manufacturers, and frequently inserted into drug packages. The main purpose of a drug label is to provide healthcare providers and consumers with adequate information and directions for the safe **use** of the drug. The documentation required in an NDA is supposed to tell "the drug’s whole story, including what happened during the clinical tests, what the ingredients of the drug are, the results of...
1213. ...g and Cosmetics Act, because these products were already approved when legislation to regulate biotechnology medicines later passed as part of the Public Health Services Act. Medications intended for **use** in animals are submitted to a different center within FDA, the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM) in a New Animal Drug Application (NADA). These are also specifically evaluated for their use in foo...
1214. ...ed for use in animals are submitted to a different center within FDA, the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM) in a New Animal Drug Application (NADA). These are also specifically evaluated for their **use** in food animals and their possible effect on the food from animals treated with the drug. Eye drop Eye drops or eyedrops are liquid drops applied directly to the surface of the eye usually in small a...
1215. ...medicines, and such risk can be minimized by occluding the lacrimal punctum (i.e. pressing on the inner corner of the eye) for a short while after instilling drops. Prior to the development of single-**use** pre-loaded sterile plastic applicators, eye drops were administered using an eye dropper, a glass pipette with a rubber bulb. Although most bottles of eye drops contain preservatives to inhibit conta...
1216. ...ot prevent contamination indefinitely. Ophthalmologists recommend keeping bottles for no longer than three months after opening. Eye drops that contain no preservatives are usually packaged in single-**use** tubes. Dispensers typically oversize the drops; the human eye can only handle about 25 microlitres. Different pharmacological classes of eye drops can be recognized by patients by their different col...
1217. ...ey also have prophylactic properties and are used to prevent infections after eye surgeries. They should be used for the entire time prescribed without interruptions. The infection may relapse if the **use** of the medication is stopped. Antibiotic eye drops are prescribed when infection conjunctivitis is caused by bacteria but not when it is caused by a virus. In the case of allergic conjunctivitis, art...
1218. ...uted in modern needle-exchange programmes as they can be used efficiently either by injection or ophthalmic (if the drug is potent in small doses) route of administer which is compared to intravenous **use**; by demonstration, the elimination of latanoprost acid from plasma is rapid (half-life 17 minutes) after either ophthalmic or intravenous administration. Steroid and antibiotic eye drops may cause st...
1219. ...or bruising when using drops with chloramphenicol. Also, one should be aware of symptoms of an allergic reaction, such as: rash, itching, swelling, dizziness, and trouble breathing. Long term steroid **use** can cause many adverse effects including steroid-induced glaucoma and cataract. Prostaglandin analogs may cause changes in iris color and eyelid skin, growth of eyelashes, stinging, blurred vision, e...
1220. ...ed "recombinant proteins". When recombinant DNA encoding a protein is introduced into a host organism, the recombinant protein is not necessarily produced. Expression of foreign proteins requires the **use** of specialized expression vectors and often necessitates significant restructuring by foreign coding sequences. Recombinant DNA differs from genetic recombination in that the former results from arti...
1221. ...eleterious effects even if it is not expressed. One mechanism by which this happens is insertional inactivation, in which the rDNA becomes inserted into a host cell's gene. In some cases, researchers **use** this phenomenon to "knock out" genes to determine their biological function and importance. Another mechanism by which rDNA insertion into chromosomal DNA can affect gene expression is by inappropria...
1222. ...sion undergoes insertional inactivation by recombinant DNA. Recombinant DNA is widely used in biotechnology, medicine and research. Today, recombinant proteins and other products that result from the **use** of DNA technology are found in essentially every pharmacy, physician or veterinarian office, medical testing laboratory, and biological research laboratory. In addition, organisms that have been mani...
1223. ...almost completely replaced insulin obtained from animal sources (e.g. pigs and cattle) for the treatment of type 1 diabetes. A variety of different recombinant insulin preparations are in widespread **use**. Recombinant insulin is synthesized by inserting the human insulin gene into "E. coli", or yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) which then produces insulin for human use. Insulin produced by E. coli requ...
1224. ...in preparations are in widespread use. Recombinant insulin is synthesized by inserting the human insulin gene into "E. coli", or yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) which then produces insulin for human **use**. Insulin produced by E. coli requires further post translational modifications (e.g. glycosylation) whereas yeasts are able to perform these modifications themselves by virtue of being more complex h...
1225. ...ions (e.g. glycosylation) whereas yeasts are able to perform these modifications themselves by virtue of being more complex host organisms. The advantage of recombinant human insulin is after chronic **use** patients don't develop an immune defence against it the way animal sourced insulin stimulates the human immune system. Administered to patients whose pituitary glands generate insufficient quantities...
1226. ...immune system. Administered to patients whose pituitary glands generate insufficient quantities to support normal growth and development. Before recombinant HGH became available, HGH for therapeutic **use** was obtained from pituitary glands of cadavers. This unsafe practice led to some patients developing Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease. Recombinant HGH eliminated this problem, and is now used therapeuticall...
1227. ...m multiple donors, which carried a very high risk of transmission of blood borne infectious diseases, for example HIV and hepatitis B. Hepatitis B infection can be successfully controlled through the **use** of a recombinant subunit hepatitis B vaccine, which contains a form of the hepatitis B virus surface antigen that is produced in yeast cells. The development of the recombinant subunit vaccine was an...
1228. ...s responsible for β-carotene biosynthesis. This variety of rice holds substantial promise for reducing the incidence of vitamin A deficiency in the world's population. Golden rice is not currently in **use**, pending the resolution of regulatory and intellectual property issues. Commercial varieties of important agricultural crops (including soy, maize/corn, sorghum, canola, alfalfa and cotton) have been...
1229. ...corporate a recombinant gene that results in resistance to the herbicide glyphosate (trade name "Roundup"), and simplifies weed control by glyphosate application. These crops are in common commercial **use** in several countries. "Bacillus thuringiensis" is a bacterium that naturally produces a protein (Bt toxin) with insecticidal properties. The bacterium has been applied to crops as an insect-control s...
1230. ...gardening. Recently, plants have been developed that express a recombinant form of the bacterial protein, which may effectively control some insect predators. Environmental issues associated with the **use** of these transgenic crops have not been fully resolved. The idea of recombinant DNA was first proposed by Peter Lobban, a graduate student of Prof. Dale Kaiser in the Biochemistry Department at Stanf...
1231. ...health and the overall environment. Common Technical Document The Common Technical Document (CTD) is a set of specifications for an application dossier for the registration of medicine, designed for **use** across Europe, Japan, the United States, and beyond. The CTD is an internationally agreed format for the preparation of applications regarding new drugs intended to be submitted to regional regulator...
1232. ...ce of Drug Regulatory Authorities (ICDRA) at Paris in 1989. The CTD is maintained by the International Council on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** (ICH). After the United States, European Union and Japan, the CTD was adopted by several other countries including Canada and Switzerland. Paper CTDs are destined for replacement by their electronic...
1233. ...ch module are specified for all jurisdictions. The contents of Module 1 and certain subheadings of others differ based on national requirements. However, investigational new drugs meant for emergency **use** or treatment applications and not for commercial distribution are not subject to the CTD requirements. Cisplatin Cisplatin is a chemical compound with formula "cis"-. It is a coordination complex of...
1234. ...hearing problems including severe hearing loss, kidney damage, and vomiting. Other serious side effects include numbness, trouble walking, allergic reactions, electrolyte problems, and heart disease. **Use** during pregnancy can cause harm to the developing fetus. Cisplatin is in the platinum-based antineoplastic family of medications. It works in part by binding to DNA and inhibiting its replication. Ci...
1235. ...splatin is in the platinum-based antineoplastic family of medications. It works in part by binding to DNA and inhibiting its replication. Cisplatin was first reported in 1845 and licensed for medical **use** in 1978 and 1979. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Cisplatin is administered intravenously as short-term infusion in normal saline for treatment of solid and haem...
1236. ...he introduction of cisplatin as a standard treatment for testicular cancer improved remission rates from 5-10% before 1974 to 75-85% by 1984. Cisplatin has a number of side effects that can limit its **use**: Cisplatin interferes with DNA replication, which kills the fastest proliferating cells, which in theory are cancerous. Following administration, one chloride ion is slowly displaced by water to give...
1237. ...gressing the mass of sarcomas in rats. Confirmation of this discovery, and extension of testing to other tumour cell lines launched the medicinal applications of cisplatin. Cisplatin was approved for **use** in testicular and ovarian cancers by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on 19 December 1978. and in the UK (and in several other European countries) in 1979.  Cisplatin was the first to be develop...
1238. ..., up to around 85%. The Packer Protocol has since become a standard treatment for medulloblastoma. Likewise, cisplatin has been found to be particularly effective against testicular cancer, where its **use** improved the cure rate from 10% to 85%. Syntheses of cisplatin start from potassium tetrachloroplatinate. Several procedures are available. One obstacle is the facile formation of Magnus's green salt...
1239. ...for this application.  The ability of thiosulfate to dissolve silver ions is related to its ability to dissolve gold ions. It is used to dechlorinate tap water including lowering chlorine levels for **use** in aquariums, swimming pools, and spas (e.g., following superchlorination) and within water treatment plants to treat settled backwash water prior to release into rivers. The reduction reaction is an...
1240. ...Due to the quantitative nature of this reaction, as well as because has an excellent shelf-life, it is used as a titrant in iodometry. is also a component of iodine clock experiments. This particular **use** can be set up to measure the oxygen content of water through a long series of reactions in the Winkler test for dissolved oxygen. It is also used in estimating volumetrically the concentrations of ce...
1241. ...s were dispersed after his death. He was also a keen archaeologist, in particular digging for many years at Jebel Moya, Sudan, hiring 4000 people to excavate. He was one of the first investigators to **use** kite aerial photography on an archaeological site, with surviving images available in the Wellcome Library. Wellcome's collection is now managed by the Science Museum, London, and has been in their c...
1242. ...ority) of the European Union (EU) and its main responsibility is the protection and promotion of public and animal health, through the evaluation and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary **use**. More specifically, it coordinates the evaluation and monitoring of centrally authorised products and national referrals, develops technical guidance and provides scientific advice to sponsors. Its s...
1243. ...of centrally authorised products and national referrals, develops technical guidance and provides scientific advice to sponsors. Its scope of operations is medicinal products for human and veterinary **use** including biologics and advanced therapies, and herbal medicinal products. The agency is composed of the Secretariat (ca. 600 staff), a management board, seven scientific committees (human, veterinar...
1244. ...Joint Coordination Group. It is also a benefactor of Health Level Seven International, a member of the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** and the International Pharmaceutical Regulators Programme (IPRP), and a partner of the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer and Vaccine Confidence Project. A single evaluation is carried out through t...
1245. ...rs Programme (IPRP), and a partner of the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer and Vaccine Confidence Project. A single evaluation is carried out through the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human **Use** (CHMP). If the Committee concludes that the quality, safety and efficacy of the medicinal product is sufficiently proven, it adopts a positive opinion. This is sent to the European Commission to be t...
1246. ...ven, it adopts a positive opinion. This is sent to the European Commission to be transformed into a marketing authorisation valid for the whole of the EU. A special type of approval is the paediatric-**use** marketing authorisation (PUMA), which can be granted for medical products intended exclusively for paediatric use. The CHMP is obliged by the regulation to reach decisions within 210 days, though the...
1247. ...orisation valid for the whole of the EU. A special type of approval is the paediatric-use marketing authorisation (PUMA), which can be granted for medical products intended exclusively for paediatric **use**. The CHMP is obliged by the regulation to reach decisions within 210 days, though the clock is stopped if it is necessary to ask the applicant for clarification or further supporting data. The review...
1248. ...ging opinions are not reported suggesting that all the "experts" are of the same opinion. In her view the process is unscientific and undemocratic. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary **Use** (CVMP) operates in analogy to the CHMP as described above. The Committee on Orphan Medicinal Products (COMP) administers the granting of orphan drug status since 2000. Companies intending to develop...
1249. ...ell as for human medicines for the treatment of HIV/AIDS, cancer, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases, auto-immune and other immune dysfunctions, and viral diseases, and for veterinary medicines for **use** for growth or yield enhancers. It is also compulsory for advanced-therapy medicines such as gene-therapy, somatic cell-therapy or tissue-engineered medicines and for orphan medicines (for rare diseas...
1250. ...etry is potentially useful for networks of interconnects. These electrodes were developed to offer a high-throughput yet low-cost alternative to conventional electrode structures for DEP. Rather than **use** photolithographic methods or other microengineering approaches, DEP-well electrodes are constructed from stacking successive conductive and insulating layers in a laminate, after which multiple "well...
1251. ...ch can be analysed simultaneously, and the simplicity of cell motion reduced to one dimension (where cells can only move radially towards or away from the centre of the well). Devices manufactured to **use** the DEP-well principle are marketed under the DEPtech brand. The utilization of the difference between dielectrophoretic forces exerted on different particles in nonuniform electric fields is known a...
1252. ...icles that move further away from the wall reach higher positions in the parabolic velocity profile of the liquid flowing through the chamber and will be eluted from the chamber at a faster rate. The **use** of photoconductive materials (for example, in lab-on-chip devices) allows for localized inducement of dielectrophoretic forces through the application of light. In addition, one can project an image...
1253. ...ham Cooke and Michael Whitehouse. On 2 December 2020, the MHRA became the first global medicines regulator to approve an RNA vaccine when it gave conditional and temporary authorization to supply for **use** of the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine codenamed BNT162b2 (later branded as Comirnaty). This approval enabled the start of the UK's COVID-19 vaccination programme. The regulator's public assessment...
1254. ...t COVID-19 booster vaccines. In January 2021, the MHRA expressed concern to the UK government over plans to deploy lateral flow tests in schools in England, stating that they had not authorised daily **use** of the tests due to concerns that negative results may give false reassurance. The government suspended the scheme the following week, citing risks arising from high prevalence of the virus and highe...
1255. ...dverse reactions to its current drugs of interest, and serious adverse reactions to any drug. ADRAC publishes the Australian Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin every two months. The Government's Quality **Use** of Medicines program is tasked with acting on this reporting to reduce and minimize the number of preventable adverse effects each year. Adverse reaction reporting is an important component of New Ze...
1256. ...e intestinal wall. Adverse effects can occur as a collateral or side effect of many interventions, but they are particularly important in pharmacology, due to its wider, and sometimes uncontrollable, **use** by way of self-medication. Thus, responsible drug use becomes an important issue here. Adverse effects, like therapeutic effects of drugs, are a function of dosage or drug levels at the target organs...
1257. ...ateral or side effect of many interventions, but they are particularly important in pharmacology, due to its wider, and sometimes uncontrollable, use by way of self-medication. Thus, responsible drug **use** becomes an important issue here. Adverse effects, like therapeutic effects of drugs, are a function of dosage or drug levels at the target organs, so they may be avoided or decreased by means of care...
1258. ...ted by feeding gas into a polymer matrix, it had an open-cell solid structure that matched pressure against it, yet slowly returned to its original shape. Later commercialisation of the foam included **use** in medical equipment such as X-ray table pads, and sports equipment such as American / Canadian football helmet liners. When NASA released memory foam to the public domain in the early 1980s, Fagerda...
1259. ...causing pressure sores or gangrene. Memory foam mattresses significantly decreased such events, as well as alternating pressure air mattresses. Memory foam was initially too expensive for widespread **use**, but became cheaper. Its most common domestic uses are mattresses, pillows, shoes, and blankets. It has medical uses, such as wheelchair seat cushions, hospital bed pillows and padding for people suf...
1260. ...e amount used. At high doses, mental effects can include anxiety, delusions (including ideas of reference), hallucinations, panic, paranoia, and psychosis. There is a strong relation between cannabis **use** and the risk of psychosis, though the direction of causality is debated. Physical effects include increased heart rate, difficulty breathing, nausea, and behavioral problems in children whose mothers...
1261. ...used cannabis during pregnancy; short-term side effects may also include dry mouth and red eyes. Long-term adverse effects may include addiction, decreased mental ability in those who started regular **use** as adolescents, chronic coughing, susceptibility to respiratory infections, and cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome. Cannabis is mostly used recreationally or as a medicinal drug, although it may also b...
1262. ...etween 128 and 232 million people used cannabis (2.7% to 4.9% of the global population between the ages of 15 and 65). It is the most commonly used largely-illegal drug in the world, with the highest **use** among adults in Zambia, the United States, Canada, and Nigeria. Since the 1970s, the potency of illicit cannabis has increased, with THC levels rising and CBD levels dropping. Cannabis plants have be...
1263. ...evidence of it being smoked for its psychoactive effects around 500 BCE in the Pamir Mountains, Central Asia. Since the 14th century, cannabis has been subject to legal restrictions. The possession, **use**, and cultivation of cannabis has been illegal in most countries since the 20th century. In 2013, Uruguay became the first country to legalize recreational use of cannabis. Other countries to do so ar...
1264. ...t to legal restrictions. The possession, use, and cultivation of cannabis has been illegal in most countries since the 20th century. In 2013, Uruguay became the first country to legalize recreational **use** of cannabis. Other countries to do so are Canada, Georgia, Germany, Luxembourg, Malta, South Africa, and Thailand. In the U.S., the recreational use of cannabis is legalized in 24 states, 3 territori...
1265. ...became the first country to legalize recreational use of cannabis. Other countries to do so are Canada, Georgia, Germany, Luxembourg, Malta, South Africa, and Thailand. In the U.S., the recreational **use** of cannabis is legalized in 24 states, 3 territories, and the District of Columbia, though the drug remains federally illegal. In Australia, it is legalized only in the Australian Capital Territory....
1266. ...strict of Columbia, though the drug remains federally illegal. In Australia, it is legalized only in the Australian Capital Territory. "Cannabis" is a Scythian word. The ancient Greeks learned of the **use** of cannabis by observing Scythian funerals, during which cannabis was consumed. In Akkadian, cannabis was known as "qunubu" (). The word was adopted in to the Hebrew as "qaneh bosem" (). Medical cann...
1267. ...s, during which cannabis was consumed. In Akkadian, cannabis was known as "qunubu" (). The word was adopted in to the Hebrew as "qaneh bosem" (). Medical cannabis, or medical marijuana, refers to the **use** of cannabis to treat disease or improve symptoms; however, there is no single agreed-upon definition (e.g., cannabinoids derived from cannabis and synthetic cannabinoids are also used). The rigorous...
1268. ...e evidence suggesting cannabis can be used to reduce nausea and vomiting during chemotherapy, to improve appetite in people with HIV/AIDS, or to treat chronic pain and muscle spasms. Evidence for its **use** for other medical applications is insufficient for drawing conclusions about safety or efficacy. There is evidence supporting the use of cannabis or its derivatives in the treatment of chemotherapy-i...
1269. ...IDS, or to treat chronic pain and muscle spasms. Evidence for its use for other medical applications is insufficient for drawing conclusions about safety or efficacy. There is evidence supporting the **use** of cannabis or its derivatives in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, neuropathic pain, and multiple sclerosis. Lower levels of evidence support its use for AIDS wasting syndro...
1270. ...evidence supporting the use of cannabis or its derivatives in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, neuropathic pain, and multiple sclerosis. Lower levels of evidence support its **use** for AIDS wasting syndrome, epilepsy, rheumatoid arthritis, and glaucoma. The medical use of cannabis is legal only in a limited number of territories, including Canada, Belgium, Australia, the Nether...
1271. ...py-induced nausea and vomiting, neuropathic pain, and multiple sclerosis. Lower levels of evidence support its use for AIDS wasting syndrome, epilepsy, rheumatoid arthritis, and glaucoma. The medical **use** of cannabis is legal only in a limited number of territories, including Canada, Belgium, Australia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, and many U.S. states. This usage generally requires a prescrip...
1272. ...me from the Atharva Veda, estimated to have been composed sometime around 1400 BCE. The Hindu god Shiva is described as a cannabis user, known as the "Lord of bhang". In modern culture, the spiritual **use** of cannabis has been spread by the disciples of the Rastafari movement who use cannabis as a sacrament and as an aid to meditation. Many different ways to consume cannabis involve heat to decarboxyla...
1273. ...BCE. The Hindu god Shiva is described as a cannabis user, known as the "Lord of bhang". In modern culture, the spiritual use of cannabis has been spread by the disciples of the Rastafari movement who **use** cannabis as a sacrament and as an aid to meditation. Many different ways to consume cannabis involve heat to decarboxylate THCA into THC; common modes include: In 2013, between 128 and 232 million pe...
1274. ...13, between 128 and 232 million people used cannabis (2.7% to 4.9% of the global population between the ages of 15 and 65). Cannabis is by far the most widely used illicit substance, with the highest **use** among adults () in Zambia, the United States, Canada, and Nigeria. Between 1973 and 1978, eleven states decriminalized marijuana. In 2001, Nevada reduced marijuana possession to a misdemeanor and sin...
1275. ...rveys indicated that almost half of the people in the United States had tried marijuana, 16% had used it in the past year, and 11% had used it in the past month. In 2014, surveys said daily marijuana **use** amongst US college students had reached its highest level since records began in 1980, rising from 3.5% in 2007 to 5.9% in 2014 and had surpassed daily cigarette use. In the US, men are over twice as...
1276. ...014, surveys said daily marijuana use amongst US college students had reached its highest level since records began in 1980, rising from 3.5% in 2007 to 5.9% in 2014 and had surpassed daily cigarette **use**. In the US, men are over twice as likely to use marijuana as women, and 1829-year-olds are six times more likely to use as over-65-year-olds. In 2015, a record 44% of the US population has tried mari...
1277. ...college students had reached its highest level since records began in 1980, rising from 3.5% in 2007 to 5.9% in 2014 and had surpassed daily cigarette use. In the US, men are over twice as likely to **use** marijuana as women, and 1829-year-olds are six times more likely to use as over-65-year-olds. In 2015, a record 44% of the US population has tried marijuana in their lifetime, an increase from 38% in...
1278. ...980, rising from 3.5% in 2007 to 5.9% in 2014 and had surpassed daily cigarette use. In the US, men are over twice as likely to use marijuana as women, and 1829-year-olds are six times more likely to **use** as over-65-year-olds. In 2015, a record 44% of the US population has tried marijuana in their lifetime, an increase from 38% in 2013 and 33% in 1985. Marijuana use in the United States is three times...
1279. ...r-olds are six times more likely to use as over-65-year-olds. In 2015, a record 44% of the US population has tried marijuana in their lifetime, an increase from 38% in 2013 and 33% in 1985. Marijuana **use** in the United States is three times above the global average, but in line with other Western democracies. Forty-four percent of American 12th graders have tried the drug at least once, and the typica...
1280. ...States is three times above the global average, but in line with other Western democracies. Forty-four percent of American 12th graders have tried the drug at least once, and the typical age of first-**use** is 16, similar to the typical age of first-use for alcohol but lower than the first-use age for other illicit drugs. A 2022 Gallup poll concluded Americans are smoking more marijuana than cigarettes...
1281. ...but in line with other Western democracies. Forty-four percent of American 12th graders have tried the drug at least once, and the typical age of first-use is 16, similar to the typical age of first-**use** for alcohol but lower than the first-use age for other illicit drugs. A 2022 Gallup poll concluded Americans are smoking more marijuana than cigarettes for the first time. Acute negative effects may...
1282. ...es. Forty-four percent of American 12th graders have tried the drug at least once, and the typical age of first-use is 16, similar to the typical age of first-use for alcohol but lower than the first-**use** age for other illicit drugs. A 2022 Gallup poll concluded Americans are smoking more marijuana than cigarettes for the first time. Acute negative effects may include anxiety and panic, impaired atten...
1283. ...s not known, they are at risk for encephalopathy, hypotension, respiratory depression severe enough to require ventilation, somnolence and coma. There is no clear evidence for a link between cannabis **use** and deaths from cardiovascular disease, but a 2019 review noted that it may be an under-reported, contributory factor or direct cause in cases of sudden death, due to the strain it can place on the c...
1284. ...cases of sudden death, due to the strain it can place on the cardiovascular system. Some deaths have also been attributed to cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome. There is an association between cannabis **use** and suicide, particularly in younger users. A 16-month survey of Oregon and Alaska emergency departments found a report of the death of an adult who had been admitted for acute cannabis toxicity. A 2...
1285. ...ith smaller magnitudes of impairment, both retrospective and prospective memory were impaired in cannabis users. The authors concluded that some, but not all, of the deficits associated with cannabis **use** were reversible. A 2012 meta-analysis found that deficits in most domains of cognition persisted beyond the acute period of intoxication, but was not evident in studies where subjects were abstinent...
1286. ...e results were generally inconsistent. Furthermore, effect sizes of significant findings were generally small. One review concluded that, although most cognitive faculties were unimpaired by cannabis **use**, residual deficits occurred in executive functions. Impairments in executive functioning are most consistently found in older populations, which may reflect heavier cannabis exposure, or developmenta...
1287. ...tions. Impairments in executive functioning are most consistently found in older populations, which may reflect heavier cannabis exposure, or developmental effects associated with adolescent cannabis **use**. One review found three prospective cohort studies that examined the relationship between self-reported cannabis use and intelligence quotient (IQ). The study following the largest number of heavy ca...
1288. ...er cannabis exposure, or developmental effects associated with adolescent cannabis use. One review found three prospective cohort studies that examined the relationship between self-reported cannabis **use** and intelligence quotient (IQ). The study following the largest number of heavy cannabis users reported that IQ declined between ages 7–13 and age 38. Poorer school performance and increased incidenc...
1289. ...est number of heavy cannabis users reported that IQ declined between ages 7–13 and age 38. Poorer school performance and increased incidence of leaving school early were both associated with cannabis **use**, although a causal relationship was not established. Cannabis users demonstrated increased activity in task-related brain regions, consistent with reduced processing efficiency. A reduced quality of...
1290. ...t established. Cannabis users demonstrated increased activity in task-related brain regions, consistent with reduced processing efficiency. A reduced quality of life is associated with heavy cannabis **use**, although the relationship is inconsistent and weaker than for tobacco and other substances. The direction of cause and effect, however, is unclear. The long-term effects of cannabis are not clear. T...
1291. ...y and cognition problems, risk of addiction, and the risk of schizophrenia in young people. Although global abnormalities in white matter and grey matter are not consistently associated with cannabis **use**, reduced hippocampal volume is consistently found. Amygdala abnormalities are sometimes reported, although findings are inconsistent. Cannabis use is associated with increased recruitment of task-rel...
1292. ...matter are not consistently associated with cannabis use, reduced hippocampal volume is consistently found. Amygdala abnormalities are sometimes reported, although findings are inconsistent. Cannabis **use** is associated with increased recruitment of task-related areas, such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, which is thought to reflect compensatory activity due to reduced processing efficiency. Can...
1293. ...sociated with increased recruitment of task-related areas, such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, which is thought to reflect compensatory activity due to reduced processing efficiency. Cannabis **use** is also associated with downregulation of CB receptors. The magnitude of down regulation is associated with cumulative cannabis exposure, and is reversed after one month of abstinence. There is limit...
1294. ...ation of CB receptors. The magnitude of down regulation is associated with cumulative cannabis exposure, and is reversed after one month of abstinence. There is limited evidence that chronic cannabis **use** can reduce levels of glutamate metabolites in the human brain. About 9% of those who experiment with marijuana eventually become dependent according to DSM-IV (1994) criteria. A 2013 review estimates...
1295. ...duce levels of glutamate metabolites in the human brain. About 9% of those who experiment with marijuana eventually become dependent according to DSM-IV (1994) criteria. A 2013 review estimates daily **use** is associated with a 10–20% rate of dependence. The highest risk of cannabis dependence is found in those with a history of poor academic achievement, deviant behavior in childhood and adolescence, r...
1296. ...havior in childhood and adolescence, rebelliousness, poor parental relationships, or a parental history of drug and alcohol problems. Of daily users, about 50% experience withdrawal upon cessation of **use** (i.e. are dependent), characterized by sleep problems, irritability, dysphoria, and craving. Cannabis withdrawal is less severe than withdrawal from alcohol. According to DSM-V criteria, 9% of those...
1297. ...problems, irritability, dysphoria, and craving. Cannabis withdrawal is less severe than withdrawal from alcohol. According to DSM-V criteria, 9% of those who are exposed to cannabis develop cannabis **use** disorder, compared to 20% for cocaine, 23% for alcohol and 68% for nicotine. Cannabis use disorder in the DSM-V involves a combination of DSM-IV criteria for cannabis abuse and dependence, plus the a...
1298. ...ithdrawal from alcohol. According to DSM-V criteria, 9% of those who are exposed to cannabis develop cannabis use disorder, compared to 20% for cocaine, 23% for alcohol and 68% for nicotine. Cannabis **use** disorder in the DSM-V involves a combination of DSM-IV criteria for cannabis abuse and dependence, plus the addition of craving, without the criterion related to legal troubles. From a clinical persp...
1299. ...f craving, without the criterion related to legal troubles. From a clinical perspective, two significant school of thought exists for psychiatric conditions associated with cannabis (or cannabinoids) **use**: transient, non-persistent psychotic reactions, and longer-lasting, persistent disorders that resemble schizophrenia. The former is formally known as acute cannabis-associated psychotic symptoms (CAP...
1300. ...rs that resemble schizophrenia. The former is formally known as acute cannabis-associated psychotic symptoms (CAPS).  At an epidemiological level, a dose–response relationship exists between cannabis **use** and increased risk of psychosis and earlier onset of psychosis. Although the epidemiological association is robust, evidence to prove a causal relationship is lacking. Cannabis may also increase the...
1301. ...sociation is robust, evidence to prove a causal relationship is lacking. Cannabis may also increase the risk of depression, but insufficient research has been performed to draw a conclusion. Cannabis **use** is associated with increased risk of anxiety disorders, although causality has not been established. A review in 2019 found that research was insufficient to determine the safety and efficacy of usin...
1302. ...l and social health consequences. It may be "associated with diseases of the liver (particularly with co-existing hepatitis C), lungs, heart, and vasculature". A 2014 review found that while cannabis **use** may be less harmful than alcohol use, the recommendation to substitute it for problematic drinking was premature without further study. Various surveys conducted between 2015 and 2019 found that many...
1303. ...may be "associated with diseases of the liver (particularly with co-existing hepatitis C), lungs, heart, and vasculature". A 2014 review found that while cannabis use may be less harmful than alcohol **use**, the recommendation to substitute it for problematic drinking was premature without further study. Various surveys conducted between 2015 and 2019 found that many users of cannabis substitute it for...
1304. ...ociated with respiratory infections, coughing, production of sputum, wheezing, and other symptoms of chronic bronchitis. The available evidence does not support a causal relationship between cannabis **use** and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Short-term use of cannabis is associated with bronchodilation. Other side effects of cannabis use include cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome (CHS), a conditio...
1305. ...of sputum, wheezing, and other symptoms of chronic bronchitis. The available evidence does not support a causal relationship between cannabis use and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Short-term **use** of cannabis is associated with bronchodilation. Other side effects of cannabis use include cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome (CHS), a condition which involves recurrent nausea, cramping abdominal pain...
1306. ...ce does not support a causal relationship between cannabis use and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Short-term use of cannabis is associated with bronchodilation. Other side effects of cannabis **use** include cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome (CHS), a condition which involves recurrent nausea, cramping abdominal pain, and vomiting. Cannabis smoke contains thousands of organic and inorganic chemical...
1307. ...[a]pyrene. Cannabis smoke is also inhaled more deeply than tobacco smoke. , there is no consensus regarding whether cannabis smoking is associated with an increased risk of cancer. Light and moderate **use** of cannabis is not believed to increase risk of lung or upper airway cancer. Evidence for causing these cancers is mixed concerning heavy, long-term use. In general there are far lower risks of pulmo...
1308. ...n increased risk of cancer. Light and moderate use of cannabis is not believed to increase risk of lung or upper airway cancer. Evidence for causing these cancers is mixed concerning heavy, long-term **use**. In general there are far lower risks of pulmonary complications for regular cannabis smokers when compared with those of tobacco. A 2015 review found an association between cannabis use and the deve...
1309. ...y, long-term use. In general there are far lower risks of pulmonary complications for regular cannabis smokers when compared with those of tobacco. A 2015 review found an association between cannabis **use** and the development of testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs), particularly non-seminoma TGCTs. Another 2015 meta-analysis found no association between lifetime cannabis use and risk of head or neck can...
1310. ...association between cannabis use and the development of testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs), particularly non-seminoma TGCTs. Another 2015 meta-analysis found no association between lifetime cannabis **use** and risk of head or neck cancer. Combustion products are not present when using a vaporizer, consuming THC in pill form, or consuming cannabis foods. There is concern that cannabis may contribute to...
1311. ...blood clots. , the mechanisms for the anti-inflammatory and possible pain relieving effects of cannabis were not defined, and there were no governmental regulatory approvals or clinical practices for **use** of cannabis as a drug. Emergency room (ER) admissions associated with cannabis use rose significantly from 2012 to 2016; adolescents from age 12–17 had the highest risk. At one Colorado medical cente...
1312. ...effects of cannabis were not defined, and there were no governmental regulatory approvals or clinical practices for use of cannabis as a drug. Emergency room (ER) admissions associated with cannabis **use** rose significantly from 2012 to 2016; adolescents from age 12–17 had the highest risk. At one Colorado medical center following legalization, approximately two percent of ER admissions were classifie...
1313. ...intestinal issues including cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome. According to the United States Department of Health and Human Services, there were 455,000 emergency room visits associated with cannabis **use** in 2011. These statistics include visits in which the patient was treated for a condition induced by or related to recent cannabis use. The drug use must be "implicated" in the emergency department v...
1314. ...here were 455,000 emergency room visits associated with cannabis use in 2011. These statistics include visits in which the patient was treated for a condition induced by or related to recent cannabis **use**. The drug use must be "implicated" in the emergency department visit, but does not need to be the direct cause of the visit. Most of the illicit drug emergency room visits involved multiple drugs. In...
1315. ...000 emergency room visits associated with cannabis use in 2011. These statistics include visits in which the patient was treated for a condition induced by or related to recent cannabis use. The drug **use** must be "implicated" in the emergency department visit, but does not need to be the direct cause of the visit. Most of the illicit drug emergency room visits involved multiple drugs. In 129,000 cases...
1316. ...nnabinoids, such as cannabidiol (CBD). THC and its major (inactive) metabolite, THC-COOH, can be measured in blood, urine, hair, oral fluid or sweat using chromatographic techniques as part of a drug **use** testing program or a forensic investigation of a traffic or other criminal offense. The concentrations obtained from such analyses can often be helpful in distinguishing active use from passive expos...
1317. ...as part of a drug use testing program or a forensic investigation of a traffic or other criminal offense. The concentrations obtained from such analyses can often be helpful in distinguishing active **use** from passive exposure, elapsed time since use, and extent or duration of use. These tests cannot, however, distinguish authorized cannabis smoking for medical purposes from unauthorized recreational...
1318. ...rensic investigation of a traffic or other criminal offense. The concentrations obtained from such analyses can often be helpful in distinguishing active use from passive exposure, elapsed time since **use**, and extent or duration of use. These tests cannot, however, distinguish authorized cannabis smoking for medical purposes from unauthorized recreational smoking. Commercial cannabinoid immunoassays,...
1319. ...ic or other criminal offense. The concentrations obtained from such analyses can often be helpful in distinguishing active use from passive exposure, elapsed time since use, and extent or duration of **use**. These tests cannot, however, distinguish authorized cannabis smoking for medical purposes from unauthorized recreational smoking. Commercial cannabinoid immunoassays, often employed as the initial s...
1320. ...laimed that sativa strains provide a more stimulating psychoactive high while indica strains are more sedating with a body high. However, this is disputed by researchers. A 2015 review found that the **use** of high CBD-to-THC strains of cannabis showed significantly fewer positive symptoms, such as delusions and hallucinations, better cognitive function and both lower risk for developing psychosis, as w...
1321. ...cians and Dacians, whose shamans (the "kapnobatai""those who walk on smoke/clouds") burned cannabis infructescences to induce trance. The plant was used in China before 2800 BC, and found therapeutic **use** in India by 1000 BC, where it was used in food and drink, including "bhang". Cannabis has an ancient history of ritual use and has been used by religions around the world. It has been used as a drug...
1322. ...ce trance. The plant was used in China before 2800 BC, and found therapeutic use in India by 1000 BC, where it was used in food and drink, including "bhang". Cannabis has an ancient history of ritual **use** and has been used by religions around the world. It has been used as a drug for both recreational and entheogenic purposes and in various traditional medicines for centuries. The earliest evidence of...
1323. ...o the New World by the Spaniards in 1530–1545. Following an 1836–1840 travel in North Africa and the Middle East, French physician Jacques-Joseph Moreau wrote on the psychological effects of cannabis **use**; he founded the Paris' Club des Hashischins in 1844. In 1842, Irish physician William Brooke O'Shaughnessy, who had studied the drug while working as a medical officer in Bengal with the East India C...
1324. ...nited States, the first restrictions on sale of cannabis came in 1906 (in the District of Columbia). Canada criminalized cannabis in "The Opium and Narcotic Drug Act, 1923", before any reports of the **use** of the drug in Canada, but eventually legalized its consumption for recreational and medicinal purposes in 2018. In 1925, a compromise was made at an international conference in The Hague about the I...
1325. ...2018. In 1925, a compromise was made at an international conference in The Hague about the International Opium Convention that banned exportation of "Indian hemp" to countries that had prohibited its **use**, and requiring importing countries to issue certificates approving the importation and stating that the shipment was required "exclusively for medical or scientific purposes". It also required partie...
1326. ...ded drugs into more- and less-dangerous categories, with cannabis being in the lesser category. Accordingly, possession of or less was made a misdemeanor. Cannabis has been available for recreational **use** in coffee shops since 1976. Cannabis products are only sold openly in certain local "coffeeshops" and possession of up to for personal use is decriminalized, however: the police may still confiscate...
1327. ...a misdemeanor. Cannabis has been available for recreational use in coffee shops since 1976. Cannabis products are only sold openly in certain local "coffeeshops" and possession of up to for personal **use** is decriminalized, however: the police may still confiscate it, which often happens in car checks near the border. Other types of sales and transportation are not permitted, although the general appr...
1328. ...ust 2014, Uruguay legalized growing up to six plants at home, as well as the formation of growing clubs (Cannabis social club), and a state-controlled marijuana dispensary regime. , when recreational **use** of cannabis was legalized in Canada, dietary supplements for human use and veterinary health products containing not more than 10 parts per million of THC extract were approved for marketing; Nabixim...
1329. ...s the formation of growing clubs (Cannabis social club), and a state-controlled marijuana dispensary regime. , when recreational use of cannabis was legalized in Canada, dietary supplements for human **use** and veterinary health products containing not more than 10 parts per million of THC extract were approved for marketing; Nabiximols (as Sativex) is used as a prescription drug in Canada. The United N...
1330. ...rs globally in 2015. Cannabis has been one of the most used psychoactive drugs in the world since the late 20th century, following only tobacco and alcohol in popularity. According to Vera Rubin, the **use** of cannabis has been encompassed by two major cultural complexes over time: a continuous, traditional folk stream, and a more circumscribed, contemporary configuration. The former involves both sacre...
1331. ...as been encompassed by two major cultural complexes over time: a continuous, traditional folk stream, and a more circumscribed, contemporary configuration. The former involves both sacred and secular **use**, and is usually based on small-scale cultivation: the use of the plant for cordage, clothing, medicine, food, and a "general use as an euphoriant and symbol of fellowship." The second stream of expan...
1332. ...ime: a continuous, traditional folk stream, and a more circumscribed, contemporary configuration. The former involves both sacred and secular use, and is usually based on small-scale cultivation: the **use** of the plant for cordage, clothing, medicine, food, and a "general use as an euphoriant and symbol of fellowship." The second stream of expansion of cannabis use encompasses "the use of hemp for comm...
1333. ...ontemporary configuration. The former involves both sacred and secular use, and is usually based on small-scale cultivation: the use of the plant for cordage, clothing, medicine, food, and a "general **use** as an euphoriant and symbol of fellowship." The second stream of expansion of cannabis use encompasses "the use of hemp for commercial manufacturers utilizing large-scale cultivation primarily as a f...
1334. ...based on small-scale cultivation: the use of the plant for cordage, clothing, medicine, food, and a "general use as an euphoriant and symbol of fellowship." The second stream of expansion of cannabis **use** encompasses "the use of hemp for commercial manufacturers utilizing large-scale cultivation primarily as a fiber for mercantile purposes"; but it is also linked to the search for psychedelic experien...
1335. ...cultivation: the use of the plant for cordage, clothing, medicine, food, and a "general use as an euphoriant and symbol of fellowship." The second stream of expansion of cannabis use encompasses "the **use** of hemp for commercial manufacturers utilizing large-scale cultivation primarily as a fiber for mercantile purposes"; but it is also linked to the search for psychedelic experiences (which can be tra...
1336. ...tities of cannabis so that it is punished by confiscation and sometimes a fine, rather than imprisonment, focusing more on those who traffic the drug on the black market. In some areas where cannabis **use** had been historically tolerated, new restrictions were instituted, such as the closing of cannabis coffee shops near the borders of the Netherlands, and closing of coffee shops near secondary schools...
1337. ...ops near secondary schools in the Netherlands. In Copenhagen, Denmark in 2014, mayor Frank Jensen discussed possibilities for the city to legalize cannabis production and commerce. Some jurisdictions **use** free voluntary or mandatory treatment programs for frequent known users. Simple possession can carry long prison terms in some countries, particularly in East Asia, where the sale of cannabis may lea...
1338. ...llowed for the first time in Colorado. The California Supreme Court decided in May 2013 that local governments can ban medical cannabis dispensaries despite a state law in California that permits the **use** of cannabis for medical purposes. At least 180 cities across California have enacted bans in recent years.  On 30 April 2024, the United States Department of Justice announced it would move to reclas...
1339. ...nt of Justice announced it would move to reclassify cannabis from a Schedule I to a Schedule III controlled substance. In December 2013, Uruguay became the first country to legalize growing, sale and **use** of cannabis. After a long delay in implementing the retail component of the law, in 2017 sixteen pharmacies were authorized to sell cannabis commercially. On 19 June 2018, the Canadian Senate passed...
1340. ...Sussan Ley presented a new law that will allow the cultivation of cannabis for scientific research and medical trials on patients. On 17 October 2018, Canada legalized cannabis for recreational adult **use** making it the second country in the world to do so after Uruguay and the first G7 nation. This legalization comes with regulation similar to that of alcohol in Canada, age restrictions, limiting home...
1341. ...first G7 nation. This legalization comes with regulation similar to that of alcohol in Canada, age restrictions, limiting home production, distribution, consumption areas and sale times. Laws around **use** vary from province to province including age limits, retail structure, and growing at home. The Canadian Licensed Producer system aims to become the Gold Standard in the world for safe and secure can...
1342. ...as also been legalized or decriminalized in: Czech Republic, Colombia, Ecuador, Portugal, South Africa and Canada. Medical marijuana was legalized in Mexico in mid-2017 and legalized for recreational **use** in June 2021. Germany legalized cannabis for recreational use in April 2024. As of 2022, Uruguay and Canada are the only countries that have fully legalized the cultivation, consumption and bartering...
1343. ...olombia, Ecuador, Portugal, South Africa and Canada. Medical marijuana was legalized in Mexico in mid-2017 and legalized for recreational use in June 2021. Germany legalized cannabis for recreational **use** in April 2024. As of 2022, Uruguay and Canada are the only countries that have fully legalized the cultivation, consumption and bartering of recreational cannabis nationwide. In the United States, 24...
1344. ...legalized the cultivation, consumption and bartering of recreational cannabis nationwide. In the United States, 24 states, 3 territories, and the District of Columbia have legalized the recreational **use** of cannabis – though the drug remains illegal at the federal level. Laws vary from state to state when it comes to the commercial sale. Court rulings in Georgia and South Africa have led to the legal...
1345. ...stablishments. Contrary to popular belief, cannabis is not legal in the Netherlands, but it has been decriminalized since the 1970s. In 2021, Malta was the first European Union member to legalize the **use** of cannabis for recreational purposes. In Estonia, it is only legal to sell cannabis products with a THC content of less than 0.2%, although products may contain more cannabidiol. Lebanon has recentl...
1346. ...is products with a THC content of less than 0.2%, although products may contain more cannabidiol. Lebanon has recently become the first Arab country to legalize the plantation of cannabis for medical **use**. Penalties for illegal recreational use ranges from confiscation or small fines to jail time and even death. In some countries citizens can be punished if they have used the drug in another country,...
1347. ...han 0.2%, although products may contain more cannabidiol. Lebanon has recently become the first Arab country to legalize the plantation of cannabis for medical use. Penalties for illegal recreational **use** ranges from confiscation or small fines to jail time and even death. In some countries citizens can be punished if they have used the drug in another country, including Singapore and South Korea.  (S...
1348. ...cal retail prices in Europe for cannabis varied from €2 to €20 per gram in 2008, with a majority of European countries reporting prices in the range €4–10. The gateway hypothesis states that cannabis **use** increases the probability of trying "harder" drugs. The hypothesis has been hotly debated as it is regarded by some as the primary rationale for the United States prohibition on cannabis use. A Pew R...
1349. ...cannabis use increases the probability of trying "harder" drugs. The hypothesis has been hotly debated as it is regarded by some as the primary rationale for the United States prohibition on cannabis **use**. A Pew Research Center poll found that political opposition to marijuana use was significantly associated with concerns about the health effects and whether legalization would increase cannabis use b...
1350. ...is has been hotly debated as it is regarded by some as the primary rationale for the United States prohibition on cannabis use. A Pew Research Center poll found that political opposition to marijuana **use** was significantly associated with concerns about the health effects and whether legalization would increase cannabis use by children. Some studies state that while there is no proof for the gateway h...
1351. ...s use. A Pew Research Center poll found that political opposition to marijuana use was significantly associated with concerns about the health effects and whether legalization would increase cannabis **use** by children. Some studies state that while there is no proof for the gateway hypothesis, young cannabis users should still be considered as a risk group for intervention programs. Other findings indi...
1352. ...abis users should still be considered as a risk group for intervention programs. Other findings indicate that hard drug users are likely to be poly-drug users, and that interventions must address the **use** of multiple drugs instead of a single hard drug. Almost two-thirds of the poly drug users in the 2009–2010 Scottish Crime and Justice Survey used cannabis. The gateway effect may appear due to social...
1353. ...Abuse released a study backing allegations that marijuana is a gateway to harder drugs, though not for the majority of marijuana users. The National Institute on Drug Abuse determined that marijuana **use** is "likely to precede use of other licit and illicit substances" and that "adults who reported marijuana use during the first wave of the survey were more likely than adults who did not use marijuana...
1354. ...cking allegations that marijuana is a gateway to harder drugs, though not for the majority of marijuana users. The National Institute on Drug Abuse determined that marijuana use is "likely to precede **use** of other licit and illicit substances" and that "adults who reported marijuana use during the first wave of the survey were more likely than adults who did not use marijuana to develop an alcohol use...
1355. ...ajority of marijuana users. The National Institute on Drug Abuse determined that marijuana use is "likely to precede use of other licit and illicit substances" and that "adults who reported marijuana **use** during the first wave of the survey were more likely than adults who did not use marijuana to develop an alcohol use disorder within 3 years; people who used marijuana and already had an alcohol use...
1356. ...marijuana use is "likely to precede use of other licit and illicit substances" and that "adults who reported marijuana use during the first wave of the survey were more likely than adults who did not **use** marijuana to develop an alcohol use disorder within 3 years; people who used marijuana and already had an alcohol use disorder at the outset were at greater risk of their alcohol use disorder worseni...
1357. ...use of other licit and illicit substances" and that "adults who reported marijuana use during the first wave of the survey were more likely than adults who did not use marijuana to develop an alcohol **use** disorder within 3 years; people who used marijuana and already had an alcohol use disorder at the outset were at greater risk of their alcohol use disorder worsening. Marijuana use is also linked to...
1358. ...use during the first wave of the survey were more likely than adults who did not use marijuana to develop an alcohol use disorder within 3 years; people who used marijuana and already had an alcohol **use** disorder at the outset were at greater risk of their alcohol use disorder worsening. Marijuana use is also linked to other substance use disorders including nicotine addiction." It also reported that...
1359. ...ults who did not use marijuana to develop an alcohol use disorder within 3 years; people who used marijuana and already had an alcohol use disorder at the outset were at greater risk of their alcohol **use** disorder worsening. Marijuana use is also linked to other substance use disorders including nicotine addiction." It also reported that "These findings are consistent with the idea of marijuana as a "...
1360. ...develop an alcohol use disorder within 3 years; people who used marijuana and already had an alcohol use disorder at the outset were at greater risk of their alcohol use disorder worsening. Marijuana **use** is also linked to other substance use disorders including nicotine addiction." It also reported that "These findings are consistent with the idea of marijuana as a "gateway drug". However, the majori...
1361. ...3 years; people who used marijuana and already had an alcohol use disorder at the outset were at greater risk of their alcohol use disorder worsening. Marijuana use is also linked to other substance **use** disorders including nicotine addiction." It also reported that "These findings are consistent with the idea of marijuana as a "gateway drug". However, the majority of people who use marijuana do not...
1362. ...o other substance use disorders including nicotine addiction." It also reported that "These findings are consistent with the idea of marijuana as a "gateway drug". However, the majority of people who **use** marijuana do not go on to use other, "harder" substances. Also, cross-sensitization is not unique to marijuana. Alcohol and nicotine also prime the brain for a heightened response to other drugs and...
1363. ...s including nicotine addiction." It also reported that "These findings are consistent with the idea of marijuana as a "gateway drug". However, the majority of people who use marijuana do not go on to **use** other, "harder" substances. Also, cross-sensitization is not unique to marijuana. Alcohol and nicotine also prime the brain for a heightened response to other drugs and are, like marijuana, also typi...
1364. ...esis inhibitor. It works by slowing the growth of new blood vessels by inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), in other words anti–VEGF therapy. Bevacizumab was approved for medical **use** in the United States in 2004. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Bevacizumab was approved in the United States in February 2004, for use in metastatic colorectal ca...
1365. ...ab was approved for medical use in the United States in 2004. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Bevacizumab was approved in the United States in February 2004, for **use** in metastatic colorectal cancer when used with standard chemotherapy treatment (as first-line treatment). In June 2006, it was approved with 5-fluorouracil-based therapy for second-line metastatic co...
1366. ...e treatment). In June 2006, it was approved with 5-fluorouracil-based therapy for second-line metastatic colorectal cancer. It was approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in January 2005, for **use** in colorectal cancer. Bevacizumab has also been examined as an add on to other chemotherapy drugs in people with non-metastatic colon cancer. The data from two large randomized studies showed no bene...
1367. ...fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy is indicated for treatment of adults with metastatic carcinoma of the colon or rectum. In 2006, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved bevacizumab for **use** in first-line advanced nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel chemotherapy. The approval was based on the pivotal study E4599 (conducted by the Eastern Coop...
1368. ...ssion-free survival shown in E4599 (Reck, et al. Ann. Oncol. 2010). An overall survival benefit was not demonstrated in patients treated with bevacizumab; however, this may be due to the more limited **use** of bevacizumab as maintenance treatment in AVAiL versus E4599 (this differential effect is also apparent in the European vs US trials of bevacizumab in colorectal cancer: Tyagi and Grothey, Clin Colo...
1369. ...es or anthracyclines is not considered appropriate. In certain kidney cancers, bevacizumab improves the progression free survival time but not survival time. In 2009, the FDA approved bevacizumab for **use** in metastatic renal cell cancer (a form of kidney cancer). following earlier reports of activity EU approval was granted in 2007. In the EU, bevacizumab in combination with interferon alfa-2a is indi...
1370. ...people with glioblastoma. The FDA granted accelerated approval for the treatment of recurrent glioblastoma multiforme in May 2009. A 2018 Cochrane review deemed there to not be good evidence for its **use** in recurrences either. In the EU, bevacizumab gamma (Lytenava) is indicated for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (nAMD). In 2018, the US Food and Drug Administratio...
1371. ...which 17 patients died. About 2/3 of cases involved patients with colorectal cancer, or patients with gastrointestinal perforations or fistulas. These effects are largely avoided in ophthalmological **use** since the drug is introduced directly into the eye thus minimizing any effects on the rest of the body. Neurological adverse events include reversible posterior encephalopathy syndrome. Ischemic and...
1372. ...he hypothesis of Judah Folkman, proposed in 1971, that stopping angiogenesis might be useful in controlling cancer growth. It received its first approval in the United States in 2004, for combination **use** with standard chemotherapy for metastatic colon cancer. It has since been approved for use in certain lung cancers, renal cancers, ovarian cancers, and glioblastoma multiforme of the brain. In 2008,...
1373. ...l in controlling cancer growth. It received its first approval in the United States in 2004, for combination use with standard chemotherapy for metastatic colon cancer. It has since been approved for **use** in certain lung cancers, renal cancers, ovarian cancers, and glioblastoma multiforme of the brain. In 2008, bevacizumab was approved for breast cancer by the FDA, but the approval was revoked on 18 N...
1374. ...h to market a drug for that indication. Doctors may sometimes prescribe it for that indication, although insurance companies are less likely to pay for it. The drug remains approved for breast cancer **use** in other countries, including Australia. It has been funded by the English NHS Cancer Drugs Fund, but in January 2015 it was proposed to remove it from the approved list. It remains on the Cancer Dru...
1375. ...h the European Medicines Agency and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency which had approved Lucentis but not Avastin for wet AMD, and their interest in ensuring that doctors do not **use** medicines off-label when there are other, approved medications for the same indication, and on the other hand, NICE in the UK, which sets treatment guidelines, and has been unable so far to appraise...
1376. ...vernment-funded studies comparing the two drugs were published, they published papers emphasizing the risks of using Avastin for wet AMD. In March 2024, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human **Use** (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Lytenava (bevacizumab gamma), intended for t...
1377. ...amma), intended for treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (nAMD). The applicant for this medicinal product is Outlook Therapeutics Limited. Lytenava was approved for medical **use** in the European Union in May 2024. In March 2007, the European Commission approved bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel for the first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer. In 2008, the FD...
1378. ...ay 2024. In March 2007, the European Commission approved bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel for the first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer. In 2008, the FDA approved bevacizumab for **use** in breast cancer. A panel of outside advisers voted 5 to 4 against approval, but their recommendations were overruled. The panel expressed concern that data from the clinical trial did not show any i...
1379. ...nnouncement, The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) updated the NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines for Oncology (NCCN Guidelines) for Breast Cancer to affirm the recommendation regarding the **use** of bevacizumab in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. In 2011, the US Food and Drug Administration removed bevacizumab indication for metastatic breast cancer after concluding that the drug ha...
1380. ...stration removed bevacizumab indication for metastatic breast cancer after concluding that the drug has not been shown to be safe and effective. The specific indication that was withdrawn was for the **use** of bevacizumab in metastatic breast cancer, with paclitaxel for the treatment of people who have not received chemotherapy for metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer. In February 2012, Roche and its...
1381. ...or Molecular Biology. In September 2017, the US FDA approved Amgen's biosimilar (generic name bevacizumab-awwb, product name Mvasi) for six cancer indications. In January 2018, Mvasi was approved for **use** in the European Union. In February 2019, Zirabev was approved for use in the European Union. Zirabev was approved for medical use in the United States in June 2019, and in Australia in November 2019....
1382. ...iosimilar (generic name bevacizumab-awwb, product name Mvasi) for six cancer indications. In January 2018, Mvasi was approved for use in the European Union. In February 2019, Zirabev was approved for **use** in the European Union. Zirabev was approved for medical use in the United States in June 2019, and in Australia in November 2019. In June 2020, Mvasi was approved for medical use in Australia. In Aug...
1383. ...) for six cancer indications. In January 2018, Mvasi was approved for use in the European Union. In February 2019, Zirabev was approved for use in the European Union. Zirabev was approved for medical **use** in the United States in June 2019, and in Australia in November 2019. In June 2020, Mvasi was approved for medical use in Australia. In August 2020, Aybintio was approved for use in the European Unio...
1384. ...bev was approved for use in the European Union. Zirabev was approved for medical use in the United States in June 2019, and in Australia in November 2019. In June 2020, Mvasi was approved for medical **use** in Australia. In August 2020, Aybintio was approved for use in the European Union. In September 2020, Equidacent was approved for use in the European Union. In January 2021, the Committee for Medicin...
1385. ...approved for medical use in the United States in June 2019, and in Australia in November 2019. In June 2020, Mvasi was approved for medical use in Australia. In August 2020, Aybintio was approved for **use** in the European Union. In September 2020, Equidacent was approved for use in the European Union. In January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Medicines A...
1386. ...ia in November 2019. In June 2020, Mvasi was approved for medical use in Australia. In August 2020, Aybintio was approved for use in the European Union. In September 2020, Equidacent was approved for **use** in the European Union. In January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a mar...
1387. ...st 2020, Aybintio was approved for use in the European Union. In September 2020, Equidacent was approved for use in the European Union. In January 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human **Use** (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Alymsys, intended for the treatment of carci...
1388. ...or rectum, breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, renal cell cancer, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer, and carcinoma of the cervix. Alymsys was approved for medical **use** in the European Union in March 2021. In January 2021, Onbevzi was approved for medical use in the European Union. In June 2019, and June 2021, Zirabev was approved for medical use in Canada. Oyavas w...
1389. ..., fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer, and carcinoma of the cervix. Alymsys was approved for medical use in the European Union in March 2021. In January 2021, Onbevzi was approved for medical **use** in the European Union. In June 2019, and June 2021, Zirabev was approved for medical use in Canada. Oyavas was approved for medical use in the European Union in March 2021. Abevmy was approved for me...
1390. ...pproved for medical use in the European Union in March 2021. In January 2021, Onbevzi was approved for medical use in the European Union. In June 2019, and June 2021, Zirabev was approved for medical **use** in Canada. Oyavas was approved for medical use in the European Union in March 2021. Abevmy was approved for medical use in the European Union in April 2021, and in Australia in September 2021. In Sep...
1391. ...n March 2021. In January 2021, Onbevzi was approved for medical use in the European Union. In June 2019, and June 2021, Zirabev was approved for medical use in Canada. Oyavas was approved for medical **use** in the European Union in March 2021. Abevmy was approved for medical use in the European Union in April 2021, and in Australia in September 2021. In September 2021, Bambevi was approved for medical u...
1392. ...e European Union. In June 2019, and June 2021, Zirabev was approved for medical use in Canada. Oyavas was approved for medical use in the European Union in March 2021. Abevmy was approved for medical **use** in the European Union in April 2021, and in Australia in September 2021. In September 2021, Bambevi was approved for medical use in Canada. Bevacip and Bevaciptin were approved for medical use in Aus...
1393. ...e in the European Union in March 2021. Abevmy was approved for medical use in the European Union in April 2021, and in Australia in September 2021. In September 2021, Bambevi was approved for medical **use** in Canada. Bevacip and Bevaciptin were approved for medical use in Australia in November 2021. In November 2021, Abevmy and Aybintio were approved for medical use in Canada. In April 2022, bevacizuma...
1394. ...edical use in the European Union in April 2021, and in Australia in September 2021. In September 2021, Bambevi was approved for medical use in Canada. Bevacip and Bevaciptin were approved for medical **use** in Australia in November 2021. In November 2021, Abevmy and Aybintio were approved for medical use in Canada. In April 2022, bevacizumab-maly (Alymsys) was approved for medical use in the United Stat...
1395. ...21, Bambevi was approved for medical use in Canada. Bevacip and Bevaciptin were approved for medical use in Australia in November 2021. In November 2021, Abevmy and Aybintio were approved for medical **use** in Canada. In April 2022, bevacizumab-maly (Alymsys) was approved for medical use in the United States. In August 2022, Vegzelma was approved for medical use in the European Union. In September 2022,...
1396. ...proved for medical use in Australia in November 2021. In November 2021, Abevmy and Aybintio were approved for medical use in Canada. In April 2022, bevacizumab-maly (Alymsys) was approved for medical **use** in the United States. In August 2022, Vegzelma was approved for medical use in the European Union. In September 2022, bevacizumab-adcd (Vegzelma) was approved for medical use in the United States. In...
1397. ...my and Aybintio were approved for medical use in Canada. In April 2022, bevacizumab-maly (Alymsys) was approved for medical use in the United States. In August 2022, Vegzelma was approved for medical **use** in the European Union. In September 2022, bevacizumab-adcd (Vegzelma) was approved for medical use in the United States. In June 2023, Enzene Biosciences launched its bevacizumab biosimilar in India....
1398. ...was approved for medical use in the United States. In August 2022, Vegzelma was approved for medical use in the European Union. In September 2022, bevacizumab-adcd (Vegzelma) was approved for medical **use** in the United States. In June 2023, Enzene Biosciences launched its bevacizumab biosimilar in India. Bevacizumab-tnjn (Avzivi) was approved for medical use in the United States in December 2023. In M...
1399. ...ab-adcd (Vegzelma) was approved for medical use in the United States. In June 2023, Enzene Biosciences launched its bevacizumab biosimilar in India. Bevacizumab-tnjn (Avzivi) was approved for medical **use** in the United States in December 2023. In May 2024, the CHMP adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Avzivi, intended for the trea...
1400. ...ithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer and carcinoma of the cervix. The applicant for this medicinal product is FGK Representative Service GmbH. Avzivi was approved for medical **use** in the European Union in July 2024. A study released in April 2009, found that bevacizumab is not effective at preventing recurrences of non-metastatic colon cancer following surgery. Bevacizumab has...
1401. ...ribing/administering separate drugs, or, where available, dosage forms that contain more than one active ingredient (such as fixed-dose combinations). Polypharmacy is a related term, referring to the **use** of multiple medications (without regard to whether they are for the same or separate conditions/diseases). Sometimes "polymedicine" is used to refer to pharmaceutical combination therapy. Most of the...
1402. ...therapy as a top research priority in oncology. Combination therapy with two or more antibiotics are often used in an effort to treat multi-drug resistant Gram-negative bacteria. Monotherapy, or the **use** of a single therapy, can be applied to any therapeutic approach, but it is most commonly used to describe the use of a single medication. Normally, monotherapy is selected because a single medication...
1403. ...n an effort to treat multi-drug resistant Gram-negative bacteria. Monotherapy, or the use of a single therapy, can be applied to any therapeutic approach, but it is most commonly used to describe the **use** of a single medication. Normally, monotherapy is selected because a single medication is adequate to treat the medical condition. However, monotherapies may also be used because of unwanted side effe...
1404. ...and polymers. The most widely used and studied foams are glass microspheres (in epoxy or polymers), and cenospheres or ceramics (in aluminium). One can change the volume fraction of microballoons or **use** microballoons of different effective density, the latter depending on the average ratio between the inner and outer radii of the microballoons. A manufacturing method for low density syntactic foams...
1405. ...shing. Ultimately, unlike the polymeric and metallic syntactic foams, they did not emerge as suitable materials for energy dissipation applications. Structural applications of syntactic foams include **use** as the intermediate layer (that is, the core) of sandwich panels. Though the cementitious syntactic foams demonstrate superior specific strength values in comparison to most conventional cementitious...
1406. ...an of the national nonprofit organization Partnership for a Drug-Free America (PDFA), formed by a consortium of advertising professionals who ran a research-based media campaign to discourage teenage **use** of illegal drugs such as marijuana. Burke was honored for his public service advertising work by then US president Bill Clinton, who awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilia...
1407. ...pitals may take the form of an antimicrobial stewardship program. It has been argued that depending on the cultural context government can aid in educating the public on the importance of restrictive **use** of antibiotics for human clinical use, but unlike narcotics, there is no regulation of its use anywhere in the world at this time. Antibiotic use has been restricted or regulated for treating animals...
1408. ...robial stewardship program. It has been argued that depending on the cultural context government can aid in educating the public on the importance of restrictive use of antibiotics for human clinical **use**, but unlike narcotics, there is no regulation of its use anywhere in the world at this time. Antibiotic use has been restricted or regulated for treating animals raised for human consumption with suc...
1409. ...ding on the cultural context government can aid in educating the public on the importance of restrictive use of antibiotics for human clinical use, but unlike narcotics, there is no regulation of its **use** anywhere in the world at this time. Antibiotic use has been restricted or regulated for treating animals raised for human consumption with success, in Denmark for example. Infection prevention is the...
1410. ...educating the public on the importance of restrictive use of antibiotics for human clinical use, but unlike narcotics, there is no regulation of its use anywhere in the world at this time. Antibiotic **use** has been restricted or regulated for treating animals raised for human consumption with success, in Denmark for example. Infection prevention is the most efficient strategy of prevention of an infect...
1411. ...r excision can be attempted (with MDR-TB the lung for example), but in the case of a systemic infection only generic measures like boosting the immune system with immunoglobulins may be possible. The **use** of bacteriophages (viruses which kill bacteria) is a developing area of possible therapeutic treatments. It is necessary to develop new antibiotics over time since the selection of resistant bacteria...
1412. ...e in the model structure itself is needed ("e.g.", when extrapolating to a pregnant female, equations for the foetus should be added). Owing to the mechanistic basis of PBPK models, another potential **use** of PBPK modeling is hypothesis testing. For example, if a drug compound showed lower-than-expected oral bioavailability, various model structures (i.e., hypotheses) and parameter values can be evalua...
1413. ...or portable clinics, and can also provide an economical source of oxygen in industrial processes, where they are also known as oxygen gas generators or oxygen generation plants. Two methods in common **use** are pressure swing adsorption and membrane gas separation.  Pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen concentrators use a molecular sieve to adsorb gases and operate on the principle of rapid pressure s...
1414. ...known as oxygen gas generators or oxygen generation plants. Two methods in common use are pressure swing adsorption and membrane gas separation.  Pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen concentrators **use** a molecular sieve to adsorb gases and operate on the principle of rapid pressure swing adsorption of atmospheric nitrogen onto zeolite minerals at high pressure. This type of adsorption system is the...
1415. ...cturing output of these devices increasing in the late 1970s. Union Carbide Corporation and Bendix Corporation were both early manufacturers. Before that era, home medical oxygen therapy required the **use** of heavy high-pressure oxygen cylinders or small cryogenic liquid oxygen systems. Both of these delivery systems required frequent home visits by suppliers to replenish oxygen supplies. In the United...
1416. ...t (DME) industry to rapidly embrace concentrators as a way to control costs. This reimbursement change dramatically decreased the number of primary high pressure and liquid oxygen delivery systems in **use** in homes in the United States at that time. Oxygen concentrators became the preferred and most common means of delivering home oxygen. The number of manufacturers entering the oxygen concentrator mar...
1417. ...For other purposes, there are also concentrators based on nitrogen separation membrane technology. An oxygen concentrator takes in air and removes nitrogen from it, leaving an oxygen-enriched gas for **use** by people requiring medical oxygen due to low oxygen levels in their blood. Oxygen concentrators provide an economical source of oxygen in industrial processes, where they are also known as oxygen ga...
1418. ...d for a period of about 20 seconds and supplied up to 5 litres per minute of 90+% oxygen. Since about 1999, units capable of supplying up to 10 L/min have been available. Classic oxygen concentrators **use** two-bed molecular sieves; newer concentrators use multi-bed molecular sieves. The advantage of the multi-bed technology is the increased availability and redundancy, as the 10 L/min molecular sieves...
1419. ...to 5 litres per minute of 90+% oxygen. Since about 1999, units capable of supplying up to 10 L/min have been available. Classic oxygen concentrators use two-bed molecular sieves; newer concentrators **use** multi-bed molecular sieves. The advantage of the multi-bed technology is the increased availability and redundancy, as the 10 L/min molecular sieves are staggered and multiplied on several platforms....
1420. ...cal and technologically useful, they are bound by their performance, known as the Robeson limit (permeability must be sacrificed for selectivity and vice versa). This limit affects polymeric membrane **use** for CO separation from flue gas streams, since mass transport becomes limiting and CO separation becomes very expensive due to low permeabilities. Membrane materials have expanded into the realm of s...
1421. ...Since the early 2000s, many companies have produced portable oxygen concentrators. Typically, these devices produce the equivalent of one to five liters per minute of continuous oxygen flow and they **use** some version of pulse flow or "demand flow" to deliver oxygen only when the patient is inhaling. They can also provide pulses of oxygen either to provide higher intermittent flows or to reduce power...
1422. ...equired by medical oxygen concentrators can be potentially "reduced by a factor of three while offering ~10–20% higher oxygen recovery compared to a typical commercial unit." The FAA has approved the **use** of portable oxygen concentrators on commercial airlines. However, users of these devices should check in advance as to whether a particular brand or model is permitted on a particular airline. Unlike...
1423. ...ping patient is inhaling. Some larger portable oxygen concentrators are designed to operate in a continuous-flow mode in addition to pulse-flow mode. Continuous-flow mode is considered safe for night **use** when coupled with a CPAP machine. Repurposed medical oxygen concentrators or specialized industrial oxygen concentrators can be made to operate "small" oxyacetylene or other fuel gas cutting, welding...
1424. ...or disaster situations, where oxygen tanks may be dangerous or unfeasible. Oxygen concentrators are considered sufficiently foolproof to be supplied to individual patients as a prescription item for **use** in their homes. Typically they are used as an adjunct to CPAP treatment of severe sleep apnea. There also are other medical uses for oxygen concentrators, including COPD and other respiratory disease...
1425. ...ther respiratory diseases. People who depend upon oxygen concentrators for home care may have life-threatening emergencies if the electricity fails during a natural disaster. Industrial processes may **use** much higher pressures and flows than medical units. To meet that need, another process, called vacuum swing adsorption (VSA), has been developed by Air Products. This process uses a single low-pressu...
1426. ...rators". The distinction is used in an attempt to clarify that industrial oxygen concentrators are not medical devices approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and they are not suitable for **use** as bedside medical concentrators. However, applying the oxygen generator nomenclature can lead to confusion. The term oxygen "generator" is a misnomer in that the oxygen is not "generated" as it is w...
1427. ..., was an Australian not-for-profit prescribing and pharmaceutical information service. The NPS was founded in March 1998 and funded by the federal Department of Health and Aged Care under the Quality **Use** of Medicines (QUM) grant. It provided practical tools, education programs, and evidence-based drug and therapeutics information to clinicians and patients, with the intention of improving the way hea...
1428. ...Australian Prescriber" journal and Choosing Wisely being externalised. NPS MedicineWise was founded in 1998 as part of an Australian Government shift in health policy to address issues around Quality **Use** of Medicines (QUM). NPS MedicineWise' initial mandate was to reduce the cost of medicines to Australia's Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) by providing clinically reviewed independent information...
1429. ...prescriptions and improved prescribing decisions within the medical community. Various health professionals argue that, despite potential conflicts between cost-saving and the organization's Quality **Use** of Medicines mandate, NPS Medicinewise will continue to improve on the current PBS system. NPS MedicineWise has also developed programs and resources to help consumers and health practitioners discus...
1430. ...ystem. NPS MedicineWise has also developed programs and resources to help consumers and health practitioners discuss health issues and improve the QUM within Australia. NMS is the pre-eminent quality **use** of medicines symposium held in Australia. Held every two years, the scientific program is designed to provide the latest and the controversial in the medicines and health environment and is delivered...
1431. ...he medicines and health environment and is delivered by international and nationally acclaimed experts. International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** The International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) is an initiative that brings together regulatory authorities and pharmaceutical industry...
1432. ...International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use The International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** (ICH) is an initiative that brings together regulatory authorities and pharmaceutical industry to discuss scientific and technical aspects of pharmaceutical product development and registration. The...
1433. ...omote public health by achieving greater harmonisation through the development of technical guidelines and requirements for pharmaceutical product registration. Harmonisation leads to a more rational **use** of human, animal and other resources, the elimination of unnecessary delay in the global development, and availability of new medicines while maintaining safeguards on quality, safety, efficacy, and...
1434. ...989, Europe, Japan, and the United States began creating plans for harmonisation. The International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** (ICH) was created in April 1990 at a meeting in Brussels. ICH had the initial objective of coordinating the regulatory activities of the European, Japanese and American regulatory bodies in consultat...
1435. ...ion beyond the founding ICH regions. In 2015, ICH underwent several reforms and changed its name to the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** while becoming a legal entity in Switzerland as a non-profit association. The aim of these reforms was to transform ICH into a truly global initiative supported by a robust and transparent governance...
1436. ...be established promptly in emergent situations. Intraosseous infusions are used when people have compromised intravenous access and need immediate delivery of life-saving fluids and medications. The **use** of the IV route to administer fluids has been around since the 1830s, and, in 1922, Cecil K. Drinker et al. saw that bone, specifically the sternum, could also be used as a route of administration fo...
1437. ...ble success to administer IV fluids and drugs, intraosseous infusion was popularized during World War II to prevent soldiers' deaths via hemorrhagic shock. While popular in the field during WWII, the **use** of IO was not seen as a standard for emergencies until the 1980s, and only so for children. With the rise of technology allowing the ease of technique of IO, and a lower risk of complications like bl...
1438. ...g contrast if needed for radiology scans and drawing blood for laboratory testing and analysis. Situations that can result in decreased or delayed access to peripheral veins, and thus necessitate the **use** of an IO route to infuse medications and fluids include circumstances such as burns, fluid accumulation (edema), past IV drug use, obesity, and very low blood pressure. An IO infusion can be used on...
1439. ...eased or delayed access to peripheral veins, and thus necessitate the use of an IO route to infuse medications and fluids include circumstances such as burns, fluid accumulation (edema), past IV drug **use**, obesity, and very low blood pressure. An IO infusion can be used on adult or pediatric populations when traditional methods of vascular access are difficult or otherwise cause unwanted delayed manag...
1440. ...r otherwise cause unwanted delayed management of the administration of medications. The IO site can be used for 24 hours and should be removed as soon as intravenous access has been gained. Prolonged **use** of an IO site, lasting longer than 24 hours, is associated with osteomyelitis (an infection in the bone). The needle is inserted through the bone's hard cortex and into the soft marrow interior, whic...
1441. ...proper education and training, medical professionals can obtain vascular access via the IO route of administration by using one of the multiple devices that have been approved by the FDA for 24-hour **use**. There are several FDA approved IO devices, categorized by their mechanism of action: Each device is capable of achieving rapid vascular access, despite the mechanism of action, with insertion times...
1442. ...iatric anaesthetic drugs. Intraosseous infusion (IO) is used in pediatric populations during anesthesia when other intravenous access, central venous catherization or venous cutdown, are difficult to **use** or cannot be used. When individuals are severely ill and need "rapid, efficient, and safe delivery of drugs", IO is used. When inserting the intraosseous needle into a conscious individual, this can...
1443. ...at individuals who received IO vs. peripheral and central intravenous access were able to obtain much faster and more successful IO access. Another study, by Fiorito et al., observed the safety of IO **use** during the transportation of critically ill pediatric individuals. Based on the results, they concluded that the use of IO was safe, based on 78% successful placement of the IO needle and complicatio...
1444. ...successful IO access. Another study, by Fiorito et al., observed the safety of IO use during the transportation of critically ill pediatric individuals. Based on the results, they concluded that the **use** of IO was safe, based on 78% successful placement of the IO needle and complications that occurred in only 12% of the cases. Similarly to adults, contraindications for IO infusion use in pediatrics i...
1445. ...cluded that the use of IO was safe, based on 78% successful placement of the IO needle and complications that occurred in only 12% of the cases. Similarly to adults, contraindications for IO infusion **use** in pediatrics include bone diseases such as osteogenesis imperfecta and osteopetrosis, and fractures. Others include cellulitis, burns, and infections at the access site. Footedness In human biology,...
1446. ...cular foot in the leading position while engaging in foot- or kicking-related sports, such as association football and kickboxing. A person may thus be left-footed, right-footed or ambipedal (able to **use** both feet equally well). In association football, the ball is predominantly struck by the foot. Footedness may refer to the foot a player uses to kick with the greatest force and skill. Most people a...
1447. ...itchell and Charles Bushnell (footballer, retired).  In basketball, a sport composed almost solely of right-handed players, it is common for most athletes to have a dominant left leg which they would **use** when jumping to complete a right-hand layup. Hence, left-handed basketball players tend to use their right leg more as they finish a left handed layup (although both right- and left-handed players ar...
1448. ...ely of right-handed players, it is common for most athletes to have a dominant left leg which they would use when jumping to complete a right-hand layup. Hence, left-handed basketball players tend to **use** their right leg more as they finish a left handed layup (although both right- and left-handed players are usually able to use both hands when finishing near the basket).  In the National Football Lea...
1449. ...omplete a right-hand layup. Hence, left-handed basketball players tend to use their right leg more as they finish a left handed layup (although both right- and left-handed players are usually able to **use** both hands when finishing near the basket).  In the National Football League, a disproportionate, and increasing, number of punters punt with their left leg, where punting is the position in play tha...
1450. ...ose are nollie. For example, a jump using the tail rolling backwards is a "fakie ollie" (not a "switch nollie"), and a jump off the nose is a "nollie" (not a "fakie nollie"). Mongo foot refers to the **use** of the rider's front foot for pushing. Normally, a skateboarder will feel more comfortable using their back foot to push, while their front foot remains on the board. In the minority case of mongo-fo...
1451. ...ween mongo and normal when pushing switch include Jacob Vance, Stevie Williams, and Eric Koston. Although its origins remain uncertain, it is widely believed that the term derives from the pejorative **use** of "mongoloid". In BMX, there is a "de facto" relationship between footedness and preferences of grinding position and of mid-air turning direction. The terms "regular" and "goofy" do not indicate a...
1452. ...calculation shows that his intake was equivalent to about 6 or 7 marijuana cigarettes per dose, i.e. at the hallucinatory rather than at the euphoriant level prevalent in contemporary North American **use**. Ludlow wrote of taking as much as a drachm of the extract (3.9 grams or 0.14 ounces) in his largest doses — if Kalant's figures are correct, this would equate to a quarter-ounce of resin or well ove...
1453. ...s its name. Several proprietary variants are commercially available, where the coloring agent is a coal tar-derived dye such as E124 or E126, with alcoholic contents ranging from 21 to 32%. Its chief **use** is in coloring pastry, although a quick dessert is sometimes made by adding it to custard cream and sugar. In the Italian pudding "zuppa inglese", sponge cake or ladyfingers soaked in this liqueur ar...
1454. ...and less viscous. It is usually delivered as a semi-solid paste spread on the skin, and it is often oily in order to suspend the medication or other active ingredients. During the Victorian era, the **use** of the unguent macassar oil on the hair became so popular that antimacassars were invented to prevent damage to furniture. Various preparations of mercurochrome unguent are occasionally used as adjun...
1455. ...ion for the rate sensitivity phenomenon, and other pathways of deactivation of B may be considered, with the subsequent return to the inactive form of the receptor/enzyme A. Examples offer particular **use** of such (mathematical) models in endocrinology, physiology and pharmacology. Psychedelics such as LSD, and psilocybin-containing mushrooms demonstrate very rapid tachyphylaxis. In a patient fully wit...
1456. ...opioid receptors modified in the past or affecting a change in some metabolic set-point is unclear. Increasing the dose will usually restore efficacy; relatively rapid opioid rotation may also be of **use** if the increase in tolerance continues. Inhalation of an agonist for the beta-2 adrenergic receptor, such as salbutamol (albuterol — USAN), is the most common treatment for asthma. Polymorphisms of t...
1457. ...axis. Expression of the Gly-16 allele (glycine at position 16) results in greater receptor downregulation by endogenous catecholamines at baseline compared to Arg-16. This results in a greater single-**use** bronchodilator response in individuals homozygous for Arg-16 compared to Gly-16 homozygotes. However, with regular beta-2 agonist use, asthmatic Arg-16 individuals experience a significant decline in...
1458. ...at baseline compared to Arg-16. This results in a greater single-use bronchodilator response in individuals homozygous for Arg-16 compared to Gly-16 homozygotes. However, with regular beta-2 agonist **use**, asthmatic Arg-16 individuals experience a significant decline in bronchodilator response. This decline does not occur in Gly-16 individuals. It has been proposed that the tachyphylactic effect of re...
1459. ...anism of this action is unclear. Acute tachyphylaxis which does not carry into the next day has been observed in children taking methylphenidate, and inspired the development of OROS methylphenidate. **Use** of nasal decongestants (e.g., oxymetazoline) for more than three days leads to tachyphylaxis of response and rebound congestion, caused by alpha-adrenergic receptor downregulation and desensitization...
1460. ...drenergic receptor downregulation and desensitization. The mechanism may specifically include receptor internalisation and resistance to endogenous vasoconstrictors causing worsening in symptoms post **use** of medication. Oxymetazoline-induced tachyphylaxis and rebound congestion are reversed by intranasal fluticasone. Neuropharmacology Neuropharmacology is the study of how drugs affect function in the...
1461. ...he 1930s, French scientists began working with a compound called phenothiazine in the hope of synthesizing a drug that would be able to combat malaria. Though this drug showed very little hope in the **use** against malaria-infected individuals, it was found to have sedative effects along with what appeared to be beneficial effects toward patients with Parkinson's disease. This black box method, wherein...
1462. ...r part of the brain that reinforces addiction through neurochemical reward is the nucleus accumbens. The image to the right shows how dopamine is projected into this area. Long-term excessive alcohol **use** can cause dependence and addiction. How this addiction occurs is described below. Alcohol's rewarding and reinforcing (i.e., addictive) properties are mediated through its effects on dopamine neurons...
1463. ...itter dopamine cannot. There has been extensive research to determine whether L-dopa is a better treatment for Parkinson's disease rather than other dopamine agonists. Some believe that the long-term **use** of L-dopa will compromise neuroprotection and, thus, eventually lead to dopaminergic cell death. Though there has been no proof, in-vivo or in-vitro, some still believe that the long-term use of dopa...
1464. ...ng-term use of L-dopa will compromise neuroprotection and, thus, eventually lead to dopaminergic cell death. Though there has been no proof, in-vivo or in-vitro, some still believe that the long-term **use** of dopamine agonists is better for the patient. While there are a variety of hypotheses that have been proposed for the cause of Alzheimer's disease, the knowledge of this disease is far from complet...
1465. ...to the silicon atom as follows: Depending on the amount of water and catalyst present, hydrolysis may proceed to completion to silica: Complete hydrolysis often requires an excess of water and/or the **use** of a hydrolysis catalyst such as acetic acid or hydrochloric acid. Intermediate species including [(OR)−Si−(OH)] or [(OR)−Si−(OH)] may result as products of partial hydrolysis reactions. Early interm...
1466. ...h optical and refractory ceramic fibers can be drawn which are used for fiber optic sensors and thermal insulation, respectively. Thus, many ceramic materials, both glassy and crystalline, have found **use** in various forms from bulk solid-state components to high surface area forms such as thin films, coatings and fibers. Also, thin films have found their application in the electronic field and can be...
1467. .... When fumes from these substances are inhaled, they act as potent vasodilators, producing mild euphoria, warmth, and dizziness. Most effects have a rapid onset and are short-acting. Its recreational **use** is believed to be potentially dangerous for people with heart problems, anaemia, or glaucoma. Reported adverse effects include fainting, retinal toxicity, and vision loss. As poppers include a broad...
1468. ...ause of maculopathy (eye damage), as reported in France and the United Kingdom. Some studies have concluded that there may be increased risk for at least temporary retinal damage with habitual popper **use** in certain users; in a letter to the "New England Journal of Medicine", an ophthalmologist described four cases in which recreational users of isopropyl nitrite poppers suffered temporary changes in...
1469. ...rare complication of isopropyl nitrite abuse. A full recovery of visual acuity in longterm abuse could be demonstrated after drug abstinence. Studies have shown that poppers users who have HIV and/or **use** Sildenafil in combination with poppers are at an increased risk of developing poppers‐associated maculopathy. Foveal (center-of-gaze) damage has also been described, in six habitual users of isopropy...
1470. ...the thyroids of the male mice exposed. Isobutyl Nitrite is no longer sold as 'Poppers' having been banned in the EU since 2007 and banned in the USA since 1990.  Early in the AIDS crisis, widespread **use** of poppers among AIDS patients led to the later disproved hypothesis that poppers contributed to the development of Kaposi's sarcoma, a rare form of cancer that occurs in AIDS patients. Modest, short...
1471. ...um nitrite, and sodium thiosulfate. The nitrites were administered to produce methemoglobin and induce vasodilation. Amyl nitrites were discontinued in 2012 in standard cyanide kits. Cyanide kits now **use** hydroxocobalamin. Poppers contain a class of chemicals called alkyl nitrites. To the extent that poppers products contain alkyl nitrites, the following applies. The following table summarizes alkyl n...
1472. ...The French chemist Antoine Jérôme Balard synthesized amyl nitrite in 1844. Sir Thomas Lauder Brunton, a Scottish physician born in the year of amyl nitrite's first synthesis, documented its clinical **use** to treat angina pectoris in 1867 when patients experiencing chest pains would experience complete relief after inhalation. Brunton was inspired by earlier work with the same agent, performed by Arthu...
1473. ...yl nitrates. Brunton also found that propyl nitrites had the same effects as well. Although amyl nitrite is known for its practical therapeutic applications, the first documented case of recreational **use** was in 1964. The poppers "craze" began in the early 1970s in the gay male community in bars, discothèques and bathhouses. It was packaged and sold pharmaceutically in fragile glass ampoules wrapped i...
1474. ...drugs with similar effects, e.g. butyl nitrite which is packaged under a variety of trade names in small bottles. In the late 1970s "Time" magazine and "The Wall Street Journal" reported that popper **use** among gay men began as a way to enhance sexual pleasure, but "quickly spread to avant-garde heterosexuals". A series of interviews conducted in the late 1970s revealed a wide spectrum of users. Poppe...
1475. ...further consultation sought. In October 2018, the Australian Federation of AIDS Organisations (AFAO) pointed out the lack of quality evidence provided by the TGA to justify the rescheduling and that **use** of amyl nitrites has been stable over the past decade with very little evidence of harm and has been in use by a high proportion of gay men over a long period. A final decision was pushed back from 2...
1476. ...d out the lack of quality evidence provided by the TGA to justify the rescheduling and that use of amyl nitrites has been stable over the past decade with very little evidence of harm and has been in **use** by a high proportion of gay men over a long period. A final decision was pushed back from 29 November 2018 to late January or early February 2019 for further consultation with the public. As of March...
1477. ...ex, Health and Society (ARCSHS). Along with 70 written public proposals, there was significant opposition to alkyl nitrites rescheduling. Banning alkyl nitrites was not considered acceptable as their **use** was said to help reduce harms such as anal injury and blood-borne disease transmission during anal sex. In June 2019, Australia decided not to ban poppers. Since 2013, Health Canada has banned all di...
1478. ...o until 1960, when the Food and Drug Administration removed the prescription requirement due to its safety record. This requirement was reinstated in 1969, after observing an increase in recreational **use**. There was a huge increase in the number of brands for butyl nitrites after the FDA put in the prescription requirement again in 1969. Butyl nitrites were outlawed in 1988 by the Anti-Drug Abuse Act...
1479. ...nitrite. In 1990, isopropyl nitrites and other nitrites not yet banned were outlawed by the Crime Control Act of 1990. Both of these laws include an exception for "commercial purpose", defined as any **use** other than for the production of consumer products containing volatile alkyl nitrites meant for inhaling or otherwise introducing volatile alkyl nitrites into the human body for euphoric or physical...
1480. ...mething that enhances sexual appetite. The word "anaphrodisiac" comes from the Greek privative prefix ἀν-, denoting negation, and "aphrodisiac", from the Greek goddess of love, Aphrodite. Some people **use** anaphrodisiacs in order to curb a very high libido or due to hypersexuality. However anaphrodisiacs are also used by those with an average libido, at times due to having incessant schedules. Some com...
1481. ...age libido, at times due to having incessant schedules. Some common anaphrodisiacs are ethanol (alcohol) and tobacco, but this is typically an unintended consequence and not often the main reason for **use**. While alcohol is used socially because it initially reduces mental inhibitions, studies have shown that over time alcohol physically decreases arousal and makes achieving climax more difficult. For...
1482. ...त्रम्), literally meaning "dark-tree leaves", with the "ta" being mistaken for the Greek definite article. Pharming (genetics) Pharming, a portmanteau of "farming" and "pharmaceutical", refers to the **use** of genetic engineering to insert genes that code for useful pharmaceuticals into host animals or plants that would otherwise not express those genes, thus creating a genetically modified organism (GM...
1483. ...a transgenic mammal that can produce the biopharmaceutical in its milk (or blood or urine). Once an animal is produced, typically using the pronuclear microinjection method, it becomes efficacious to **use** cloning technology to create additional offspring that carry the favorable modified genome. In February 2009 the US FDA granted marketing approval for the first drug to be produced in genetically mod...
1484. ...2006. As indicated above, some mammals typically used for food production (such as goats, sheep, pigs, and cows) have been modified to produce non-food products, a practice sometimes called pharming. **Use** of genetically modified goats has been approved by the FDA and EMA to produce ATryn, i.e. recombinant antithrombin, an anticoagulant protein drug. These products "produced by turning animals into dru...
1485. ...sed to being grown in fields), secrete the transformed proteins into the growth medium and, thus, substantially reduce the burden of protein purification in preparing recombinant proteins for medical **use**. In addition, both species can be engineered to cause secretion of proteins with human patterns of glycosylation, an improvement over conventional plant gene-expression systems. Biolex Therapeutics d...
1486. ...– including those used for pharming – between countries, with some of the most marked differences occurring between the USA and Europe. Regulation varies in a given country depending on the intended **use** of the products of the genetic engineering. For example, a crop not intended for food use is generally not reviewed by authorities responsible for food safety. There are controversies around GMOs gen...
1487. ...ferences occurring between the USA and Europe. Regulation varies in a given country depending on the intended use of the products of the genetic engineering. For example, a crop not intended for food **use** is generally not reviewed by authorities responsible for food safety. There are controversies around GMOs generally on several levels, including whether making them is ethical, issues concerning inte...
1488. ...new chemical entity (NCE) is, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, a novel, small, chemical molecule drug that is undergoing clinical trials or has received a first approval (not a new **use**) by the FDA in any other application submitted under section 505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. A new molecular entity (NME) is a broader term that encompasses both an NCE or an NBE...
1489. ...a novel food to be used at a maximum intake level of 6 mg/kg body weight per day in addition to the intake from the background diet." A prescription drug ("Cystadane") containing betaine has limited **use** for oral treatment of genetic homocystinuria to lower levels of homocysteine in circulating blood. Trimethylglycine, a betaine, is used as a dietary supplement, although there is no evidence that it...
1490. ...esults that were published simultaneously by Japanese and Dutch scientists working independently in the 1960s (the Dutch team called the glycoprotein "mieraculin"). The word "miraculin" was in common **use** by the mid-1970s. Miraculin was first sequenced in 1989 and was found to be a 24.6 kilodalton glycoprotein consisting of 191 amino acids and 13.9% by weight of various sugars. The sugars consist of a...
1491. ...lants have failed, researchers have succeeded in preparing genetically modified "E. coli" bacteria that express miraculin. Lettuce and tomato have also been used for mass production of miraculin. The **use** of miraculin as a food additive was denied in 1974 by the United States Food and Drug Administration. However, it can still be sold in the form of whole berries or tablets (as "dietary supplements")....
1492. ...nistration is often used for a single 24-hour dose of analgesia (opioid with local anesthetic). Caution should be exercised with intrathecal opioids due to the risk of late onset hypoventilation. The **use** of intrathecal morphine may be limited by severe pruritus and urinary retention. Pethidine has the unusual property of being both a local anaesthetic and opioid analgesic, which occasionally permits...
1493. ...intrathecal morphine may be limited by severe pruritus and urinary retention. Pethidine has the unusual property of being both a local anaesthetic and opioid analgesic, which occasionally permits its **use** as the sole intrathecal anaesthetic agent. An intrathecal pump system can be used to deliver a local anaesthetic, and/or an opioid and/or an atypical analgesic agent as ziconotide. Amphotericin B is...
1494. ...en done. Studies have not been done in lactating women; therefore, it is not known whether cinacalcet is excreted into human milk. Hypocalcemia (decreased calcium levels) is a contraindication to the **use** of cinacalcet. Those who have serum calcium levels less than 7.5 mg/dL should not be started on cinacalcet. Hypocalcemia symptoms include paresthesias, myalgias, muscle cramping, tetany, and convulsi...
1495. ...ping, tetany, and convulsions. Cinacalcet should not be administered until serum calcium levels are above 8.0 mg/dL and/or hypocalcemia symptoms are resolved. Cinacalcet is not approved for pediatric **use** in the United States. Common side effects of cinacalcet include upset stomach, vomiting, diarrhea, dizziness, nausea, weakness, and chest pain. Clinical trials conducted in the United States by Amgen...
1496. ...on parathyroid cells to reduce parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels and thus decrease serum calcium levels. History of cancer chemotherapy The era of cancer chemotherapy began in the 1940s with the first **use** of nitrogen mustards and folic acid antagonist drugs. The targeted therapy revolution has arrived, but many of the principles and limitations of chemotherapy discovered by the early researchers still...
1497. ...osure. In his report, Dr. Alexander theorized that since mustard gas all but ceased the division of certain types of somatic cells whose nature was to divide fast, it could also potentially be put to **use** in helping to suppress the division of certain types of cancerous cells. Using that information, Goodman and Gilman reasoned that this agent could be used to treat lymphoma, a tumor of lymphoid cells...
1498. ...i Hospital in New York administered the drug, and over the course of several months, Ruth's condition began to improve. However, Ruth died the following year. In 1951, Jane C. Wright demonstrated the **use** of methotrexate in solid tumors, showing remission in breast cancer. Wright's group was the first to demonstrate use of the drug in solid tumors, as opposed to leukemias, which are cancers of the mar...
1499. ...e. However, Ruth died the following year. In 1951, Jane C. Wright demonstrated the use of methotrexate in solid tumors, showing remission in breast cancer. Wright's group was the first to demonstrate **use** of the drug in solid tumors, as opposed to leukemias, which are cancers of the marrow. Several years later at the National Cancer Institute, Roy Hertz and Min Chiu Li then demonstrated complete remis...
1500. ...rd, vincristine, procarbazine and prednisone — known as the MOPP regimen — could cure patients with Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Currently, nearly all successful cancer chemotherapy regimens **use** this paradigm of multiple drugs given simultaneously, called combination chemotherapy or polychemotherapy. As predicted by studies in animal models, drugs were most effective when used in patients wi...
1501. ...ature) which, while not directly causing patient deaths, was unbearable at higher doses. The development of new drugs to prevent nausea (the prototype of which was ondansetron) was of great practical **use**, as was the design of indwelling intravenous catheters (e.g. Hickman lines and PICC lines) which allowed safe administration of chemotherapy as well as supportive therapy. One important contribution...
1502. ...90% achieve complete haematological remission. It is hoped that molecular targeting of similar defects in other cancers will have the same effect. Another branch in targeted therapy is the increasing **use** of monoclonal antibodies in cancer therapy. Although monoclonal antibodies (immune proteins which can be selected to precisely bind to almost any target) have been around for decades, they were deriv...
1503. ...tioned, however, and the earliest known reference in German is to a folksong first printed in 1602. "Bartlett's Familiar Quotations" cites Johann Heinrich Voss (1751–1826) as a likely source, but any **use** by him would have to be a later use of the phrase. The waltz "Wine, Women and Song" ("Wein, Weib und Gesang") is Op. 333 (1869) of Johann Strauss II. The lines "Deutsche Frauen, deutsche Treue, / Deu...
1504. ...own reference in German is to a folksong first printed in 1602. "Bartlett's Familiar Quotations" cites Johann Heinrich Voss (1751–1826) as a likely source, but any use by him would have to be a later **use** of the phrase. The waltz "Wine, Women and Song" ("Wein, Weib und Gesang") is Op. 333 (1869) of Johann Strauss II. The lines "Deutsche Frauen, deutsche Treue, / Deutscher Wein, und deutscher Sang" (Ge...
1505. ...t reliably predict success in unrelated areas that might be new to the organization. The International Council on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use**, a 2015 Swiss NGO of pharmaceutical companies and others, defined a contract research organization (CRO), specifically pertaining to clinical trials services as: "A person or an organization (commerc...
1506. ...ndrome (IRDS). Planar chirality Planar chirality, also known as 2D chirality, is the special case of chirality for two dimensions. Most fundamentally, planar chirality is a mathematical term, finding **use** in chemistry, physics and related physical sciences, for example, in astronomy, optics and metamaterials. Recent occurrences in latter two fields are dominated by microwave and terahertz applications...
1507. ...ticle contamination of an ampule occurred with all intravenous injection methods. The production and packaging of ampoules are largely standardized by ISO 9187-1:2010 "Injection equipment for medical **use** — Part 1: Ampoules for injectables". This standard dictates three standardized forms: B, cut/straight-form; C, open-funnel; and D, sealed. (The "A" form is no longer used in the pharmaceutical indust...
1508. ...inium is what makes the flowers blue; at a higher pH, the aluminium is not available to the plant. In the construction industry, it is used as waterproofing agent and accelerator in concrete. Another **use** is a foaming agent in fire fighting foam. It can also be very effective as a molluscicide, killing spanish slugs. Mordants aluminium triacetate and aluminium sulfacetate can be prepared from aluminiu...
1509. ...s trapped by the foam stabilizer and creates a thick foam which will float on top of hydrocarbon fuels and seal off access to atmospheric oxygen, smothering the fire. Chemical foam was unsuitable for **use** on polar solvents such as alcohol, as the fuel would mix with and break down the foam blanket. The carbon dioxide generated also served to propel the foam out of the container, be it a portable fire...
1510. ...s and has been replaced by synthetic mechanical foams, such as AFFF which have a longer shelf life, are more effective, and more versatile, although some countries such as Japan and India continue to **use** it. Astringent An astringent (sometimes called adstringent) is a chemical that shrinks or constricts body tissues. The word derives from the Latin "adstringere", which means "to bind fast". Astringen...
1511. ...roat, hemorrhages, diarrhea, and peptic ulcers. Externally applied astringents, which cause mild coagulation of skin proteins, dry, harden, and protect the skin. People with acne are often advised to **use** astringents if they have oily skin. Mild astringents relieve such minor skin irritations as those resulting from superficial cuts; allergies; insect bites; anal hemorrhoids; and fungal infections suc...
1512. ...r skin irritations as those resulting from superficial cuts; allergies; insect bites; anal hemorrhoids; and fungal infections such as athlete's foot. Redness-reducing eye drops contain an astringent. **Use** of Goulard's Extract has been discontinued due to lead poisoning. Some common astringents are alum, acacia, sage, yarrow, witch hazel, bayberry, distilled vinegar, very cold water, and rubbing alcoho...
1513. ...ominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, weakness, and rashes. Other severe side effects include blood clotting problems, allergic reactions, heart problems such as cardiomyopathy, and low blood cell counts. **Use** during pregnancy may result in harm to the fetus. Capecitabine, inside the body, is converted to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) through which it acts. It belongs to the class of medications known as fluoropyr...
1514. ...racil (5-FU) through which it acts. It belongs to the class of medications known as fluoropyrimidines, which also includes 5-FU and tegafur. Capecitabine was patented in 1992 and approved for medical **use** in 1998. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Capecitabine is indicated for Adverse effects by frequency: Notes on adverse effects: Contraindications include: Drugs i...
1515. ...ositive results in March 2010. GW and Otsuka have now commenced the Phase III development of nabiximols in cancer pain. In December 2012, Sativex was approved in Poland. In 2013, France legalized the **use** of cannabinoids in medicine, Sativex is the first one to be sold under prescription. Nevertheless, as of June 2016 this drug had still not actually been sold in pharmacies there. Of the two prelimina...
1516. ...unction, but wasn't supported for tremor. A 2021 study, however, showed “clinically relevant symptomatic results” Nabiximols has also been studied for cancer pain resistant to opioids. While adjuvant **use** of nabiximols was safe in 3 trials for cancer pain, data regarding efficacy were mixed, and the drug failed to meet its primary endpoint for this purpose in its first Phase III trial. In early clinic...
1517. ...acetate were used for disinfecting mucous membranes at an effective concentration of 0.07% in aqueous solutions. Due to toxicological and ecotoxicological reasons phenylmercury salts are no longer in **use**. However, some surgeons use mercurochrome despite toxicological objections. Mercurochrome is still available to purchase in Australia to use on minor wounds. Dental amalgam used in fillings inhibits...
1518. ...ecting mucous membranes at an effective concentration of 0.07% in aqueous solutions. Due to toxicological and ecotoxicological reasons phenylmercury salts are no longer in use. However, some surgeons **use** mercurochrome despite toxicological objections. Mercurochrome is still available to purchase in Australia to use on minor wounds. Dental amalgam used in fillings inhibits bacterial reproduction. Orga...
1519. ...toxicological reasons phenylmercury salts are no longer in use. However, some surgeons use mercurochrome despite toxicological objections. Mercurochrome is still available to purchase in Australia to **use** on minor wounds. Dental amalgam used in fillings inhibits bacterial reproduction. Organic mercury compounds have been used as topical disinfectants (thimerosal, nitromersol, and merbromin) and preser...
1520. ...inburgh" and "Dublin Pharmacopoeias". The Neo-Latin name that had some currency at the time was "Pharmacopoeia Britannica" (Ph. Br.). In 1844, concern about the dangers of unregulated manufacture and **use** led William Flockhart – who had provided chloroform to Doctor (later Sir) James Young Simpson for his experiment on anaesthesia – to recommend the creation of a 'Universal Phamacopoeia for Great Brit...
1521. ...Volume III Volume IV Volume V Volume VI: (CD-ROM version) The "British Pharmacopoeia" is available as a printed volume and electronically in both on-line and CD-ROM versions; the electronic products **use** sophisticated search techniques to locate information quickly. For example, pharmacists referring to a monograph can immediately link to other related substances and appendices referenced in the cont...
1522. ...referred to in Section 100 of the Medicines Act 1968. BANs are short, distinctive names for substances, where the systematic chemical or other scientific names are too complex for convenient general **use**. As a consequence of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended, the British Approved Names, since 2002, may be assumed to be the recommended International Non-proprietary Name (rINN), except where otherwise s...
1523. ...n the receptor and the ligand, while a slope less than one indicates negatively cooperative binding. Transformations of equations into linear forms such as this were very useful before the widespread **use** of computers, as they allowed researchers to determine parameters by fitting lines to data. However, these transformations affect error propagation, and this may result in undue weight to error in da...
1524. ...rmations affect error propagation, and this may result in undue weight to error in data points near 0 or 1. This impacts the parameters of linear regression lines fitted to the data. Furthermore, the **use** of computers enables more robust analysis involving nonlinear regression. A distinction should be made between quantification of drugs binding to receptors and drugs producing responses. There may no...
1525. ...ormed by regression methods such as the probit model or logit model, or other methods such as the Spearman–Kärber method. Empirical models based on nonlinear regression are usually preferred over the **use** of some transformation of the data that linearizes the dose-response relationship. The Hill coefficient is a measure of ultrasensitivity (i.e. how steep is the response curve). The Hill coefficient,...
1526. ...equation provides little insight into underlying physiological mechanisms of protein-ligand interactions. This simplicity, however, is what makes the Hill equation a useful empirical model, since its **use** requires little "a priori" knowledge about the properties of either the protein or ligand being studied. Nevertheless, other, more complex models of cooperative binding have been proposed. For more i...
1527. ...irality can also refer to enantiopure substances in which all the constituents are the same enantiomer (a right-handed or left-handed version of an atom or molecule), but some sources discourage this **use** of the term. It is unclear whether homochirality has a purpose; however, it appears to be a form of information storage. One suggestion is that it reduces entropy barriers in the formation of large o...
1528. ...these classes each have their own receptor-mu, kappa, and delta. Opioids will bind to the receptor for the endorphin they are most chemically similar to. Tolerance to some effects occurs with regular **use**, a result of the downregulation of the stimulated opioid receptors. Cross tolerance to analgesia may develop incompletely and less rapidly, allowing rotation between opioid medications be used to com...
1529. ...hich are vesicles formed from naturally occurring lipids. While having many of the properties of natural liposomes, polymersomes exhibit increased stability and reduced permeability. Furthermore, the **use** of synthetic polymers enables designers to manipulate the characteristics of the membrane and thus control permeability, release rates, stability and other properties of the polymersome. Several diff...
1530. ...une system if the hydrophilic block consists of polyethylene glycol. Thus, polymersomes are useful carriers for targeted medication. For in vivo applications, polymersomes are de facto limited to the **use** of FDA-approved polymers, as most pharmaceutical firms are unlikely to develop novel polymers due to cost issues. Fortunately, there are a number of such polymers available, with varying properties,...
1531. ...he data to evaluate the validity of the trial comes from past trials external to the current trial. Approved drug An approved drug is a medicinal preparation that has been validated for a therapeutic **use** by a ruling authority of a government. This process is usually specific by country, unless specified otherwise. In the United States, the FDA approves drugs. Before a drug can be prescribed, it must...
1532. ...st test it. The company then sends the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) evidence from these tests to prove the drug is safe and effective for its intended **use**. A fee is required to make such FDA submission. For financial year 2020, this fee was: for an application requiring clinical data ($2,942,965) and for an application not requiring clinical data ($1,4...
1533. ...elationship with this treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended symptom or sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding) or disease temporally associated with the **use** of a medicinal (investigational) product, whether or not related to the medicinal (investigational) product. AEs in patients participating in clinical trials must be reported to the study sponsor and...
1534. ...classified as not serious, unexpected, and possibly study-related. The death would be classified as serious and unexpected (unless the patient was already at death's door). The local researcher would **use** his/her medical judgment to determine whether the death could have been related to the study device. Both the skin irritation and the death are unexpected events, and should alert the researcher to t...
1535. ...Es to the local Institutional Review Board and to the sponsor, and await direction on whether to stop the study. If the researcher feels there is an imminent danger posed by the device, he or she can **use** medical discretion to stop patients from participating in the study. An adverse event can also be declared in the normal treatment of a patient which is suspected of being caused by the medication be...
1536. ...tical solutions. By the late 1980s, BFS had been well-established in the packaging industry, especially for packaging pharmaceutical and healthcare products. During the 1980s and 1990s, BFS came into **use** for the now common small volume unit-dosage forms. Since the early 2000s, BFS has been emerging as the preferred packaging process for parenteral products. The BFS process functions similarly to conv...
1537. ...ive. In addition to that, BFS containers are lighter than glass containers, and shatterproof, which eases their transport. Due to the single-dose nature of BFS containers, they are more convenient to **use** for patients. BFS technology assures high levels of sterility, especially compared against conventional filling, which is mainly achieved by the absence of human contact/interventions – a major sourc...
1538. ...not be possible. It follows, therefore, that the design, development and quality assurance of such an instrument must be given the utmost attention. The ICH guidelines on good clinical practice (GCP) **use** the term ‘case report form’ (CRF) to refer to these systems. No matter what CRF is utilized, the quality and integrity of the data is of primary importance.  Rebound effect The rebound effect, or reb...
1539. ...severity of the symptoms is often worse than pretreatment levels. Rebound insomnia is insomnia that occurs following discontinuation of sedative substances taken to relieve primary insomnia. Regular **use** of these substances can cause a person to become dependent on its effects in order to fall asleep. Therefore, when a person has stopped taking the medication and is 'rebounding' from its effects, the...
1540. ...plementary pose of docking the target and the ligand molecules. Another approach is to describe the hydrophobic features of the protein using turns in the main-chain atoms. Yet another approach is to **use** a Fourier shape descriptor technique. Whereas the shape complementarity based approaches are typically fast and robust, they cannot usually model the movements or dynamic changes in the ligand/protei...
1541. ...e out whether they can bind at the protein's active site, and are usually scalable to even protein-protein interactions. They are also much more amenable to pharmacophore based approaches, since they **use** geometric descriptions of the ligands to find optimal binding. Simulating the docking process is much more complicated. In this approach, the protein and the ligand are separated by some physical dis...
1542. ...the system's total energy is calculated after every move. The obvious advantage of docking simulation is that ligand flexibility is easily incorporated, whereas shape complementarity techniques must **use** ingenious methods to incorporate flexibility in ligands. Also, it more accurately models reality, whereas shape complementary techniques are more of an abstraction. Clearly, simulation is computation...
1543. ...ist in an ensemble of conformational states) and all possible rotational and translational orientations of the ligand relative to the protein at a given level of granularity. Most docking programs in **use** account for the whole conformational space of the ligand (flexible ligand), and several attempt to model a flexible protein receptor. Each "snapshot" of the pair is referred to as a pose. A variety o...
1544. ...ds were developed to allow for efficient modeling of flexibility of peptides during protein-peptide docking. Computational capacity has increased dramatically over the last decade making possible the **use** of more sophisticated and computationally intensive methods in computer-assisted drug design. However, dealing with receptor flexibility in docking methodologies is still a thorny issue. The main rea...
1545. ...receptor to form a single complex and free energy due to changes in vibrational modes. A low (negative) energy indicates a stable system and thus a likely binding interaction. Alternative approaches **use** modified scoring functions to include constraints based on known key protein-ligand interactions, or knowledge-based potentials derived from interactions observed in large databases of protein-ligand...
1546. ...o Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Clinical studies are most often conducted to support a PMA. Only a small percentage of 510(k)'s require clinical data to support the application. Investigational **use** also includes clinical evaluation of certain modifications or new intended uses of legally marketed devices. All clinical evaluations of investigational devices, unless exempt, must have an approved...
1547. ...anticipated benefits to subjects and the importance of the knowledge to be gained, that the investigation is scientifically sound, and that there is reason to believe that the device as proposed for **use** will be effective. Qualified person (European Union) Under European Union (EU) law, the qualified person (QP) is responsible for certifying that each batch of a medicinal product meets all required p...
1548. ...ears' experience working in pharmaceutical manufacturing operations, and has passed examinations attesting to his or her knowledge.  The requirement for QP oversight has been extended to material for **use** in clinical trials since the introduction of EU Directive 2001/20/EC. In countries that are part of the Pharmaceutical Inspection Convention and Pharmaceutical Inspection Co-operation Scheme (PIC/S),...
1549. ...act electronics cooling, cryogen tanks, PCM heat exchangers), energy absorption, flow diffusion, scrubbers, flame arrestors, and lightweight optics. The high cost of the material generally limits its **use** to advanced technology, aerospace, and manufacturing. Fine-scale open-cell foams, with cells smaller than can be seen unaided, are used as high-temperature filters in the chemical industry. Metal foa...
1550. ...seen unaided, are used as high-temperature filters in the chemical industry. Metal foams are used in compact heat exchangers to increase heat transfer at the cost of reduced pressure. However, their **use** permits substantial reduction in physical size and fabrication costs. Most models of these materials use idealized and periodic structures or averaged macroscopic properties. Metal sponge has very la...
1551. ...pact heat exchangers to increase heat transfer at the cost of reduced pressure. However, their use permits substantial reduction in physical size and fabrication costs. Most models of these materials **use** idealized and periodic structures or averaged macroscopic properties. Metal sponge has very large surface area per unit weight and catalysts are often formed into metal sponge, such as palladium blac...
1552. ...sky named Triumph received foam metal prostheses. Mammalian studies showed that porous metals, such as titanium foam, may allow vascularization within the porous area. Orthopedic device manufacturers **use** foam construction or metal foam coatings to achieve desired levels of osseointegration. The primary functions of metallic foams in vehicles are to increase sound damping, reduce weight, increase ener...
1553. ...mperature variation. However, they are heavier, more expensive, and non-insulating. Metal foam technology has been applied to automotive exhaust gas. Compared to traditional catalytic converters that **use** cordierite ceramic as substrate, metal foam substrate offers better heat transfer and exhibits excellent mass-transport properties (high turbulence) and may reduce the quantity of platinum catalyst r...
1554. ...n of the national pharmacopeia, other drug and medical device standards and classification system, and supervise their implementation; develop good practices on research, production, distribution and **use** of drugs and medical devices, and supervise their implementation; undertake drug and medical device registration, supervision and inspection; establish monitoring system for adverse drug reactions, a...
1555. ...al devices, biologicals and certain other therapeutic goods). Therapeutic goods include goods that are represented to have a therapeutic effect, are included in a class of goods the sole or principal **use** of which is (or ordinarily is) a therapeutic use, or are otherwise determined to be a therapeutic good through a legislative instrument under the "Therapeutic Goods Act 1989." Goods that are therapeu...
1556. ...utic goods). Therapeutic goods include goods that are represented to have a therapeutic effect, are included in a class of goods the sole or principal use of which is (or ordinarily is) a therapeutic **use**, or are otherwise determined to be a therapeutic good through a legislative instrument under the "Therapeutic Goods Act 1989." Goods that are therapeutic goods must be entered on the Australian Regis...
1557. ...ticipate in the now defunct, Council of Australian Governments Health Council. On 25 January 2021, the TGA provisionally approved the two-dose Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, named "COMIRNATY", for **use** within Australia. The provisional approval only recommends the vaccine for patients over the age of 16, pending ongoing submission of clinical data from the vaccine sponsors (the manufacturers, Pfize...
1558. ...rs old. On 5 December 2021, the TGA provisionally approved the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine access for five to 11-year-olds. On 16 February 2021, the Oxford–AstraZeneca vaccine was approved by the TGA for **use** in Australia. The administration of this vaccine was scheduled to start in March. Two weeks later, on 28 February, the first shipment of the vaccine, around 300,000 doses, arrived at Sydney for rollo...
1559. ...ng Pfizer and Moderna booster vaccines for individuals approved months ago. On 25 June 2021, provisional approval was given by the TGA to the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine, the third vaccine for potential **use** in Australia. Strict conditions were imposed on Janssen which includes further investigation documents related to the efficacy, long term effects and safety concerns that must be provided regularly t...
1560. ...of those medications. As a result, the company grew rapidly and in 2015 was the most valuable company in Canada. Valeant was involved in a number of controversies surrounding drug price hikes and the **use** of a specialty pharmacy for the distribution of its drugs. This led to an investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, causing its stock price to plummet more than 90 percent from it...
1561. ...al is first recorded. This data is usually later entered in the case report form. The International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** (ICH-GCP) guidelines define source documents as "original documents, data, and records." Source documents contain source data, which is defined as "all information in original records and certified c...
1562. ...ead of cajuput oil. Albularyo Albularyo or albulario is a Filipino term for a witch doctor, folk healer or medicine man, derived from Spanish "herbolario" (herbalist). They practice folk medicine and **use** medicinal plants in their trade. An albularyo is a "folk doctor" commonly found in the more rural areas of the Philippines who heals people using herbs and traditional practices such as hilot or "mas...
1563. ...k medicine, the albularyo is also alleged to practice black magic and curse people. The albularyos practice their trade using prayers called "orasyon" (from Spanish "oracion"), and rituals. They also **use** concoctions made from plant parts such as leaves, bark, roots and oils such as coconut oils. "Pangalap" is the process of searching for these medicinal plants and "pabukal" is the preparation of deco...
1564. ...s leaves, bark, roots and oils such as coconut oils. "Pangalap" is the process of searching for these medicinal plants and "pabukal" is the preparation of decoctions from said plants. Albularyos also **use** their own saliva and pieces of papers with writings. The albularyo use "tawas" (alum) crystals to find out who is causing the ailments in their patients." The may also use candle wax poured in water,...
1565. ...process of searching for these medicinal plants and "pabukal" is the preparation of decoctions from said plants. Albularyos also use their own saliva and pieces of papers with writings. The albularyo **use** "tawas" (alum) crystals to find out who is causing the ailments in their patients." The may also use candle wax poured in water, eggs, or spirits to divine the cause of the ailments. Some ailments ar...
1566. ...aid plants. Albularyos also use their own saliva and pieces of papers with writings. The albularyo use "tawas" (alum) crystals to find out who is causing the ailments in their patients." The may also **use** candle wax poured in water, eggs, or spirits to divine the cause of the ailments. Some ailments are claimed to be the work of "lamang lupa" who were unknowingly or knowingly harmed by the patient. Th...
1567. ...water, eggs, or spirits to divine the cause of the ailments. Some ailments are claimed to be the work of "lamang lupa" who were unknowingly or knowingly harmed by the patient. The albularyo may then **use** rituals and prayers to drive away the spirit and therefore remove the sickness from the patient. Foaming agent A foaming agent is a material such as a surfactant or a blowing agent that facilitates t...
1568. ...is taken by mouth or by injection into a vein. Common side effects include nausea and bone marrow suppression. Other severe side effects may include anaphylaxis and the development of other cancers. **Use** during pregnancy may result in harm to the fetus. Melphalan belongs to the class of nitrogen mustard alkylating agents. It works by interfering with the creation of DNA and RNA. Melphalan was approve...
1569. ...ncy may result in harm to the fetus. Melphalan belongs to the class of nitrogen mustard alkylating agents. It works by interfering with the creation of DNA and RNA. Melphalan was approved for medical **use** in the United States in 1964. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. It is available as a generic medication. In the European Union, melphalan is indicated for the trea...
1570. ...rus oxychloride provided the bischloride, and removal of the protecting groups by heating in hydrochloric acid gave melphalan (3). On 17 September 2020, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human **Use** (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for melphalan. The applicant for this medicinal product is Adienne S.r...
1571. ...A) adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for melphalan. The applicant for this medicinal product is Adienne S.r.l. S.U. Melphalan was approved for medical **use** in the European Union in November 2020. Norethisterone acetate Norethisterone acetate (NETA), also known as norethindrone acetate and sold under the brand name Primolut-Nor among others, is a progest...
1572. ...s weak androgenic and estrogenic activity and no other important hormonal activity. The medication is a prodrug of norethisterone in the body. NETA was patented in 1957 and was introduced for medical **use** in 1964. It is sometimes referred to as a "first-generation" progestin. NETA is marketed widely throughout the world. It is available as a generic medication. NETA is used as a hormonal contraceptive...
1573. ...t of gynecological disorders such as abnormal uterine bleeding, and as a component of menopausal hormone therapy for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. NETA is available in the form of tablets for **use** by mouth both alone and in combination with estrogens including estradiol, estradiol valerate, and ethinylestradiol. Transdermal patches providing a combination of 50 μg/day estradiol and 0.14 or 0.2...
1574. ...stradiol. Transdermal patches providing a combination of 50 μg/day estradiol and 0.14 or 0.25 mg/day NETA are available under the brand names CombiPatch and Estalis. NETA was previously available for **use** by intramuscular injection in the form of ampoules containing 20 mg NETA, 5 mg estradiol benzoate, 8 mg estradiol valerate, and 180 mg testosterone enanthate in oil solution under the brand name Abla...
1575. ..., it is available under a large number of brand names at much lower dosages (0.1 to 1 mg) in combination with estrogens such as ethinylestradiol and estradiol as a combined oral contraceptive and for **use** in menopausal hormone therapy for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. NETA has been studied for use as a potential male hormonal contraceptive in combination with testosterone in men. Standard for...
1576. ...on with estrogens such as ethinylestradiol and estradiol as a combined oral contraceptive and for use in menopausal hormone therapy for the treatment of menopausal symptoms. NETA has been studied for **use** as a potential male hormonal contraceptive in combination with testosterone in men. Standard for the Uniform Scheduling of Medicines and Poisons The Standard for the Uniform Scheduling of Medicines a...
1577. ...e 1 is blank. Schedule 1 does not currently contain any medicines or poisons. Schedule 2 (S2) drugs and poisons, otherwise known as Pharmacy Medicines, are substances and preparations for therapeutic **use** that – Examples: The SUSMP March 2018 defines a Schedule 2 substance as "Substances, the safe use of which may require advice from a pharmacist and which should be available from a pharmacy or, where...
1578. ...s and poisons, otherwise known as Pharmacy Medicines, are substances and preparations for therapeutic use that – Examples: The SUSMP March 2018 defines a Schedule 2 substance as "Substances, the safe **use** of which may require advice from a pharmacist and which should be available from a pharmacy or, where a pharmacy service is not available, from a licensed person." The location of these medications i...
1579. ...ation of these medications in the pharmacy varies from state to state. Schedule 3 (S3) drugs and poisons, otherwise known as Pharmacist Only Medicines, are substances and preparations for therapeutic **use** that – Some states have subsets of Schedule 3 with additional requirements (see below). Only some Schedule 3 medicines may be advertised to the public. Examples: Schedule 4 (S4) drugs and poisons, ot...
1580. ...me Schedule 3 medicines may be advertised to the public. Examples: Schedule 4 (S4) drugs and poisons, otherwise known as "prescription only medicines", are substances and preparations for therapeutic **use** that – The price of many Schedule 4 substances are subsidized by the Australian Government through the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS), when prescribed by an authorised prescriber. Certain medic...
1581. ...rning labels to display that these poisons: Examples: Some of the above examples are subject to exceptions dependant on the specific preparation, concentration, or inclusion in other schedules.  Must **use** distinctive packaging and strong warnings to display the potential for: Examples: Some of the above examples are subject to exceptions dependant on the specific preparation, concentration, or inclusi...
1582. ...ration, or inclusion in other schedules. Schedule 8 (S8) drugs and poisons, otherwise known as Controlled Drugs, are schedule 9 prohibited substances that are appropriate preparations for therapeutic **use** which have high potential for abuse and addiction. The possession of these medications without authority is the same as carrying a prohibited substance and is illegal. Like schedule 4 substances, the...
1583. ...d be referred to a specialist for assessment. Examples: Schedule 9 (S9) drugs and poisons are substances and preparations that, by law, may only be used for research purposes. The sale, distribution, **use**, and manufacture of such substances without a permit is strictly prohibited by law. Permits for research uses on humans must be approved by a recognised ethics committee on human research. Examples:...
1584. ...rch. Examples: Schedule 10 was known as Appendix C until the introduction of the "Poisons Standard 2015". It includes substances of such danger to health as to warrant prohibition of sale, supply and **use**. To clarify, the listed substances are not necessarily prohibited completely. Rather, it depends on the concentration of the substance and its associated risk for harm. To illustrate, diethylene glyc...
1585. ...have a Notice of Compliance and a DIN in order to be marketed in Canada. A DIN lets the user know that the product has undergone and passed a review of its formulation, labeling, and instructions for **use**. A drug product sold in Canada without a DIN is not in compliance with Canadian law, with limited exceptions, such as foreign drug products imported under emergency authorization. The DIN is also a t...
1586. ...f its simplicity, Haber's rule continued to be widely used. Recently, some researchers have argued that it is time to move beyond the simple relationship expressed by Haber's rule and to make regular **use** of more sophisticated models. Cold chain A cold chain is a supply chain that uses refrigeration to maintain perishable goods, such as pharmaceuticals, produce or other goods that are temperature-sens...
1587. ...desired low-temperature interval to keep the safety and quality of perishable or sensitive products. Unlike other goods or merchandise, cold chain goods are perishable and always en-route towards end **use** or destination. Adequate cold storage, in particular, can be crucial to prevent food loss and waste. Mobile refrigeration with ice from the ice trade began with reefer ships and refrigerator cars (ic...
1588. ...82 at St Katharine Docks. It could hold 59,000 carcasses, and by 1911 cold storage capacity in London had reached 2.84 million carcasses. By 1930 about a thousand refrigerated meat containers were in **use** which could be switched from road to railway. Mobile mechanical refrigeration was invented by Frederick McKinley Jones, who co-founded Thermo King with entrepreneur Joseph A. "Joe" Numero. In 1938 Nu...
1589. ...over a 1937 golf game by associates of Numero's, Werner Transportation Co. president Harry Werner, and United States Air Conditioning Co. president Al Fineberg, This technology has been frequently in **use** since the 1950s, when it was most often used for preserving animal-based cells or tissue. As medical breakthroughs, such as in cancer treatment, have taken place, the demand for cold chain systems ha...
1590. ...other medicines, such as opiates. Within these classes, some pumps are designed to be portable, others are designed to be used in a hospital, and there are special systems for charity and battlefield **use**. Large-volume pumps usually use some form of peristaltic pump. Classically, they use computer-controlled rollers compressing a silicone-rubber tube through which the medicine flows. Another common fo...
1591. .... Within these classes, some pumps are designed to be portable, others are designed to be used in a hospital, and there are special systems for charity and battlefield use. Large-volume pumps usually **use** some form of peristaltic pump. Classically, they use computer-controlled rollers compressing a silicone-rubber tube through which the medicine flows. Another common form is a set of fingers that pres...
1592. ...portable, others are designed to be used in a hospital, and there are special systems for charity and battlefield use. Large-volume pumps usually use some form of peristaltic pump. Classically, they **use** computer-controlled rollers compressing a silicone-rubber tube through which the medicine flows. Another common form is a set of fingers that press on the tube in sequence. Small-volume pumps usually...
1593. ...computer-controlled rollers compressing a silicone-rubber tube through which the medicine flows. Another common form is a set of fingers that press on the tube in sequence. Small-volume pumps usually **use** a computer-controlled motor turning a screw that pushes the plunger on a syringe. The classic medical improvisation for an infusion pump is to place a blood pressure cuff around a bag of fluid. The b...
1594. ...the needed pressure varies with the administration route, potentially causing risk when attempted by an individual not trained in this method. Places that must provide the least-expensive care often **use** pressurized infusion systems. One common system has a purpose-designed plastic "pressure bottle" pressurized with a large disposable plastic syringe. A combined flow restrictor, air filter and drip c...
1595. ...and leave in the patients' lungs. The air filter is just a membrane that passes gas but not fluid or pathogens. When a large air bubble reaches it, it bleeds off. Some of the smallest infusion pumps **use** osmotic power. Basically, a bag of salt solution absorbs water through a membrane, swelling its volume. The bag presses medicine out. The rate is precisely controlled by the salt concentrations and p...
1596. ...the oil phase and the hydrophilic head groups in the aqueous phase. Microemulsions have many commercially important uses: Much of the work done on these systems have been motivated by their possible **use** to mobilize petroleum trapped in porous sandstone for enhanced oil recovery. A fundamental reason for the uses of these systems is that a microemulsion phase sometimes has an ultralow interfacial ten...
1597. ...ually characterized by constructing ternary-phase diagrams. Three components are the basic requirement to form a microemulsion: two immiscible liquids and a surfactant. The majority of microemulsions **use** oil and water as immiscible liquid pairs. If a cosurfactant is used, it may sometimes be represented at a fixed ratio to surfactant as a single component, and treated as a single "pseudo-component"....
1598. ...ding biopharmaceuticals varies between groups and entities, with different terms referring to different subsets of therapeutics within the general biopharmaceutical category. Some regulatory agencies **use** the terms "biological medicinal products" or therapeutic biological product to refer specifically to engineered macromolecular products like protein- and nucleic acid-based drugs, distinguishing them...
1599. ...cent classification of pharmaceuticals, are high-cost drugs that are often biologics. The European Medicines Agency uses the term "advanced therapy medicinal products" (ATMPs) for medicines for human **use** that are "based on genes, cells, or tissue engineering", including gene therapy medicines, somatic-cell therapy medicines, tissue-engineered medicines, and combinations thereof. Within EMA contexts,...
1600. ...iety of medical conditions for which no other treatments are available. Building on the market approvals and sales of recombinant virus-based biopharmaceuticals for veterinary and human medicine, the **use** of engineered plant viruses has been proposed to enhance crop performance and promote sustainable production. In some jurisdictions, biologics are regulated via different pathways from other small mo...
1601. ..., psoriatic arthritis, or ankylosing spondylitis are at increased risk for life-threatening infection, adverse cardiovascular events, and malignancy. The first such substance approved for therapeutic **use** was biosynthetic "human" insulin made via recombinant DNA. Sometimes referred to as rHI, under the trade name Humulin, was developed by Genentech, but licensed to Eli Lilly and Company, who manufactu...
1602. ...of a transgenic mammal that can produce the biopharmaceutical in its milk, blood, or urine. Once an animal is produced, typically using the pronuclear microinjection method, it becomes efficacious to **use** cloning technology to create additional offspring that carry the favorable modified genome. The first such drug manufactured from the milk of a genetically modified goat was ATryn, but marketing perm...
1603. ...diately after fabrication, to avoid damage to the structure that results due to the stresses of the capillary effect of the aqueous solution. One method of introducing pores in silicon is through the **use** of an anodization cell. A possible anodization cell is made of Teflon and employs a platinum cathode and a crystalline Si wafer anode immersed in hydrogen fluoride (HF) electrolyte. Recently, inert d...
1604. ...ates on porous silicon can be fabricated and used in lab-on-a-chip, microfluidic devices for the improved surface-based bioanalysis. Industrial fermentation Industrial fermentation is the intentional **use** of fermentation in manufacturing processes. In addition to the mass production of fermented foods and drinks, industrial fermentation has widespread applications in chemical industry. Commodity chemi...
1605. ...le. It is generally not possible to take fermentation conditions that have worked in the laboratory and blindly apply them to industrial scale equipment. Although many parameters have been tested for **use** as scale up criteria, there is no general formula because of the variation in fermentation processes. The most important methods are the maintenance of constant power consumption per unit of broth an...
1606. ...ction of ethanol, inexpensive sources of carbohydrates, such as molasses, corn steep liquor, sugar cane juice, or sugar beet juice are used to minimize costs. More sensitive fermentations may instead **use** purified glucose, sucrose, glycerol or other sugars, which reduces variation and helps ensure the purity of the final product. Organisms meant to produce enzymes such as beta galactosidase, invertase...
1607. ...ccumulating, antifoaming agents may be added. Mineral buffering salts, such as carbonates and phosphates, may be used to stabilize pH near optimum. When metal ions are present in high concentrations, **use** of a chelating agent may be necessary. Developing an optimal medium for fermentation is a key concept to efficient optimization. One-factor-at-a-time (OFAT) is the preferential choice that researcher...
1608. ...f a chelating agent may be necessary. Developing an optimal medium for fermentation is a key concept to efficient optimization. One-factor-at-a-time (OFAT) is the preferential choice that researchers **use** for designing a medium composition. This method involves changing only one factor at a time while keeping the other concentrations constant. This method can be separated into some sub groups. One is...
1609. ...de in "E. coli"; by 2004 more biopharmaceuticals were manufactured in eukaryotic cells, such as CHO cells, than in microbes, but used similar bioreactor systems. Insect cell culture systems came into **use** in the 2000s as well. Of primary interest among the intracellular components are microbial enzymes: catalase, amylase, protease, pectinase, cellulase, hemicellulase, lipase, lactase, streptokinase an...
1610. ...ducing space needed for dumping. The main disadvantage of bacterial digestion in sewage disposal is that it is a very slow process. A wide variety of agroindustrial waste products can be fermented to **use** as food for animals, especially ruminants. Fungi have been employed to break down cellulosic wastes to increase protein content and improve "in vitro" digestibility. Precision fermentation is an appr...
1611. ...or cell culture media, providing for serum-free cell culture media in the manufacturing process of cultured meat. A 2021 publication showed that photovoltaic-driven microbial protein production could **use** 10 times less land for an equivalent amount of protein compared to soybean cultivation. BUKO Pharma-Kampagne BUKO Pharma-Kampagne is an independent organization based in Bielefeld, Germany, which wat...
1612. ...separation or purification of biological products, but at different scales of operation and for different purposes. Downstream processing implies manufacture of a purified product fit for a specific **use**, generally in marketable quantities, while analytical bioseparation refers to purification for the sole purpose of measuring a component or components of a mixture, and may deal with sample sizes as...
1613. ...uct in a form that is stable, easily transportable and convenient. Crystallization, desiccation, lyophilization and spray drying are typical unit operations. Depending on the product and its intended **use**, polishing may also include operations to sterilize the product and remove or deactivate trace contaminants which might compromise product safety. Such operations might include the removal of viruses...
1614. ...ize via the same mechanism as organometallic photosensitizers and organic photosensitizers, but their nanoscale properties allow for greater control in distinctive aspects. Some key advantages to the **use** of quantum dots as photosensitizers includes their small, tunable band gap which allows for efficient transitions to the triplet state, and their insolubility in many solvents which allows for easy r...
1615. ...odynamic therapy), destroy the cancer cells. In 1972, scientists discovered that chlorophyll could absorb sunlight and transfer energy into electrochemical cells. This discovery eventually led to the **use** of photosensitizers as sunlight-harvesting materials in solar cells, mainly through the use of photosensitizer dyes. Dye Sensitized Solar cells utilize these photosensitizer dyes to absorb photons fr...
1616. ...could absorb sunlight and transfer energy into electrochemical cells. This discovery eventually led to the use of photosensitizers as sunlight-harvesting materials in solar cells, mainly through the **use** of photosensitizer dyes. Dye Sensitized Solar cells utilize these photosensitizer dyes to absorb photons from solar light and transfer energy rich electrons to the neighboring semiconductor material...
1617. ...atory skin conditions in animals and have been observed to slightly reduce the minimum tanning dose in humans. Some examples of photosensitizing medications (both investigatory and approved for human **use**) are: Test data exclusivity Test data exclusivity refers to protection of clinical trial data required to be submitted to a regulatory agency to prove safety and efficacy of a new drug, and preventio...
1618. ...nistrative purposes. In 2020, the average monthly Part D premium across all plans was $27. Premiums for stand-alone PDPs are 3 times higher than premiums for MA-PDs, as Medicare Advantage plans often **use** federal rebates to reduce premiums for drug coverage. Enrollees typically pay their premiums directly to plans, though they may opt to have their premiums automatically deducted from their Social Sec...
1619. ...s in average drug utilization and decreases in average out-of-pocket expenditures. Further studies by the same group of researchers found that the net impact among beneficiaries was a decrease in the **use** of generic drugs. A further study concludes that although a substantial reduction in out-of-pocket costs and a moderate increase in utilization among Medicare beneficiaries during the first year afte...
1620. ...l reduction in out-of-pocket costs and a moderate increase in utilization among Medicare beneficiaries during the first year after Part D, there was no evidence of improvement in emergency department **use**, hospitalizations, or preference-based health utility for those eligible for Part D during its first year of implementation. It was also found that there were no significant changes in trends in the...
1621. ...the mid-to-late 19th century as a part of a larger interest in the culture of fish and oysters. Leech culture was seen as a solution to growing demand for medicinal leeches throughout the world. The **use** of leeches for medicinal purposes, or hirudotherapy, has been revived by contemporary medicine. Insulin shock therapy Insulin shock therapy or insulin coma therapy was a form of psychiatric treatment...
1622. ...onvulsive therapies are collectively known as the shock therapies. In 1927, Sakel, who had recently qualified as a medical doctor in Vienna and was working in a psychiatric clinic in Berlin, began to **use** low (sub-coma) doses of insulin to treat drug addicts and psychopaths, and when one of the patients experienced improved mental clarity after having slipped into an accidental coma, Sakel reasoned th...
1623. ...psychiatrists from the Board of Control visited Vienna in 1935 and 1936, and by 1938, 31 hospitals in England and Wales had insulin treatment units. In 1936, Sakel moved to New York and promoted the **use** of insulin coma treatment in US psychiatric hospitals. By the late 1940s, the majority of psychiatric hospitals in the US were using insulin coma treatment. Insulin coma therapy was a labour-intensiv...
1624. ...article to the Journal of Mental Science; after a 12-month delay, the Journal informed Bourne they had rejected the article, telling him to "get more experience". In 1957, when insulin coma treatment **use** was declining, "The Lancet" published the results of a randomized, controlled trial where patients were either given insulin coma treatment or identical treatment but with unconsciousness produced by...
1625. ...ovided a personal approach to the schizophrenic, suitably disguised as a physical treatment so as to slip past the prejudices of the age." By the 1970s, insulin shock therapy had mostly fallen out of **use** in the United States, though was still practiced in some hospitals. Its use may have continued longer in China, India, and the Soviet Union. Recent articles about insulin coma treatment have attempte...
1626. ...sical treatment so as to slip past the prejudices of the age." By the 1970s, insulin shock therapy had mostly fallen out of use in the United States, though was still practiced in some hospitals. Its **use** may have continued longer in China, India, and the Soviet Union. Recent articles about insulin coma treatment have attempted to explain why it was given such uncritical acceptance. In the US, Deborah...
1627. ...He envisioned insulin coma treatment as a weak form of convulsive therapy. In the UK, psychiatrist Kingsley Jones sees the support of the Board of Control as important in persuading psychiatrists to **use** insulin coma therapy. The treatment then acquired the privileged status of a standard procedure, protected by professional organizational interests. He also notes that it has been suggested that the...
1628. ...ibing and pharmacology. It contains a wide range of information and advice on prescribing for children - from newborn to adolescence.  The entries are classified by group of drug, giving cautions for **use**, side effects, indications and dose for most of the drugs available for children in the UK National Health Service. It also includes information on the unlicensed uses of certain drugs. Though publis...
1629. ...products with cash after weighing the costs and profits, and the market risks lie with the wholesalers. Under this mode, the pharmacy enterprise search for its national or regional general agent and **use** the agent's market network to sell its products. Such kind of distribution mode can be called "the regional general agent mode." The pharmacy enterprise usually entrusts its general agent with the sa...
1630. ...ng Group, an IT company that had invested a total of US$363 million into pharmaceuticals and healthcare. Guangzhou Bai Yun Shan Pharmaceutical Manufactory earmarked US$12 million to start an external-**use** medicine project, which was in addition to its US$48 million antibiotics project. To date, the Chinese domestic pharmaceutical industry has invested very little in the research and development of new...
1631. ...sion of many previously isolated fields which have met at the core of psychiatric medicine, and engages a broad range of professionals from psychiatrists to researchers in genetics and chemistry. The **use** of the term has gained popularity since 1990 with the founding of several journals and institutions such as the "Hungarian College of Neuropsychopharmacology". This rapidly maturing field shows some...
1632. ...a purer sense. The inception of many classes of drugs is in principle straightforward: any chemical that can enhance or diminish the action of a target protein could be investigated further for such **use**. The trick is to find such a chemical that is receptor-specific (cf. "dirty drug") and safe to consume. The 2005 "Physicians' Desk Reference" lists twice the number of prescription drugs as the 1990...
1633. ...pocampal and other neurons. The "hallucinogen persisting perception disorder" (HPPD), also known as "post-psychedelic perception disorder", has been observed in patients as long as 26 years after LSD **use**. The plausible cause of HPPD is damage to the inhibitory GABA circuit in the visual pathway (GABA agonists such as midazolam can decrease some effects of LSD intoxication). The damage may be the resu...
1634. ...t of an excitotoxic response of 5HT interneurons. [Note: the vast majority of LSD users do not experience HPPD. Its manifestation may be equally dependent on individual brain chemistry as on the drug **use** itself.] As for MDMA, aside from persistent losses of 5HT and SERT, long-lasting reduction of serotonergic axons and terminals is found from short-term use, and regrowth may be of compromised functio...
1635. ...n individual brain chemistry as on the drug use itself.] As for MDMA, aside from persistent losses of 5HT and SERT, long-lasting reduction of serotonergic axons and terminals is found from short-term **use**, and regrowth may be of compromised function. Many functions of the brain are somewhat localized to associated areas like motor and speech ability. Functional associations of brain anatomy are now be...
1636. ...timuli to be encoded as cues that the brain is about to receive a reward. This happens via the selective release of dopamine, a neurotransmitter responsible for feelings of euphoria and pleasure. The **use** of dopaminergic drugs alters the amount of dopamine released throughout the mesolimbic system, and regular or excessive use of the drug can result in a long-term downregulation of dopamine signaling,...
1637. ..., a neurotransmitter responsible for feelings of euphoria and pleasure. The use of dopaminergic drugs alters the amount of dopamine released throughout the mesolimbic system, and regular or excessive **use** of the drug can result in a long-term downregulation of dopamine signaling, even after an individual stops ingesting the drug. This can lead the individual to engage in mild to extreme drug-seeking b...
1638. ...ns or degree of response to a drug or their tendency to develop addictions in the future. These findings are important because they provide detailed insight into the neural circuitry involved in drug **use** and help refine old as well as develop new treatment methods for disorders or addictions. Different treatment-related studies are investigating the potential role of peptide nucleic acids in treating...
1639. ...d diarrhea, among others.  The powder was largely used in domestic practice to induce sweating, to defeat the advance of a common cold, and at the beginning of any attack of fever. It is no longer in **use** in modern medicine, but remained reputable until about the 1930s. Its inclusion of opium, an addictive chemical, led to its discontinuation of use. Dover's powder was banned in India in 1994. A 1958...
1640. ...beginning of any attack of fever. It is no longer in use in modern medicine, but remained reputable until about the 1930s. Its inclusion of opium, an addictive chemical, led to its discontinuation of **use**. Dover's powder was banned in India in 1994. A 1958 source describes Dover's Powder as follows: "Powder of Ipecacuanha and Opium ("B.P.", "Egyp. P.", "Ind. P."). Pulv. Ipecac. et Opii; Ipecac and Opi...
1641. ...m sulphate or with equal parts of potassium nitrate and potassium sulphate in place of lactose; "max. single dose" 1 to 1.5 g. and max. in 24 hours 4 to 6 g." To obtain the greatest benefits from its **use** as a sudorific, it was recommended that copious drafts of some warm and harmless drink be ingested after the use of the powder. The following excerpt from a report penned by a Doctor Sharp, employed...
1642. ..." 1 to 1.5 g. and max. in 24 hours 4 to 6 g." To obtain the greatest benefits from its use as a sudorific, it was recommended that copious drafts of some warm and harmless drink be ingested after the **use** of the powder. The following excerpt from a report penned by a Doctor Sharp, employed in the British naval service in the West Indies, in this case, in Trinidad, in 1818, illustrates its use. He writ...
1643. ...fter the use of the powder. The following excerpt from a report penned by a Doctor Sharp, employed in the British naval service in the West Indies, in this case, in Trinidad, in 1818, illustrates its **use**. He writes :  At this period, thirty cases of acute dysentery also occurred amongst them and although nineteen of the number were men who arrived in the island from Europe on the 1st and 12th of June...
1644. ...ymptoms even in them were equally as mild as in the assimilated soldier, and the disease yielded to the common remedies – viz – bleeding when the state of the vascular system appeared to indicate the **use** of it, but in general, saline purgatives in small and repeated quantities were only necessary with small doses at bed time, of calomel and opium, infusion of ipecacuanha or Dover’s powder, and this w...
1645. ...l, saline purgatives in small and repeated quantities were only necessary with small doses at bed time, of calomel and opium, infusion of ipecacuanha or Dover’s powder, and this with tonics, moderate **use** of port wine and a light farinaceous diet generally and speedily accomplished a perfect case.It was an ingredient in John Wyeth & Brother, Inc.'s La Grippe (flu) pills, circa 1906. Dover's powder was...
1646. ...an illness, but she could not rest until she took some of the starch morphia. Busulfan Busulfan (Myleran, GlaxoSmithKline, Busulfex IV, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, Inc.) is a chemotherapy drug in **use** since 1959. It is a cell cycle non-specific alkylating antineoplastic agent, in the class of alkyl sulfonates. Its chemical designation is 1,4-butanediol dimethanesulfonate. Busulfan was approved by...
1647. ...leukemia (CML) in 1999. Busulfan was the mainstay of the chemotherapeutic treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) until it was displaced by the new gold standard, imatinib, though it is still in **use** to a degree as a result of the drug's relative low cost. Busulfan is used in pediatrics and adults in combination with cyclophosphamide or fludarabine/clofarabine as a conditioning agent prior to bon...
1648. ...ied as an intravenous solution with 6 mg/ml busulfan. Busulfex has proved equally effective as oral busulfan, with presumedly less toxic side effects. Pharmacokinetic and dynamic studies support this **use**, that has prompted its usage in transplantation regimes, particularly in frail patients. Fludarabine + busulfan is a typical example of this use. Toxicity may include interstitial pulmonary fibrosis...
1649. ...ects. Pharmacokinetic and dynamic studies support this use, that has prompted its usage in transplantation regimes, particularly in frail patients. Fludarabine + busulfan is a typical example of this **use**. Toxicity may include interstitial pulmonary fibrosis ("busulfan lung"), hyperpigmentation, seizures, hepatic (veno-occlusive disease) (VOD) or sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS), emesis, and wast...
1650. ...conjugation in the liver to inactive metabolites. Itraconazole can decrease busulfan clearance by up to 25%, resulting in AUC levels >1500 micromolxmin and increased risk of hepatic VOD. Concomitant **use** of acetaminophen within 72 hours of busulfan use can reduce busulfan clearance (resulting in increased busulfan AUC), as acetaminophen is also metabolized via glutathione and may deplete stores. Phen...
1651. .... Itraconazole can decrease busulfan clearance by up to 25%, resulting in AUC levels >1500 micromolxmin and increased risk of hepatic VOD. Concomitant use of acetaminophen within 72 hours of busulfan **use** can reduce busulfan clearance (resulting in increased busulfan AUC), as acetaminophen is also metabolized via glutathione and may deplete stores. Phenytoin increases hepatic clearance of busulfan (re...
1652. ...m. The first CIOMS working group produced a reporting form for adverse drug reactions, which shaped the International Council for Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** (ICH)'s E2B guideline. The International Organization for Standardization (ISO), European Committee for Standardization (CEN), and Health Level Seven International (HL7) used these guidelines in publ...
1653. ...pecific adaptations, text mining approaches designed to identify claims within text may mis-characterize these "hedged" statements as facts. Biomedical text mining applications developed for clinical **use** should ideally reflect the needs and demands of clinicians. This is a concern in environments where clinical decision support is expected to be informative and accurate. A comprehensive overview of t...
1654. ...e. Computational frameworks have been developed to rapidly build tools for biomedical text mining tasks. SwellShark is a framework for biomedical NER that requires no human-labeled data but does make **use** of resources for weak supervision (e.g., UMLS semantic types). The SparkText framework uses Apache Spark data streaming, a NoSQL database, and basic machine learning methods to build predictive model...
1655. ...fluenza. Cough tablets have taken the name lozenge, based on their original shape, a diamond. Lozenges may contain benzocaine, an anaesthetic, or eucalyptus oil. Non-menthol throat lozenges generally **use** either zinc gluconate glycine or pectin as an oral demulcent. Several brands of throat lozenges contain dextromethorphan. Other varieties such as Halls contain menthol, peppermint oil and/or spearmin...
1656. ...able.  The purpose of the throat lozenge is to calm the irritation that may be felt in the throat while swallowing, breathing, or even drinking certain fluids. However, one study found that excessive **use** of menthol cough drops can prolong coughs rather than relieve them. Candies to soothe the throat date back to 1000 BC in Egypt's Twentieth Dynasty, when they were made from honey flavored with citrus...
1657. ...DOPA and hypermobility periods. When an episode sets in, the apomorphine is injected subcutaneously or applied sublingually, and signs subside. It is used an average of three times a day. Some people **use** portable mini-pumps that continuously infuse them with apomorphine, allowing them to stay in the "on" state and using apomorphine as an effective monotherapy. The main and absolute contraindication t...
1658. ...infuse them with apomorphine, allowing them to stay in the "on" state and using apomorphine as an effective monotherapy. The main and absolute contraindication to using apomorphine is the concurrent **use** of adrenergic receptor antagonists; combined, they cause a severe drop in blood pressure and fainting. Alcohol causes an increased frequency of orthostatic hypotension (a sudden drop in blood pressur...
1659. ...compound "apomorphine". Initial interest in the compound was as an emetic, tested and confirmed safe by London doctor Samuel Gee, and for the treatment of stereotypies in farmyard animals. Key to the **use** of apomorphine as a behavioural modifier was the research of Erich Harnack, whose experiments in rabbits (which do not vomit) demonstrated that apomorphine had powerful effects on the activity of rab...
1660. ...death. Apomorphine was one of the earliest used pharmacotherapies for alcoholism. The Keeley Cure (1870s to 1900) contained apomorphine, among other ingredients, but the first medical reports of its **use** for more than pure emesis come from James Tompkins and Charles Douglas. Tompkins reported, after injection of 6.5 mg ("one tenth of a grain"):Douglas saw two purposes for apomorphine:This use of smal...
1661. ...of its use for more than pure emesis come from James Tompkins and Charles Douglas. Tompkins reported, after injection of 6.5 mg ("one tenth of a grain"):Douglas saw two purposes for apomorphine:This **use** of small, continuous doses (1/30th of a grain, or 2.16 mg by Douglas) of apomorphine to reduce alcoholic craving comes some time before Pavlov's discovery and publication of the idea of the "conditio...
1662. ...d low-dose apomorphine as a treatment, describing it as "the most useful single drug in the therapeutics of inebriety". He wrote:He also noted there appeared to be a significant prejudice against the **use** of apomorphine, both from the associations of its name and doctors being reluctant to give hypodermic injections to alcoholics. In the US, the Harrison Narcotics Tax Act made working with any morphin...
1663. ...year later by Arvid Carlsson, for which he would be awarded the Nobel Prize. A. N. Ernst then discovered in 1965 that apomorphine was a powerful stimulant of dopamine receptors. This, along with the **use** of sublingual apomorphine tablets, led to a renewed interest in the use of apomorphine as a treatment for alcoholism. A series of studies of non-emetic apomorphine in the treatment of alcoholism were...
1664. ...rize. A. N. Ernst then discovered in 1965 that apomorphine was a powerful stimulant of dopamine receptors. This, along with the use of sublingual apomorphine tablets, led to a renewed interest in the **use** of apomorphine as a treatment for alcoholism. A series of studies of non-emetic apomorphine in the treatment of alcoholism were published, with mostly positive results. However, there was little clin...
1665. ...reatment for alcoholism. A series of studies of non-emetic apomorphine in the treatment of alcoholism were published, with mostly positive results. However, there was little clinical consequence. The **use** of apomorphine to treat "the shakes" was first suggested by Weil in France in 1884, although seemingly not pursued until 1951. Its clinical use was first reported in 1970 by Cotzias et al., although...
1666. ...ts. However, there was little clinical consequence. The use of apomorphine to treat "the shakes" was first suggested by Weil in France in 1884, although seemingly not pursued until 1951. Its clinical **use** was first reported in 1970 by Cotzias et al., although its emetic properties and short half-life made oral use impractical. A later study found that combining the drug with the antiemetic domperidone...
1667. ...ested by Weil in France in 1884, although seemingly not pursued until 1951. Its clinical use was first reported in 1970 by Cotzias et al., although its emetic properties and short half-life made oral **use** impractical. A later study found that combining the drug with the antiemetic domperidone improved results significantly. The commercialization of apomorphine for Parkinson's disease followed its succ...
1668. ...tical. A later study found that combining the drug with the antiemetic domperidone improved results significantly. The commercialization of apomorphine for Parkinson's disease followed its successful **use** in patients with refractory motor fluctuations using intermittent rescue injections and continuous infusions. Aversion therapy in alcoholism had its roots in Russia in the early 1930s, with early pap...
1669. ...ose and non-aversive methods, which would inspire a positive trial of his method in Switzerland by Dr Harry Feldmann and later scientific testing in the 1970s, some time after his death. However, the **use** of apomorphine in aversion therapy had escaped alcoholism, with its use to treat homosexuality leading to the death of a British Army Captain Billy Clegg Hill in 1962, helping to cement its reputatio...
1670. ...s method in Switzerland by Dr Harry Feldmann and later scientific testing in the 1970s, some time after his death. However, the use of apomorphine in aversion therapy had escaped alcoholism, with its **use** to treat homosexuality leading to the death of a British Army Captain Billy Clegg Hill in 1962, helping to cement its reputation as a dangerous drug used primarily in archaic behavioural therapies. I...
1671. ...s addiction and was back to using opiates within years of his apomorphine "cure". However, he insisted on apomorphine's effectiveness in several works and interviews. There is renewed interest in the **use** of apomorphine to treat addiction, in both smoking cessation and alcoholism. As the drug is known to be reasonably safe for use in humans, it is a viable target for repurposing. Apomorphine has been...
1672. ...eness in several works and interviews. There is renewed interest in the use of apomorphine to treat addiction, in both smoking cessation and alcoholism. As the drug is known to be reasonably safe for **use** in humans, it is a viable target for repurposing. Apomorphine has been researched as a possible treatment for erectile dysfunction and female hypoactive sexual desire disorder, though its efficacy ha...
1673. ...rises the drug, a liquefied gas propellant and, in many cases, stabilizing excipients. The actuator contains the mating discharge nozzle and generally includes a dust cap to prevent contamination. To **use** the inhaler, the patient presses down on the top of the canister, with their thumb supporting the lower portion of the actuator. Actuation of the device releases a single metered dose of the formulat...
1674. ...nhaler that act as a reservoir or holding chamber and reduce the speed at which the aerosol enters the mouth. They serve to hold the medication that is sprayed by the inhaler. This makes it easier to **use** the inhaler and helps ensure that more of the medication gets into the lungs instead of just into the mouth or the air. Proper use of a spacer can make an inhaler more effective in delivering medicin...
1675. ...e medication that is sprayed by the inhaler. This makes it easier to use the inhaler and helps ensure that more of the medication gets into the lungs instead of just into the mouth or the air. Proper **use** of a spacer can make an inhaler more effective in delivering medicine. Spacers can be especially helpful to adults and children who find a regular metered dose inhaler hard to use. People who use cor...
1676. ...or the air. Proper use of a spacer can make an inhaler more effective in delivering medicine. Spacers can be especially helpful to adults and children who find a regular metered dose inhaler hard to **use**. People who use corticosteroid inhalers should use a spacer to prevent getting the medicine in their mouth, where oral yeast infections and dysphonia can occur. The deposition of the content of drug...
1677. ...per use of a spacer can make an inhaler more effective in delivering medicine. Spacers can be especially helpful to adults and children who find a regular metered dose inhaler hard to use. People who **use** corticosteroid inhalers should use a spacer to prevent getting the medicine in their mouth, where oral yeast infections and dysphonia can occur. The deposition of the content of drug formulation on t...
1678. ...aler more effective in delivering medicine. Spacers can be especially helpful to adults and children who find a regular metered dose inhaler hard to use. People who use corticosteroid inhalers should **use** a spacer to prevent getting the medicine in their mouth, where oral yeast infections and dysphonia can occur. The deposition of the content of drug formulation on the canister surface can result in a...
1679. ...he manufacturer and the product, inhalers are sold as a complete unit or the individual canister as a refill prescription. While MDIs are commonly used in the treatment of lung-based disorders, their **use** requires dexterity to complete the required sequential steps to achieve the application of these devices. Incorrect completion of one or more steps in using an MDI can substantially reduce the delive...
1680. ...an MDI can substantially reduce the delivery of the administered medication and, consequently, its effectiveness and safety. Numerous studies have demonstrated that between 50-100% of patients do not **use** their inhaler devices correctly, with patients often unaware that they are using their inhaled medication incorrectly. Incorrect inhaler technique has been associated with poorer outcomes. Incorrect...
1681. ...12. This followed from U.S. decision to agree to the 1987 Montreal Protocol on Substances that deplete the ozone layer. Hydrofluorocarbon propellants have replaced CFC propellants. Concerns about the **use** of hydrofluorocarbon propellants have, however, since arisen since these compounds are potent greenhouse gases; propellants released during the use of a single inhaler result in a greenhouse footprin...
1682. ...s have replaced CFC propellants. Concerns about the use of hydrofluorocarbon propellants have, however, since arisen since these compounds are potent greenhouse gases; propellants released during the **use** of a single inhaler result in a greenhouse footprint equivalent to greenhouse gases released during a 180-mile car journey. Phospholipids are important natural surfactant lipids. used to enhance pene...
1683. ...mites contain an oxidizer and a reducing agent, which are intimately mixed on the nanometer scale. MICs, including nano-thermitic materials, are a type of reactive materials investigated for military **use**, as well as for general applications involving propellants, explosives, and pyrotechnics. What distinguishes MICs from traditional thermites is that the oxidizer and a reducing agent, normally iron o...
1684. ...use nanothermites are created from reactant particles with proximities approaching the atomic scale, energy release rates are far greater. MICs or super-thermites are generally developed for military **use**, propellants, explosives, incendiary devices, and pyrotechnics. Research into military applications of nano-sized materials began in the early 1990s. Because of their highly increased reaction rate,...
1685. ...or their process, filling the capsules individually with a medicine dropper. Later on, methods were developed that used sets of plates with pockets to form the capsules. Although some companies still **use** this method, the equipment is no longer produced commercially. All modern soft-gel encapsulation uses variations of a process developed by R. P. Scherer in 1933. His innovation used a rotary die to p...
1686. ...g gelatin capsule in 1847. The capsules are made in two parts by dipping metal pins in the gelling agent solution. The capsules are supplied as closed units to the pharmaceutical manufacturer. Before **use**, the two halves are separated, and the capsule is filled with powder or more normally pellets made by the process of extrusion and spheronization (either by placing a compressed slug of powder into o...
1687. ...ed pharmaceutical products, since even cosmetic creams are manufactured using techniques developed by pharmacy and unmedicated creams are highly used in a variety of skin conditions (dermatoses). The **use** of the finger tip unit concept may be helpful in guiding how much topical cream is required to cover different areas. Creams are semi-solid emulsions of oil and water. They are divided into two types...
1688. ...te gives [(crypt-222)K] [F]F (2) . The fluoride anion is nucleophilic but its anhydrous conditions are required to avoid competing reactions involving hydroxide, which is also a good nucleophile. The **use** of the cryptand to sequester the potassium ions avoids ion-pairing between free potassium and fluoride ions, rendering the fluoride anion more reactive. Intermediate 2 is treated with the protected m...
1689. ...[F]FDG have accompanied PET scanners to remote hospitals. This technology holds some promise in the future, for replacing some of the scramble to transport [F]FDG from site of manufacture to site of **use**. In PET imaging, [F]FDG is primarily used for imaging tumors in oncology, where a static [F]FDG PET scan is performed and the tumor [F]FDG uptake is analyzed in terms of Standardized Uptake Value (SU...
1690. ...osis, staging, and monitoring treatment of cancers, particularly in Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, breast cancer, melanoma, and lung cancer. It has also been approved for **use** in diagnosing Alzheimer's disease. In body-scanning applications in searching for tumor or metastatic disease, a dose of [F]-FDG in solution (typically 5 to 10 millicuries or 200 to 400 MBq) is typic...
1691. ...h blood glucose levels over about 180 mg/dL = 10 mmol/L, and such patients must be rescheduled). The patient must then wait about an hour for the sugar to distribute and be taken up into organs which **use** glucose – a time during which physical activity must be kept to a minimum, in order to minimize uptake of the radioactive sugar into muscles (this causes unwanted artifacts in the scan, interfering w...
1692. ...ytotoxic therapy). However, the modalities can be combined; antibody-drug conjugates combine biologic and cytotoxic mechanisms into one targeted therapy. Another form of targeted therapy involves the **use** of nanoengineered enzymes to bind to a tumor cell such that the body's natural cell degradation process can digest the cell, effectively eliminating it from the body. Targeted cancer therapies are ex...
1693. ...ma, prostate cancer, melanoma and other cancers. Biomarkers are usually required to aid the selection of patients who will likely respond to a given targeted therapy. Co-targeted therapy involves the **use** of one or more therapeutics aimed at multiple targets, for example PI3K and MEK, in an attempt to generate a synergistic response and prevent the development of drug resistance. The definitive experi...
1694. ...nant phenotype of tumor cells involved treating Her2/neu transformed cells with monoclonal antibodies in vitro and in vivo by Mark Greene's laboratory and reported from 1985. Some have challenged the **use** of the term, stating that drugs usually associated with the term are insufficiently selective. The phrase occasionally appears in scare quotes: "targeted therapy". Targeted therapies may also be desc...
1695. ...topical application of materials is often used by animals to treat wounds or repel insects. When plant leaves are chewed and then directly rubbed onto fur, compounds from said leaves are released for **use**. These compounds can often be analgesic or antiparasitic in nature. In regards to an insect repellant, the secondary metabolites traditionally used by plants to deter herbivores and insects from eati...
1696. ...electing a particular part of a medicinal plant by taking off leaves and breaking the stem to suck out the juice. Anubis baboons ("Papio anubis") and hamadryas baboons ("Papio hamadryas") in Ethiopia **use** fruits and leaves of "Balanites aegyptiaca" to control schistosomiasis. Its fruits contain diosgenin, a hormone precursor that presumably hinders the development of schistosomes. African elephants ("...
1697. ...tone 8β-hydroxyasterolide. Domestic cats and dogs often select and ingest plant material, apparently to induce vomiting. Indian wild boars selectively dig up and eat the roots of pigweed which humans **use** as an anthelmintic. Mexican folklore indicates that pigs eat pomegranate roots because they contain an alkaloid that is toxic to tapeworms. A study on domestic sheep ("Ovis aries") has provided clear...
1698. ...s. The treatment animals preferred to eat the specific compound known to rectify the state of malaise induced by the food previously ingested. However, control animals did not change their pattern of **use** of the medicines, irrespective of the food consumed before the choice. Other ruminants learn to self-medicate against gastrointestinal parasites by increasing consumption of plant secondary compounds...
1699. ...s or soothe bites. This plant, locally known as "bear root", contains 105 active compounds, such as coumarins that may repel insects when topically applied. Navajo Indians are said to have learned to **use** this root medicinally from the bear for treating stomach aches and infections. A range of primates rub millipedes onto their fur and skin; millipedes contain benzoquinones, compounds known to be pote...
1700. ...nd skin; millipedes contain benzoquinones, compounds known to be potently repellent to insects. As the millipede secretions are also psychoactive, the behavior may also be a form of recreational drug **use** in animals. Tufted capuchins ("Cebus apella") rub various parts of their body with carpenter ants ("Camponotus rufipes") or allow the ants to crawl over them, in a behaviour called anting. The capuch...
1701. ...their bill and wipe them vigorously along the spine of each feather down to the base, or sometimes roll in ant hills twisting and turning so the ants crawl through their feathers. Birds most commonly **use** ants that spray formic acid. In laboratory tests, this acid is harmful to feather lice. Its vapour alone can kill them. Some birds select nesting material rich in anti-microbial agents that may prote...
1702. ...practice by Gianni Bonadonna and his colleagues from the Instituto Tumori in Italy in 1973, where they conducted a randomized trial that demonstrated more favorable survival outcomes that accompanied **use** of Cyclophosphamide Methotrexate Fluorouracil (CMF) after the initial mastectomy. In 1976, shortly after Bonadonna's landmark trial, Bernard Fisher at the University of Pittsburgh initiated a similar...
1703. ...rapy is commonly given as adjuvant treatment after surgery for breast cancer. Systemic therapy consists of chemotherapy, immunotherapy or biological response modifiers or hormone therapy. Oncologists **use** statistical evidence to assess the risk of disease relapse before deciding on the specific adjuvant therapy. The aim of adjuvant treatment is to improve disease-specific symptoms and overall survival...
1704. ...ctive and safe, and is seen to have a promising role in cancer treatment. A motif found throughout the history of cancer therapy is the tendency for overtreatment. From the time of its inception, the **use** of adjuvant therapy has received scrutiny for its adverse effects on the quality of life of cancer patients. For example, because side effects of adjuvant chemotherapy can range from nausea to loss o...
1705. ...exist (e.g., embryo preservation, oocyte cryopreservation, ovarian suppression, etc.), they are more often than not time-consuming and costly. As a result of complications that can stem from liberal **use** of adjuvant therapy, the philosophy surrounding the use of adjuvant therapy in the clinical setting has shifted towards the goal of doing as little harm as possible to patients. The standards for dos...
1706. ...on, ovarian suppression, etc.), they are more often than not time-consuming and costly. As a result of complications that can stem from liberal use of adjuvant therapy, the philosophy surrounding the **use** of adjuvant therapy in the clinical setting has shifted towards the goal of doing as little harm as possible to patients. The standards for dose intensity of adjuvant treatments and treatment duratio...
1707. ...pse, but only causes harmful side effects. Those claims have not been validated by scientific research. Adjuvant chemotherapy has been used in malignant melanoma, but there is little hard evidence to **use** chemotherapy in the adjuvant setting. However, melanoma is not a chemotherapy-resistant malignancy. Dacarbazine, temozolomide, and cisplatin all have a reproducible 10–20% response rate in metastatic...
1708. ...Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) followed by a radical cystectomy (RC) and pelvic lymph node dissection is current standard of care to treat muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC). NAC was justified for **use** in MIBC due to a randomized control trial which showed an improved median overall survival (OS; 77 months vs. 46 months, "p" = 0.06) and downstaging of pathology (pT0 in 38% vs. 15%) in those who rec...
1709. ...ry, adjuvant therapy is only given after surveillance and histological factors determine that a patient is at high risk for recurrence. Adjuvant pelvic radiation therapy has received scrutiny for its **use** in women under 60, as studies have indicated decreased survival and increased risk of second malignancies following treatment. In advanced-stage endometrial cancer, adjuvant therapy is typically radi...
1710. ..., the options include: active surveillance, adjuvant chemotherapy and retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. As is the case for all reproductive cancers, a degree of caution is taken when deciding to **use** adjuvant therapy to treat early stage testicular cancer. Though the 5-year survival rates for stage I testicular cancers is approximately 99%, there still exists controversy over whether to overtreat...
1711. ...made dinners, cookie mixes, and cold cuts as being full of preservatives and other "chemical poisons." Jean Hewitt authored the "New York Times Natural Foods Cookbook", an influential cookbook on the **use** of natural foods. Hewitt suggested that before large-scale mechanized farming and modern food production methods, people ate "fresh, natural and unrefined foods for granted" and but have since abando...
1712. ...o "the thousands of people across the country who believe in, and practice, the natural way of eating for good health". In the United Kingdom, the Food Standards Agency has published criteria for the **use** of several terms in food labeling. The guidance, in general, restricts the use of natural foods that have "ingredients produced by nature, not the work of man or interfered with by man." Natural flav...
1713. ...natural way of eating for good health". In the United Kingdom, the Food Standards Agency has published criteria for the use of several terms in food labeling. The guidance, in general, restricts the **use** of natural foods that have "ingredients produced by nature, not the work of man or interfered with by man." Natural flavorings are explicitly defined by separate laws. There are different standards f...
1714. ...processing techniques, such as fermentation or pasteurization. The standard explicitly rules out "foods derived from novel processes, GM or cloning." The Canadian Food Inspection Agency restricts the **use** of "natural" to foods that have not been significantly altered by processing and gives examples of processes that do or do not significantly alter food. This includes two specific additional requirem...
1715. ...ssue regulations against the inappropriate usage of "natural" labels; yet, the FDA does not have specific rules for "natural" labeling. It advised on their website "the agency has not objected to the **use** of the term if the food does not contain added color, artificial flavors, or synthetic substances." Furthermore, the FDA has not developed any rules or regulations on the defining features of what qu...
1716. ...viding expert advice on clinical pharmacy, academic pharmacy or practice, public health pharmacy, industrial pharmacy, community pharmacy or practice, pharmaceutical analysis etc., regarding the safe **use** and production of medications or on the provision of pharmaceutical services to medical institutions, hospitals, universities, research institutions, medical practices and individual patients. In Aus...
1717. ...ters for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), The Joint Commission (JC) and individual states licensing bodies encourage healthcare facilities to **use** consultant pharmacists. Consultants may specialize in one of the following areas: Regulatory, Quality, Technical, or Clinical. In the UK's NHS, the term consultant pharmacist refers to a pharmacist w...
1718. ...they do. Worn continuously for three weeks followed by a week off, each vaginal ring provides anywhere from one month (NuvaRing) to one year (Annovera and Progering) of birth control. For continuous-**use** contraception, users can also choose to wear the vaginal ring for the full four week cycle. This manner of contraception will eliminate monthly periods. Throughout the additional week, the serum horm...
1719. ...does so are latex or polyurethane condoms. The contraceptive vaginal ring has a failure rate of 0.3% when used as prescribed and 9% when used typically. The correlation between breast cancer and the **use** of vaginal rings is under investigation, but recent literature suggests that the hormones used in vaginal rings has little, if any, relation to the risk of developing breast cancer. Vaginal rings are...
1720. ...h control. If the ring is out for more than 48 hours, back up contraception is necessary for seven days. It typically takes between one and two months for a user's cycle to return to normal after the **use** of a vaginal ring is stopped. Officinal Officinal drugs, plants and herbs are those which are sold in a chemist or druggist shop. Officinal medical preparations of such drugs are made in accordance w...
1721. ...here things were made. Whereas official descends from officium, meaning office, as in duty or position. In botanical nomenclature, the specific epithet "officinalis" derives from a plant's historical **use** in pharmacology. European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership The European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP) is a partnership between the European Union (E...
1722. ...onsidered the fastest way to get medication to the heart. The practice began declining during the 1970s as more reliable delivery methods (i.e., intravenous, endotracheal, and intraosseous) came into **use**. Around that time, studies revealed that intravenous injections were equally effective and were less prone to risks and complications. Intracardiac injections of drugs were generally used only to pro...
1723. ...ericardium -- fills with blood. This causes external pressure on the heart, which prevents it from pumping properly. The probability of complications can be reduced by using a narrow gauge of needle. **Use** of intracardiac injections requires the cessation of cardiopulmonary resuscitation and may be more time-consuming than other delivery methods. In the movie "Pulp Fiction", an intracardiac injection o...
1724. ...ministration via the nasal mucosa. This method is also extensively used by people administering certain psychoactive drugs. One drawback, however, is tooth discoloration and decay caused by long-term **use** of this method with acidic or otherwise caustic drugs and fillers. In addition to salvinorin A, other psychoactives may also be applied sublingually. LSD, MDMA, morphine, alprazolam, clonazepam, diaz...
1725. ...obacter pylori", but sublingual administration may also be used for vaccines against other infectious diseases. Z-factor The Z-factor is a measure of statistical effect size. It has been proposed for **use** in high-throughput screening (HTS), where it is also known as Z-prime, to judge whether the response in a particular assay is large enough to warrant further attention. In HTS, experimenters often co...
1726. ...e used to assess the quality of an assay, in an attempt to predict if it would be useful in a high-throughput setting. The Z-factor is an attempt to quantify the suitability of a particular assay for **use** in a full-scale HTS. The Z-factor is defined in terms of four parameters: the means (formula_1) and standard deviations (formula_2) of samples (s) and controls (c). Given these values (formula_3, for...
1727. ...matically. A recently proposed statistical parameter, strictly standardized mean difference (SSMD), can address these issues. One estimate of SSMD is robust to outliers. Syrette A syrette is a single-**use** device for injecting liquid through a needle. It is similar to a syringe except that it has a sealed squeeze tube instead of a rigid tube and piston. It was developed by the pharmaceutical manufactur...
1728. ...om the sealed end (see subcutaneous injection). After injection the used tube was often pinned to the receiving soldier's collar to inform others of the dose administered. The syrette was adopted for **use** by the United States Army in 1940. The US military also distributed atropine in syrettes. Chemical treatment was subsequently distributed in autoinjector form. Amphiphile In chemistry, an amphiphile...
1729. ...as 10% per °C, making it possible that MVTR results achieved at 23°C and 37°C can differ by a factor 4. The most common international unit for the MVTR is g/m/day. In the USA, g/100in/day is also in **use**, which is 0.064516 (approximately 1/15) of the value of g/m/day units. Typical rates in aluminium foil laminates may be as low as 0.001 g/m/day, whereas the rate in fabrics can measure up to several...
1730. ...nducted on a sheet of material. Calculations based on that can be useful when designing completed structures, clothing, and packages. Seams, creases, access points, and heat seals are critical to end-**use** performance. For example, the glass of a bottle may have an effective total barrier, but the screw cap closure and the closure liner might not. Performance verification and validation of complete con...
1731. ...is the function of drug development to assess all of these parameters prior to human clinical trials. A further major objective of drug development is to recommend the dose and schedule for the first **use** in a human clinical trial ("first-in-human" [FIH] or First Human Dose [FHD], previously also known as "first-in-man" [FIM]). In addition, drug development must establish the physicochemical propertie...
1732. ...st-in-man" [FIM]). In addition, drug development must establish the physicochemical properties of the NCE: its chemical makeup, stability, and solubility. Manufacturers must optimize the process they **use** to make the chemical so they can scale up from a medicinal chemist producing milligrams, to manufacturing on the kilogram and ton scale. They further examine the product for suitability to package as...
1733. ...focus on satisfying the regulatory requirements for a new drug application. These generally constitute a number of tests designed to determine the major toxicities of a novel compound prior to first **use** in humans. It is a legal requirement that an assessment of major organ toxicity be performed (effects on the heart and lungs, brain, kidney, liver and digestive system), as well as effects on other p...
1734. ...d by the drug (e.g., the skin if the new drug is to be delivered on or through the skin). Such preliminary tests are made using "in vitro" methods (e.g., with isolated cells), but many tests can only **use** experimental animals to demonstrate the complex interplay of metabolism and drug exposure on toxicity. The information is gathered from this preclinical testing, as well as information on CMC, and su...
1735. ...niscent of organophosphate poisoning. Other symptoms include increased sweating, salivation, bronchial secretions along with miosis (constricted pupils).  This crisis may be masked by the concomitant **use** of atropine along with cholinesterase inhibitor medication in order to prevent side effects. Flaccid paralysis resulting from cholinergic crisis can be distinguished from myasthenia gravis by the use...
1736. ...use of atropine along with cholinesterase inhibitor medication in order to prevent side effects. Flaccid paralysis resulting from cholinergic crisis can be distinguished from myasthenia gravis by the **use** of the drug edrophonium (Tensilon), as it only worsens the paralysis caused by cholinergic crisis but strengthens the muscle response in the case of myasthenia gravis. (Edrophonium is a cholinesteras...
1737. ...bruary 1920 – 29 September 1977) was a Sri Lankan pharmacologist. He was the founder of Sri Lanka's drug policy, which was used as a model for development of policies based on rational pharmaceutical **use** in other countries as well by the World Health Organization, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the Non-Aligned Movement. Due to the far reaching effects of his propo...
1738. ...resentatives from the public and private health sectors and the University Medical Schools a formulary committee was set up with him as its first chairman. The NFC published "Formulary Notes" for the **use** of doctors, which later became "The Prescriber". At the time, it was alleged and widely believed that Pharmaceutical companies in the country made considerable money by selling drugs under their trad...
1739. ...ice, and that doctors prescribe the minimum of required drugs in order to treat the patient's illness. The pioneers in this field were Sri Lanka and Chile. A rational drug policy is one based on drug **use** in which patients receive medications appropriate to their clinical needs, in doses that meet their own individual requirements, for an adequate period of time, and at the lowest cost to them and the...
1740. ...ly, while standard treatment guidelines are available, there is no effective monitoring system for prescription practices is in place; there is little quality assessment and no incentive for rational **use**. In 2005 the United People's Freedom Alliance Government promised to establish a National Medicinal Drugs Policy (NMPD) that would enable Sri Lankans significantly to cut down on drug expenses and ge...
1741. ...isease, for example chills often are precursors to fevers. National Medicinal Drugs Policy The National Medicinal Drugs Policy is an essential part of Sri Lanka's Health Policy, aimed at the rational **use** of pharmaceuticals. By the beginning of the 21st Century, Sri Lanka had approximately 9,000 registered medicinal drugs, hundreds of which were non-essential, unnecessary, highly expensive or even dan...
1742. ...dangerous. In 1996 the Government of President Chandrika Kumaratunga had established a new health policy, one stated aim of which was to develop and implement a National Drug Policy for the rational **use** and distribution of drugs. While this policy continues to this day, no concrete measures had been adopted for its implementation. In 2005 the United People's Freedom Alliance Government promised to e...
1743. ...tative of the People's Movement for the Rights of Patients, was appointed in March to oversee and expedite the implementation of the Drug Policy based on the Seneka Bibile principles of rational drug **use**. The NSC was advised by the Legal Draftsman that new legislation should be drafted for the establishment of the NMDA. During 2007, popular pressure for the implementation of the NMPD grew. In October...
1744. ...ethnicities (genetic polymorphism). Although designed primarily for drug utilisation research, data using the DDD can only give a "rough estimate" compared with actually collecting statistics on drug **use** in practice. The DDD is often use for long term research and analysis of drug utilisation trends over time, so changes to the DDD are avoided if possible, whereas changes in the actual daily dose pre...
1745. .... Although designed primarily for drug utilisation research, data using the DDD can only give a "rough estimate" compared with actually collecting statistics on drug use in practice. The DDD is often **use** for long term research and analysis of drug utilisation trends over time, so changes to the DDD are avoided if possible, whereas changes in the actual daily dose prescribed for a population may often...
1746. ...scribed dose in that country or setting and at that point in history. Because the primary purpose of the ATC/DDD system is drug consumption measurement, the WHO recommend caution when considering its **use** for cost analysis: "DDDs, if used with caution can be used to compare, for example, the costs of two formulations of the same drug." So, the "cost per DDD" of an extended-release tablet taken once a...
1747. ...ay not necessarily compare well with the actual prescribed daily dose, and two drugs in the same ATC group may not be equally effective at their Daily Defined Dose. For example, an analysis of statin **use** in the Ontario Drug Benefit Program, 2006-07. The average "cost per DDD" of rosuvastatin was 21% more expensive than atorvastatin ($1.14 compared to $0.94), which would suggest the shift at the time...
1748. ...12.6 mg vs 10mg), but the RDD of atorvastatin was twice its DDD (20.6 mg vs 10mg). The DDD of atorvastatin was revised in 2009 to 20mg. The Canadian Patented Medicine Prices Review Board analysed the **use** of DDD for drug utilisation and cost analysis and offered recommendations. They particularly concentrated on the problems that occur when the Recorded Daily Dose (RDD) observed in the population devi...
1749. ...ular iron is bound to low-affinity complexes, and is termed labile iron or "free" iron. Iron in such complexes can cause damage as described above. To prevent that kind of damage, all life forms that **use** iron bind the iron atoms to proteins. This binding allows cells to benefit from iron while also limiting its ability to do harm. Typical intracellular labile iron concentrations in bacteria are 10-20...
1750. ...iologic source of reserve iron in the body. The reserves of iron in industrialized countries tend to be lower in children and women of child-bearing age than in men and in the elderly. Women who must **use** their stores to compensate for iron lost through menstruation, pregnancy or lactation have lower non-hemoglobin body stores, which may consist of , or even less. Of the body's total iron content, abo...
1751. ...t through menstruation, pregnancy or lactation have lower non-hemoglobin body stores, which may consist of , or even less. Of the body's total iron content, about is devoted to cellular proteins that **use** iron for important cellular processes like storing oxygen (myoglobin) or performing energy-producing redox reactions (cytochromes). A relatively small amount (3–4 mg) circulates through the plasma, b...
1752. ...ption of from 15% to 35% of intake. Heme iron in animals is from blood and heme-containing proteins in meat and mitochondria, whereas in plants, heme iron is present in mitochondria in all cells that **use** oxygen for respiration. Like most mineral nutrients, the majority of the iron absorbed from digested food or supplements is absorbed in the duodenum by enterocytes of the duodenal lining. These cells...
1753. ...cialized proteins known as metallochaperones. Specifically, poly-r(C)-binding proteins PCBP1 and PCBP2 appear to mediate transfer of free iron to ferritin (for storage) and non-heme iron enzymes (for **use** in catalysis). The labile iron pool is potentially toxic due to iron's ability to generate reactive oxygen species. Iron from this pool can be taken up by mitochondria via mitoferrin to synthesize Fe...
1754. ...pharmacy benefits company based in Tampa, for $250 million. In October 2017, Express Scripts lost its biggest client, Anthem, which said it would not renew the PBM contract in 2019 and would instead **use** CVS Health. Anthem alleged in court filings that Express had overcharged it by $3 billion. Anthem said that it would launch its own competing PBM service, IngenioRx. The battle between the two compan...
1755. ...higher price. The company said in an email to 60 Minutes that there was no conflict of interest. Express Scripts is known to reimburse pharmacies below cost for medications and push patients to only **use** their mail order service. They then will spread price the medication and charge the plan sponsor a much higher price for the medication than they will reimburse pharmacies for. Bowl of Hygieia The Bo...
1756. ...the effectiveness of the antidepressant. Increasing the dosage of an antidepressant is a common strategy to treat depression that does not respond after adequate treatment duration. Practitioners who **use** this strategy will usually increase the dose until the person reports intolerable side effects, symptoms are eliminated, or the dose is increased to the limit of what is considered safe. Studies have...
1757. ...I may respond to moclobemide or tricyclic antidepressants, bupropion or an MAOI. Some off label antidepressants are low dose ketamine and highly serotonergic catecholamines (including very controlled **use** of MDMA in the treatment of PTSD and crippling depression/anxiety). For lethargic syndromes, dysthymia, or caffeine-resistant amotivation, a dopaminergic stimulant such as methylphenidate, or even de...
1758. ...as a rapid-acting antidepressant for treatment-resistant depression in bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder. Spravato, a nasal spray form of esketamine, was approved by the FDA in 2019 for **use** in treatment-resistant depression when combined with an oral antidepressant. A 2016 placebo randomized controlled trial evaluated the rapid antidepressant effects of the psychedelic ayahuasca in trea...
1759. ...es Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted breakthrough therapy designation for psilocybin-assisted therapy for treatment-resistant depression. A systematic review published in 2021 found that the **use** of psilocybin as a pharmaceutical substance was associated with reduced intensity of depression symptoms. Electroconvulsive therapy is generally only considered as a treatment option in severe cases...
1760. ...tect the pipework and components against corrosion, or a biocide will be added to stop the growth of bacteria in lower temperature systems. The required chemicals will be added to the fluid system by **use** of a dosing pot; a multi-valved chamber in which the chemical can be added, and then introduced to the fluid system in a controlled manner. In food industries, the dosing of ingredients is particular...
1761. ...n base enzymes for the hydration of carbon dioxide and acid–base homeostasis, that regulates PH levels in life. In plant life, liquid water is needed for photosynthesis, the biological process plants **use** to convert light energy and carbon dioxide into chemical energy. Water makes up 55% to 60% of the human body by weight. A few other elements have been proposed as candidates for supporting biological...
1762. ...hetamines and barbiturates, and also less dangerous than alcohol. (…) An increasing number of people, mainly young, in all classes of society are experimenting with this drug, and substantial numbers **use** it regularly for social pleasure. There is no evidence that this activity is causing violent crime, or is producing in otherwise normal people conditions of dependence or psychosis requiring medical...
1763. ...the population"". The concept was mentioned in one of the ten points of the 1978 Alma Ata Declaration on primary health care. In 2002 the definition was changed to: This remains the definition . The **use** of essential medicines lists has resulted in better quality of care and improved management of health resources in the most cost-effective manner. The lists serve as a baseline for health insurance e...
1764. ...exclude the medication, and modify the dose based on clinical study evidence. To improve the accessibility of essential medicines for both children and adults, it is necessary to ensure the rational **use** of medicine while also being cost-effective. In a 2023 study evaluating the availability, distribution, and progress of essential medicines in China, results showed that access to essential medicines...
1765. ...slation regarding medicines, affordability and financing needs to be understood to enhance universal access to essential medicines. The intention of essential medicine lists is to provide appropriate **use** of treatment and not include medications that have been withdrawn from the market in other countries due to unfavorable benefit-to-harm balance. Despite many efforts from different countries, some in...
1766. ...place Codeine as an essential medication. Not to mention, it was further discouraged in 2011 when Codeine was removed from WHO essential medicine list for children, causing greater discussion of its **use** in adults. Another article discusses the appropriateness of empirical dosing of different antibiotics on EMLs from multiple countries. Using the top 31 priority bacterial infections as a comparator,...
1767. ...e of the 44 essential antibiotic medications, 24 of them were accessible to the population, 5 of them considered on reserve, and 15 of them on WATCH using the AWaRe classification.  Additionally, the **use** of therapeutic guidelines as a reference for the creation of the WHO Essential Medicine List has been used to provide consistency and alignment of treatment across the nation. In the 2022 quantitativ...
1768. ...monitoring to make sure there is compliance. Access to essential medicines are part of the Sustainable Development Goals, specifically goal 3.8. A number of organizations, which are global in scope, **use** the list to determine which medications they will supply. Rather than strictly following the list, many nations refer to the essential medicines list as a guide for developing their own laws and regu...
1769. ...together to tackle these various issues. The Campaign is calling for improvements to the quality of food aid to meet growing children’s nutritional needs. They are also urging a rapid scale-up in the **use** and production of Ready-to-Use Foods (RUF) to reduce childhood deaths from malnutrition. It is campaigning for new TB drugs and simple diagnostics to be developed while continuing to call to attentio...
1770. ...s issues. The Campaign is calling for improvements to the quality of food aid to meet growing children’s nutritional needs. They are also urging a rapid scale-up in the use and production of Ready-to-**Use** Foods (RUF) to reduce childhood deaths from malnutrition. It is campaigning for new TB drugs and simple diagnostics to be developed while continuing to call to attention the serious underfunding for...
1771. ...unding for TB research. The Campaign continues to fight to ensure that patients have access to better and improved HIV treatments as well as further scaling up of treatment. The Campaign supports the **use** of flexibilities in world trade rules and the creation of a patent pool to ensure that patents don’t get in the way of access to the medicines patients need. The Campaign is working to promote altern...
1772. ...all eCRF item values and references both Metadata and Admin data. Define-XML supports the interchange of dataset metadata for clinical research applications in a machine-readable format. An important **use** case for Define-XML is to support the submission of clinical trials data in CDISC SDTM, SEND or ADaM format to regulatory authorities. The key metadata components to support submissions are: Define-X...
1773. ...rary) is a metadata repository that supports the development, governance, publishing, and consumption of CDISC standards in human and machine-readable formats. SHARE helps users find, understand, and **use** rich metadata (i.e., research concepts, data elements and attributes, the relationship among data elements, properties in a relationship, and controlled terminologies) relevant to clinical studies mo...
1774. ...1957. He was on the cover of "Time" magazine on August 18, 1952, illustrating a story about the American drug industry. In 1951, Merck donated 2600 acres of forest and farmland to be used for public **use**. This tract of land is in Rupert, Vermont. After his death, the area was renamed the Merck Forest and Farmland Foundation which seeks to educate about sustainable farming and forest agriculture. It i...
1775. ...re time. More simply, EC can be defined as the "concentration required to obtain a 50% [...] effect" and may be also written as [A]. It is commonly used as a measure of a drug's potency, although the **use** of EC is preferred over that of 'potency', which has been criticised for its vagueness. EC is a measure of concentration, expressed in molar units (M), where 1 M is equivalent to 1 mol/L.  The EC of...
1776. ...hey were before treatment first began) and withdrawal syndromes (symptoms caused by the discontinuation by the drug itself). Drug discontinuation may be difficult to adjust to, owing to the long term **use** and the symbolism associated with ceasing medications, such as the decision to stop chemotherapy. Recent research (Nixon & Vendelø, 2016) shows that General Practitioners (GPs) who actively consider...
1777. ..., it is the logarithm of the dose that is plotted on the X axis. The curve is typically sigmoidal, with the steepest portion in the middle. Biologically based models using dose are preferred over the **use** of log(dose) because the latter can visually imply a threshold dose when in fact there is none. Statistical analysis of dose–response curves may be performed by regression methods such as the probit...
1778. ...ormed by regression methods such as the probit model or logit model, or other methods such as the Spearman–Kärber method. Empirical models based on nonlinear regression are usually preferred over the **use** of some transformation of the data that linearizes the dose-response relationship. Typical experimental design for measuring dose-response relationships are organ bath preparations, ligand binding as...
1779. ...he most common method for microdose analysis. AMS was developed in the late 1970s from two distinct research threads with a common goal: an improvement in radiocarbon dating that would make efficient **use** of datable material and that would extend the routine and maximum reach of radiocarbon dating. AMS is routinely used in geochronology and archaeology, but biological applications began appearing in 1...
1780. ...rapy has become controversial following developments such as the ability of scientists to isolate and culture embryonic stem cells, to create stem cells using somatic cell nuclear transfer, and their **use** of techniques to create induced pluripotent stem cells. This controversy is often related to abortion politics and human cloning. Additionally, efforts to market treatments based on transplant of sto...
1781. ...cells derived from bone marrow aspirates, for instance, are cultured in specialized laboratories for expansion to millions of cells. Although adipose-derived tissue also requires processing prior to **use**, the culturing methodology for adipose-derived stem cells is not as extensive as that for bone marrow-derived cells. While it is thought that bone-marrow-derived stem cells are preferred for bone, ca...
1782. ...avelling in the blood stream and possess equal differentiating ability as other mesenchymal stem cells, again with a very non-invasive harvesting technique. There has been more recent interest in the **use** of extra embryonic mesenchymal stem cells. Research is underway to examine the differentiating capabilities of stem cells found in the umbilical cord, yolk sac and placenta of different animals. Thes...
1783. ...re differentiating ability than their adult counterparts, including the ability to more readily form tissues of endodermal and ectodermal origin. As of 2010, there was widespread controversy over the **use** of human embryonic stem cells. This controversy primarily targets the techniques used to derive new embryonic stem cell lines, which often requires the destruction of the blastocyst. Opposition to th...
1784. ...f human embryonic stem cells. This controversy primarily targets the techniques used to derive new embryonic stem cell lines, which often requires the destruction of the blastocyst. Opposition to the **use** of human embryonic stem cells in research is often based on philosophical, moral, or religious objections. There is other stem cell research that does not involve the destruction of a human embryo, a...
1785. ...p differentiated cell lines and then test new drugs on each cell type to examine possible interactions "in vitro" before performing "in vivo" studies. This is critical in the development of drugs for **use** in veterinary research because of the possibilities of species-specific interactions. The hope is that having these cell lines available for research use will reduce the need for research animals use...
1786. ...s is critical in the development of drugs for use in veterinary research because of the possibilities of species-specific interactions. The hope is that having these cell lines available for research **use** will reduce the need for research animals used because effects on human tissue "in vitro" will provide insight not normally known before the animal testing phase. To be used for research or treatment...
1787. .... Stroke and traumatic brain injury lead to cell death, characterized by a loss of neurons and oligodendrocytes within the brain. Clinical and animal studies have been conducted into the experimental **use** of stem cells in cases of spinal cord injury. In 2017, a small-scale study on individuals 60 years or older with aging frailty showed, after intravenous treatment with Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) fr...
1788. ...therapy is safe and effective, actual evidence of benefit has been reported from only a few studies. Some preliminary clinical trials achieved only modest improvements in heart function following the **use** of bone marrow stem cell therapy. Stem-cell therapy for the treatment of myocardial infarction usually makes use of autologous bone marrow stem cells, but other types of adult stem cells may be used,...
1789. ...nary clinical trials achieved only modest improvements in heart function following the use of bone marrow stem cell therapy. Stem-cell therapy for the treatment of myocardial infarction usually makes **use** of autologous bone marrow stem cells, but other types of adult stem cells may be used, such as adipose-derived stem cells. Possible mechanisms of recovery include:Generation of heart muscle cells, St...
1790. ...ult teeth. Many challenges remain, however, before stem cells can be a choice for the replacement of missing teeth in the future. Heller has reported success in re-growing cochlea hair cells with the **use** of embryonic stem cells. In a 2019 review that looked at hearing regeneration and regenerative medicine, stem cell-derived otic progenitors have the potential to greatly improve hearing. Since 2003,...
1791. ...05, when researchers at the Queen Victoria Hospital of Sussex, England were able to restore the sight of forty people using the same technique. The group, led by Sheraz Daya, was able to successfully **use** adult stem cells obtained from the patient, a relative, or even a cadaver. Further rounds of trials are ongoing. People with Type 1 diabetes lose the function of insulin-producing beta cells within t...
1792. ...transplanted successfully, they will be able to replace malfunctioning ones in a diabetic patient. There are adverse effects of high glucose concentrations on stem cell therapy, however. As of 2017, **use** of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) derived from adult stem cells was under preliminary research for potential orthopedic applications in bone and muscle trauma, cartilage repair, osteoarthritis, interv...
1793. ...tion over 2 years" in people who had a myocardial infarction. Accordingly, the BOOST-2 trial conducted in 10 medical centers in Germany and Norway reported that the trial result "does not support the **use** of nucleated BMCs in patients with STEMI and moderately reduced LVEF". Furthermore, the trial also did not meet any other secondary MRI endpoints, leading to a conclusion that intracoronary bone marr...
1794. ...as clinically relevant models that closely mimic human disease. Veterinary applications of stem cell therapy as a means of tissue regeneration have been largely shaped by research that began with the **use** of adult-derived mesenchymal stem cells to treat animals with injuries or defects affecting bone, cartilage, ligaments and/or tendons. There are two main categories of stem cells used for treatments:...
1795. ...ies of stem cells used for treatments: allogeneic stem cells derived from a genetically different donor within the same species, and autologous mesenchymal stem cells, derived from the patient before **use** in various treatments. A third category, xenogenic stem cells, or stem cells derived from different species, are used primarily for research purposes, especially for human treatments. Bone has a uniq...
1796. ...Within four weeks of placing the scaffold, newly formed bone begins to integrate with the old bone and within 32 weeks, full union is achieved. Further studies are necessary to fully characterize the **use** of cell-based therapeutics for treatment of bone fractures. Stem cells have been used to treat degenerative bone diseases in dogs. The normally recommended treatment for dogs that have Legg–Calve–Per...
1797. ...ith the natural alignment found in uninjured tendons. Stem cell treatment not only allowed more horses to return to full duty and also greatly reduced the re-injury rate over a three-year period. The **use** of embryonic stem cells has also been applied to tendon repair. The embryonic stem cells were shown to have a better survival rate in the tendon as well as better migrating capabilities to reach all...
1798. ...gen formed. There was also no tumor formation seen during the three-month experimental period. Long-term studies need to be carried out to examine the long-term efficacy and risks associated with the **use** of embryonic stem cells. Similar results have been found in small animals. Osteoarthritis is the main cause of joint pain both in animals and humans. Horses and dogs are most frequently affected by a...
1799. ...are currently the most often used for stem cell treatment of osteoarthritis because of the non-invasive harvesting. This is a recently developed, non-invasive technique developed for easier clinical **use**. Dogs receiving this treatment showed greater flexibility in their joints and less pain. Stem cells have successfully been used to ameliorate healing in the heart after myocardial infarction in dogs....
1800. ...the stem cell treatment. Stem cells were also able to restore sight in one eye of a horse with retinal detachment, allowing the horse to return to daily activities. Stem cells are being explored for **use** in conservation efforts. Spermatogonial stem cells have been harvested from a rat and placed into a mouse host and fully mature sperm were produced with the ability to produce viable offspring. Curre...
1801. ...ts of stem cell therapies range widely by clinic, condition, and cell type, but most commonly range between $10,000-$20,000. Insurance does not cover stem cell injections at clinics so patients often **use** on-line fundraising. In 2018, the US Federal Trade Commission found health centers and an individual physician making unsubstantiated claims for stem cell therapies, and forced refunds of some $500,0...
1802. ...ims for stem cell therapies, and forced refunds of some $500,000. The FDA filed suit against two stem cell clinic firms around the same time, seeking permanent injunctions against their marketing and **use** of unapproved adipose stem cell products. Although according to the NIH no stem cell treatments have been approved for COVID-19, and the agency recommends against the use of MSCs for the disease, som...
1803. ...against their marketing and use of unapproved adipose stem cell products. Although according to the NIH no stem cell treatments have been approved for COVID-19, and the agency recommends against the **use** of MSCs for the disease, some stem cell clinics began marketing both unproven and non-FDA-approved stem cells and exosomes for COVID-19 in 2020. The FDA took prompt action by sending letters to the f...
1804. ...ent re-ignition. Favourable experiences led to its acceptance for fighting other types of class A fires, including structure fires. Class B foams are designed for class B fires—flammable liquids. The **use** of class A foam on a class B fire may yield unexpected results, as class A foams are not designed to contain the explosive vapours produced by flammable liquids. Class B foams have two major subtypes...
1805. ...FFFP foam virtually useless. There are 2 main application techniques of applying foam onto a fire, recognized by the European (EN1568) and international (ISO7203) standards: Sweep (roll-on) method - **Use** only on a pool of flammable product on open ground. Direct the foam stream onto the ground in front of the product involved. May need to move the hose line or use multiple lines to cover the material...
1806. ...standards: Sweep (roll-on) method - Use only on a pool of flammable product on open ground. Direct the foam stream onto the ground in front of the product involved. May need to move the hose line or **use** multiple lines to cover the material. If multiple lines are used, be aware of other firefighters in the area. Bankshot (bankdown) method - Firefighter uses an object to deflect the foam stream so it...
1807. ...ew Zealand's Minister for the Environment announced that higher than acceptable levels of PFOS and PFOA were found in groundwater at two Royal New Zealand Air Force bases, thought to be from historic **use** of firefighting foam containing the substances. Residents residing near the airbases were told to drink bottled water until more extensive testing could be carried out. In 2020, state government agen...
1808. ...cal agents that act at synapses follows. Electronic data capture An electronic data capture (EDC) system is a computerized system designed for the collection of clinical data in electronic format for **use** mainly in human clinical trials. EDC replaces the traditional paper-based data collection methodology to streamline data collection and expedite the time to market for drugs and medical devices. EDC...
1809. ...number of benefits could be derived: These early RDE systems used "thick client" software—software installed locally on a laptop computer's hardware—to collect the patient data. The system could then **use** a modem connection over an analog phone line to periodically transmit the data back to the sponsor, and to collect questions from the sponsor that the medical staff would need to answer. Though effec...
1810. ...r in July 2015 to further promote the guidance. Efforts like the TransCelerate eSource Initiative (in 2016) have been founded "to facilitate the understanding of the eSource landscape and the optimal **use** of electronic data sources in the industry to improve global clinical science and global clinical trial execution for stakeholders." A 2017 study by the Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development...
1811. ...hieve efficiency, quality output, and uniformity of performance, while reducing miscommunication and failure to comply with industry regulations. Some military services (e.g., in the U.S. and the UK) **use** the term standing operating procedure, since a military SOP refers to a unit's unique procedures, which are not necessarily standard to another unit. The word "standard" could suggest that only one (...
1812. ...e responsible for monitoring whether the study report and tests are meeting the SOP. SOPs can also provide employees with a reference to common business practices, activities, or tasks. New employees **use** an SOP to answer questions without having to interrupt supervisors to ask how an operation is performed. The international quality standard ISO 9001 essentially requires the determination of processe...
1813. ...y solubility equilibria. Chemically, bSi is hydrated silica (SiO·"n"HO), which is essential to many plants and animals. Diatoms in both fresh and salt water extract dissolved silica from the water to **use** as a component of their cell walls. Likewise, some holoplanktonic protozoa (Radiolaria), some sponges, and some plants (leaf phytoliths) use silicon as a structural material. Silicon is known to be r...
1814. ...and salt water extract dissolved silica from the water to use as a component of their cell walls. Likewise, some holoplanktonic protozoa (Radiolaria), some sponges, and some plants (leaf phytoliths) **use** silicon as a structural material. Silicon is known to be required by chicks and rats for growth and skeletal development. Silicon is in human connective tissues, bones, teeth, skin, eyes, glands and...
1815. ...with a unique identifier such as an Electronic Product Code (EPC) for track and trace purposes. The marking or "tagging" of products is usually completed within the manufacturing process through the **use** of various combinations of human readable or machine readable technologies such as DataMatrix barcodes or RFID. The track and trace concept can be supported by means of reckoning and reporting of the...
1816. ...ing. From the scattering intensity, one can deduce the size of each aggregate, and construct a detailed aggregate size distribution. If the suspensions contain high amounts of salt, one could equally **use** a Coulter counter. As time proceeds, the size distribution shifts towards larger aggregates, and from this variation aggregation and breakup rates involving different clusters can be deduced. The dis...
1817. ...) describes the degree to which a patient correctly follows medical advice. Most commonly, it refers to medication or drug compliance, but it can also apply to other situations such as medical device **use**, self care, self-directed exercises, or therapy sessions. Both patient and health-care provider affect compliance, and a positive physician-patient relationship is the most important factor in improv...
1818. ...th adherence, capacitance) describes the degree to which a patient correctly follows medical advice. Most commonly, it refers to medication or drug compliance, but it can also apply to medical device **use**, self care, self-directed exercises, or therapy sessions. Both patient and health-care provider affect compliance, and a positive physician-patient relationship is the most important factor in improv...
1819. ...UK adults, nearly seven million people, had problems with basic skills, especially functional literacy and functional numeracy, described as: "The ability to read, write and speak in English, and to **use** mathematics at a level necessary to function at work and in society in general." This made it impossible for them to effectively take medication, read labels, follow drug regimes, and find out more....
1820. ...found that 40% of elderly patients do not know the purpose of their regimen and only 20% knew the consequences of non-adherence. Comprehension, polypharmacy, living arrangement, multiple doctors, and **use** of compliance aids was correlated with adherence. In children with asthma, self-management compliance is critical and co-morbidities have been noted to affect outcomes; in 2013 it has been suggested...
1821. ...ing industry with representatives of European patients organisations. The mission of HCPC-Europe is to assist and to educate the healthcare sector in the improvement of patient compliance through the **use** of packaging solutions. A variety of packaging solutions have been developed by this collaboration. The World Health Organization (WHO) groups barriers to medication adherence into five categories; h...
1822. ...dherence to medication. For example, text messaging has been used to remind patients to take medication in patients with chronic conditions such as asthma and hypertension. Other examples include the **use** of smartphones for synchronous and asynchronous Video Observed Therapy (VOT) as a replacement for the currently resource intensive standard of Directly Observed Therapy (DOT) (recommended by the WHO)...
1823. ...anagement. Other mHealth interventions for improving adherence to medication include smartphone applications, voice recognition in interactive phone calls and Telepharmacy. Some results show that the **use** of mHealth improves adherence to medication and is cost-effective, though some reviews report mixed results. Studies show that using mHealth to improve adherence to medication is feasible and accepte...
1824. ...ide) increases the risk of severe asthma attacks requiring preventable ER visits and hospitalisations; compliance issues with asthma can be caused by a variety of reasons including: difficult inhaler **use**, side effects of medications, and cost of the treatment. 200,000 new cases of cancer are diagnosed each year in the UK. One in three adults in the UK will develop cancer that can be life-threatening,...
1825. ...ntipsychotics took the medication prescribed to them infrequently or not at all. Sometimes non-adherence is due to lack of insight, but psychotic disorders can be episodic and antipsychotics are then **use** prophylactically to reduce the likelihood of relapse rather than treat symptoms and in some cases individuals will have no further episodes despite not using antipsychotics. A 2006 review investigate...
1826. ...greatly between individuals in ways that can be ethnically specific.  Though enzyme activity is genetically influenced, it can also be altered by cultural and environmental factors such as diet, the **use** of other medications, alcohol and disease states. If two individuals have the same blood level of a medication there may still be differences in the way that the body responds due to pharmacodynamic...
1827. ...ale subjects. Because there is often a greater difference "within" racial and ethnic groups than between them, researchers must be certain they choose prototypical representatives of these groups, or **use** a larger random sample. Further, because broad racial and ethnic groups have many different subgroups. For example, in North American research it may not be enough to characterize individuals as Asia...
1828. ...may however be problematic in certain applications due to possible changes in the molecule polarity. Fluorine-18 is one of the early tracers used in positron emission tomography (PET), having been in **use** since the 1960s. Its significance is due to both its short half-life and the emission of positrons when decaying.  A major medical use of fluorine-18 is: in positron emission tomography (PET) to imag...
1829. ...acers used in positron emission tomography (PET), having been in use since the 1960s. Its significance is due to both its short half-life and the emission of positrons when decaying.  A major medical **use** of fluorine-18 is: in positron emission tomography (PET) to image the brain and heart; to image the thyroid gland; as a radiotracer to image bones and seeking cancers that have metastasized from othe...
1830. ...suet or adeps, which is dry. The ancient Romans distinguished fat into "pinguedo" or "axungia", and "adeps" or sebum; but writers often interchange the terms. In pre-modern medicine, physicians made **use** of the axungia of the goose, the dog, the viper, and some others, especially that of humans, considered of "extraordinary service in the drawing and ripening of tumors, etc." (see attrahent) From Fre...
1831. ...to have 'sovereign' virtues. One such example was an unguent composed of rosin, wax, pitch, and oil, which pre-modern surgeons used as a suppurative. The German physician Wilhelm Fabry described the **use** of basilicon ointments in the treatment of burns. English physicians in the early nineteenth century reported their use in the prevention of gangrene. IPLEDGE program The iPLEDGE program is a program...
1832. ...urgeons used as a suppurative. The German physician Wilhelm Fabry described the use of basilicon ointments in the treatment of burns. English physicians in the early nineteenth century reported their **use** in the prevention of gangrene. IPLEDGE program The iPLEDGE program is a program by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) intended to manage the risk of birth defects caused by isotretinoin, a p...
1833. ...anage the risk of birth defects caused by isotretinoin, a prescription medication used for the treatment of acne. Patients, their doctors and their pharmacists are required by the FDA to register and **use** the iPLEDGE web site in order to receive, prescribe or dispense isotretinoin. Isotretinoin carries a high risk of causing severe birth defects if taken during pregnancy ("see Teratogenicity of isotre...
1834. ...E REMS (risk evaluation and mitigation strategy) program are to prevent fetal exposure to isotretinoin and to inform prescribers, pharmacists, and patients about isotretinoin's serious risks and safe-**use** conditions. The iPLEDGE program was put into place a group formed by the companies that manufactured the drug at the time called the Isotretinoin Products Manufacturing Group (IPMG) under the directi...
1835. .... Effective December 13, 2021 iPLEDGE switched to gender neutral categories: patients who can get pregnant and patients who cannot get pregnant. Patients who can get pregnant are required to pick and **use** two birth control methods (abstinence included), and must take doctor-administered pregnancy tests in two consecutive months. After the second (confirmatory) negative pregnancy test, the patient must...
1836. ...ate isotretinoin-induced birth defects by preventing exposure to the drug during pregnancy. The program mandated two consecutive negative pregnancy tests, birth defect risk counseling and a pledge to **use** two forms of contraception when engaging in intercourse for all people assigned female at birth of childbearing age seeking an isotretinoin prescription. A voluntary registration program called The A...
1837. ...urveyed, many pregnant people reported that their physicians had attempted to downplay the risks of isotretinoin or violated the standards in other ways, such as failing to inform them of the need to **use** two forms of birth control or allowing them to substitute a single, less-accurate urine pregnancy test conducted in the doctor's office for the two laboratory-conducted blood pregnancy tests mandated...
1838. ...%) who have the capacity to become pregnant. Criticisms of the iPLEDGE program include the following: When the Program launched in March 2006, there were many complaints about how difficult it was to **use** the system. Launch and pre-launch difficulties were common with the system. Glitches with the website and long hold times were rampant at the time, and became a focus of physician and patient ire. Ph...
1839. ...include that the website does not clearly identify who administers the site, despite being a mandatory program that requires the submission of private information about medical patients. The terms of **use** and legal disclaimer section of the site do not clearly identify the legal entity running the program or describe how the private information of the patients is secured. The terms of use for the site...
1840. ...The terms of use and legal disclaimer section of the site do not clearly identify the legal entity running the program or describe how the private information of the patients is secured. The terms of **use** for the site is phrased as a contract between "you" and "the sponsors of the Site" (which it defines as synonymous with "iPLEDGE"), without clearly saying who "the sponsors of the Site" includes. The...
1841. ...long with John Knowles, Carr founded NanoSight Ltd in 2003. This United Kingdom-based company, of which Knowles is the chairman and Carr is the chief technology officer, manufactures instruments that **use** NTA to detect and analyze small particles in industrial and academic laboratories. In 2004 Particle Metrix GmbH was founded in Germany by Hanno Wachernig. Particle Metrix makes the ZetaView, which op...
1842. ...ological activity plays a crucial role since it suggests uses of the compounds in the medical applications. However, chemical compounds may show some adverse and toxic effects which may prevent their **use** in medical practice. Biological activity is usually measured by a bioassay and the activity is generally dosage-dependent, which is investigated via dose-response curves. Further, it is common to hav...
1843. ...ive drug, a compound not only must be active against a target, but also possess the appropriate ADME (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, and Excretion) properties necessary to make it suitable for **use** as a drug. Because of the costs of the measurement, biological activities are often predicted with computational methods, so-called QSAR models. Bioactivity is a key property that promotes osseointeg...
1844. ...ing a target biological effect in the organism. This allows modification of the effect or the potency of a bioactive compound (typically a drug) by changing its chemical structure. Medicinal chemists **use** the techniques of chemical synthesis to insert new chemical groups into the biomedical compound and test the modifications for their biological effects. This method was refined to build mathematical...
1845. ...far the most popular. Hormonal contraception is highly effective: when taken on the prescribed schedule, users of steroid hormone methods experience pregnancy rates of less than 1% per year. Perfect-**use** pregnancy rates for most hormonal contraceptives are usually around the 0.3% rate or less. Currently available methods can only be used by women; the development of a male hormonal contraceptive is a...
1846. ...s. Additionally, estrogen in the pills stimulates the liver to produce more of a protein that binds to androgens and reduces their activity. Modern contraceptives using steroid hormones have "perfect-**use**" or "method" failure rates of less than 1% per year. The lowest failure rates are seen with the implants Jadelle and Implanon, at 0.05% per year. According to "Contraceptive Technology", none of thes...
1847. ..."Contraceptive Technology", none of these methods has a failure rate greater than 0.3% per year. The SERM ormeloxifene is less effective than the steroid hormone methods; studies have found a perfect-**use** failure rate near 2% per year. Long-acting methods such as the implant and the IUS are user-independent methods. For user-independent methods, the "typical" or "actual-use" failure rates are the same...
1848. ...tudies have found a perfect-use failure rate near 2% per year. Long-acting methods such as the implant and the IUS are user-independent methods. For user-independent methods, the "typical" or "actual-**use**" failure rates are the same as the method failure rates. Methods that require regular action by the user—such as taking a pill every day—have typical failure rates higher than perfect-use failure rat...
1849. ...or "actual-use" failure rates are the same as the method failure rates. Methods that require regular action by the user—such as taking a pill every day—have typical failure rates higher than perfect-**use** failure rates. "Contraceptive Technology" reports a typical failure rate of 3% per year for the injection Depo-Provera, and 8% per year for most other user-dependent hormonal methods. While no large...
1850. ...tened risk of cardiovascular disease. Smoking (for women over 35), metabolic conditions like diabetes, obesity and family history of heart disease are all risk factors which may be exacerbated by the **use** of certain hormonal contraceptives. Oral contraceptives have also been linked to an inflated risk of myocardial infarction, arterial thrombosis, and ischemic stroke. Hormonal contraception methods ar...
1851. ...whether changes in the endometrium could actually prevent implantation. The primary mechanisms of action are so effective that the possibility of fertilization during combined hormonal contraceptive **use** is very small. Since pregnancy occurs despite endometrial changes when the primary mechanisms of action fail, endometrial changes are unlikely to play a significant role, if any, in the observed effe...
1852. ...ration for possible implantation of an embryo). While they are believed to prevent implantation rather than fertilization, exactly how these effects operate to prevent pregnancy is not understood The **use** of emergency contraceptives (ECs) allows for the prevention of a pregnancy after unprotected sex or contraception failure. In the United States, there are currently four different methods available,...
1853. ...States, there are currently four different methods available, including ulipristal acetate (UPA), an oral progesterone receptor agonist-antagonist; levonorgestrel (LNG), an oral progestin; off-label **use** of combined oral contraceptives (Yuzpe regimen); and the copper intrauterine device (Cu-IUD). UPA, a progesterone agonist-antagonist, was approved by the FDA in 2010 for use as an EC. UPA acts as a p...
1854. ...oral progestin; off-label use of combined oral contraceptives (Yuzpe regimen); and the copper intrauterine device (Cu-IUD). UPA, a progesterone agonist-antagonist, was approved by the FDA in 2010 for **use** as an EC. UPA acts as a partial agonist and antagonist of the progesterone receptor and works by preventing both ovulation and fertilization. Users of UPA are likely to experience delayed menses afte...
1855. ...ion for levonorgestrel is not needed and can be found over the counter at local pharmacies. Because levonorgestrel does not have any life-threatening side effects, it has been approved by the FDA for **use** by all age groups. The Yuzpe regimen used combination oral contraceptives for EC and has been used since 1974. This regimen is no longer commonly used due to side effects such as nausea and vomiting,...
1856. ...by being placed in the uterus after an oral EC has been taken. Pills—combined and progestogen-only—are the most common form of hormonal contraception. Worldwide, they account for 12% of contraceptive **use**. 21% of users of reversible contraceptives choose COCPs or POPs. Pills are especially popular in more developed countries, where they account for 25% of contraceptive use. Injectable hormonal contrac...
1857. ...unt for 12% of contraceptive use. 21% of users of reversible contraceptives choose COCPs or POPs. Pills are especially popular in more developed countries, where they account for 25% of contraceptive **use**. Injectable hormonal contraceptives are also used by a significant portion—about 6%—of the world's contraceptive users. Other hormonal contraceptives are less common, accounting for less than 1% of c...
1858. ...hormonal contraceptives are also used by a significant portion—about 6%—of the world's contraceptive users. Other hormonal contraceptives are less common, accounting for less than 1% of contraceptive **use**. In 1921, Ludwig Haberlandt demonstrated a temporary hormonal contraception in a female rabbit by transplanting ovaries from a second, pregnant, animal. By the 1930s, scientists had isolated and dete...
1859. ...iliated with the American Society of Consultant Pharmacists. It is also headquartered in Alexandria, Virginia.  The mission of the Foundation is "to foster appropriate, effective, and safe medication **use** in older persons." It sponsors research, administers programs, holds traineeships in pharmacy practice (particularly consultant pharmacy practice), and performs other educational and outreach functio...
1860. ...ed to surgical or other therapy; for example, in oncology, medical oncology is thus distinguished from surgical oncology. Today's pharmacological therapy has evolved from a long history of medication **use**, and it has changed most rapidly in the last century due to advancements in drug discovery. The therapy is administered and adjusted by healthcare professionals according to the evidence-based guidel...
1861. ...sider medication compliance. Medication compliance, or medication adherence, is defined as the degree to which the patient follows the therapy that is recommended by the healthcare professionals. The **use** of medicinal substances can be traced back to 4000 BC in the Sumer civilization. Healers at the time (called apothecaries), for example, understood the application of opium for pain relief. The histo...
1862. ...tion of opium for pain relief. The history of natural remedies can also be found in other cultures, including traditional Chinese medicine in China and Ayurvedic medicine in India, which are still in **use** nowadays. Dioscorides, a 1st -century Greek surgeon, described more than six hundred animals, plants, and their derivatives in his medical botany, which remained the most influential pharmacopeia for...
1863. ...he evidence using a systematic method, aiming to provide care with quality. The guidelines cannot substitute clinical judgment, as they cannot meet all the circumstances. Healthcare professionals can **use** the clinical guidelines as references or evidence to support their clinical judgement when prescribing therapy to patients. Example: Clinical Guideline for controlling blood pressure (hypertension) I...
1864. ...care professionals observed or measure the patient's drug-taking behavior. Indirect method refers to the healthcare professionals do not observe or measure the drug-taking behavior of the patient but **use** the other source of information to evaluate the compliance. The direct method includes measurement of drug (or the corresponding metabolite) concentration, while the indirect method includes pill cou...
1865. ...for quality control training as it would be hard to confirm the patient's adherence. Pharmacists are experts in pharmacotherapy and are responsible for ensuring the safe, appropriate, and economical **use** of pharmaceutical drugs. The skills required to function as a pharmacist require knowledge, training and experience in biomedical, pharmaceutical and clinical sciences. Pharmacology is the science th...
1866. ...ge, training and experience in biomedical, pharmaceutical and clinical sciences. Pharmacology is the science that aims to continually improve pharmacotherapy. The pharmaceutical industry and academia **use** basic science, applied science, and translational science to create new pharmaceutical drugs. As pharmacotherapy specialists and pharmacists have responsibility for direct patient care, often functio...
1867. ...e active components in these organisms. In England in 1640, the idea of using mould as a form of medical treatment was recorded by apothecaries such as the botanist John Parkinson, who documented the **use** of moulds to treat infections in his book on pharmacology. In 17th-century Poland, wet bread was mixed with spider webs (which often contained fungal spores) to treat wounds. The technique was mentio...
1868. ...United Kingdom at the time. Three sources were initially chosen for investigation: "Bacillus subtilis", "Trueperella pyogenes" and penicillin. "[The possibility] that penicillin could have practical **use** in clinical medicine", Chain later recalled, "did not enter our minds when we started our work on penicillin." The broad subject area was deliberately chosen to be one requiring long-term funding. Ho...
1869. ...tion required a container with a large surface area. Initially, glass bottles laid on their sides were used. Most laboratory containers did not provide a large, flat area, and so were an uneconomical **use** of incubator space. The bedpan was found to be practical, and was the basis for specially-made ceramic containers fabricated by J. Macintyre and Company in Burslem. These containers were rectangular...
1870. ...the time was ripe to conduct a second series of clinical trials. Ethel Florey was placed in charge, but while Howard Florey was a consulting pathologist at Oxford hospitals, and therefore entitled to **use** their wards and services, Ethel, to his annoyance, was accredited merely as his assistant. Doctors tended to refer patients to the trial who were in desperate circumstances rather than the most suita...
1871. ...rcival Hartley, the head of the MRC; and representatives from pharmaceutical companies. This led to the mass production of penicillin by the next year. Knowing that large-scale production for medical **use** was futile in a laboratory, the Oxford team tried to convince the war-torn British government and private companies to engage in mass production, but the initial response was muted. Dr Blount, direct...
1872. ...in began reaching the troops in New Guinea in December 1943. By 1944, CSL was producing 400 million Oxford units per week, and there was sufficient penicillin production to allocate some for civilian **use**. Wartime production in Australia was in bottles and flasks, but Bazeley made a second tour of facilities in the United States between September 1944 and March 1945 and was impressed by the progress m...
1873. ...Istituto Superiore di Sanità to deliver a series of lectures on penicillin and Marotta took the opportunity to recruit him as a colleague. Chain suggested that instead of building a pilot plant, they **use** the UNRRA money to build an institute for research into penicillin. This became the largest of its kind in the world, with over one hundred chemists, biochemists, microbiologists and technicians, and...
1874. ...progress difficult. The milk churns needed for shipment were in short supply, and special arrangements were made with the Ministry of Supply. The brew was initially despatched by rail to minimise the **use** of rationed petrol. The first of brew, containing 6.1 million units at 9 units per mL, were delivered to Florey on 28 October 1942. Kemball, Bishop & Co. built an extraction plant, which became opera...
1875. ...UK increased from 25 million units per week in March 1943 to 30 billion per week in 1946. The WPB placed penicillin under a wartime allocation system on 16 July 1943. All supplies were designated for **use** by the armed forces and the Public Health Service. Penicillin production in the United States ramped up from 800 million Oxford units in the first half of 1943 to 20 billion units in the second half....
1876. ...ow its manufacturing cost, to $6 in 1945 ().  The chairman of the NRC committee on chemotherapy, Chester Keefer was responsible for administering the equitable distribution of penicillin for civilian **use** on behalf of the CMR. As the news of the effectiveness of penicillin spread, he had to deal with a large volume of requests for the drug. Supplies for civilian use were initially small, and penicilli...
1877. ...ribution of penicillin for civilian use on behalf of the CMR. As the news of the effectiveness of penicillin spread, he had to deal with a large volume of requests for the drug. Supplies for civilian **use** were initially small, and penicillin was initially provided only for cases with a high mortality rate that did not respond to other forms of treatment. In January 1943, he reported to OSRD on the res...
1878. ...ted over one hundred cases and compiled a report that ran to over a hundred pages. Florey gave lectures on penicillin, and his report contained recommendations for training of medical officers in its **use**. The fighting in North Africa ended in May 1943, so most of the cases Florey saw were not recently wounded soldiers, but ones with old wounds that had not healed; battle casualties began arriving aga...
1879. ...oposed leaving that to the penicillin. Florey's recommendations were acted upon; the War Office established a training course for pathologists and clinicians at the Royal Herbert Hospital, which made **use** of film that Florey shot in North Africa. Although he intended that penicillin be used to treat the seriously wounded, there were large numbers of venereal disease cases, against which penicillin was...
1880. ...before methicillin was introduced. This demonstrated that new drugs intended to circumvent known resistance mechanisms could be rendered ineffective by bacterial adaptations caused by the widespread **use** of other antibiotics. Penicillin patents became a matter of concern and conflict. Chain had wanted to apply for a patent but Florey had objected, arguing that penicillin should benefit all. Florey so...
1881. ...he parsimonious MRC. In April 1945, the British firm Glaxo signed agreements with Squibb and Merck under which it paid 5 per cent royalties on its sales of penicillin for five years in return for the **use** of their deep submergence fermentation techniques. Glaxo paid almost £500,000 () in royalties between 1946 and 1956. The controversy over patents led to the establishment of the UK National Research...
1882. ...for the preparation of semisynthetic penicillins, with various improvements over benzylpenicillin. Ampicillin was developed by the Beecham Research Laboratories in London. When introduced to clinical **use** in 1961 it was the first semisynthetic penicillin that could be taken orally that was effective against both Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms. It was more advantageous than the original peni...
1883. ...ives were colonized by bacteria when they arrived; after three months, seven out of ten were. The problem was sloppy hygiene practices by health care workers, poor medical practices like prophylactic **use** of antibiotics, and slipshod administrative practices, such as taking babies from their mothers to large hospital nurseries where they could infect each other. Antibiotic-resistant infections were re...
1884. ...cated that adding penicillin to animal feed also improved feed conversion efficiency, promoted more uniform growth and facilitated disease control. After the Food and Drug Administration approved the **use** of penicillin as feed additives for poultry and livestock in 1951, the pharmaceutical companies ramped up production to meet the demand. By 1954, the United States was producing of antibiotics each y...
1885. ...ed the poultry industry, which consumed of antibiotics each year, compared to for hogs and for cattle. A 1981 study by the Council for Agricultural Science and Technology estimated that banning their **use** in animal feed could cost American consumers up to $3.5 billion a year (equivalent to $ billion in ) in increased food prices. The story was similar in the UK, where 44 per cent of antibiotic product...
1886. ...n in milk worldwide. People who were allergic to penicillin could now get a reaction from drinking milk. A committee chaired by Lord Netherthorpe was established in the UK in 1960 to inquire into the **use** of antibiotics in animal feed. In 1962, the committee recommended that restrictions on the use of antibiotics in animals be relaxed. It contended that the benefits were substantial and that even if b...
1887. ...ing milk. A committee chaired by Lord Netherthorpe was established in the UK in 1960 to inquire into the use of antibiotics in animal feed. In 1962, the committee recommended that restrictions on the **use** of antibiotics in animals be relaxed. It contended that the benefits were substantial and that even if bacteria became resistant, new antibiotics would soon be developed, and there was no evidence th...
1888. ...only were able to inherit the genes for antibiotic resistance, but they could also communicate them to each other. In 1967, a multiresistant strain of "E. coli" killed fifteen children in the UK. The **use** of antibiotics in animals for nontherapeutic use was banned there in 1971. Many other European countries soon followed. When Sweden acceded to the European Union (EU) in 1995, a total ban on antibiot...
1889. ...c resistance, but they could also communicate them to each other. In 1967, a multiresistant strain of "E. coli" killed fifteen children in the UK. The use of antibiotics in animals for nontherapeutic **use** was banned there in 1971. Many other European countries soon followed. When Sweden acceded to the European Union (EU) in 1995, a total ban on antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) had been in place ther...
1890. ...his coincided with the United Kingdom BSE outbreak, which resulted in intense political pressure. In December 1996, the European Parliament's Standing Committee on Health and Welfare voted to ban the **use** of AGPs. The EU went further and recommended broad restrictions on the use of antibiotics. Kendal Black Drop Kendal Black Drop was a drug based on opium. Named after Kendal on the edge of the Lake Di...
1891. ...se political pressure. In December 1996, the European Parliament's Standing Committee on Health and Welfare voted to ban the use of AGPs. The EU went further and recommended broad restrictions on the **use** of antibiotics. Kendal Black Drop Kendal Black Drop was a drug based on opium. Named after Kendal on the edge of the Lake District, England, it is associated with the romantic poet, Samuel Taylor Col...
1892. ...equipment and processes and derived from the engineering practices used in delivery of large pieces of equipment that would be manufactured, tested, delivered and accepted according to a contract The **use** of validation spread to other areas of industry after several large-scale problems highlighted the potential risks in the design of products. The most notable is the Therac-25 incident. Here, the sof...
1893. ...e problems highlighted the potential risks in the design of products. The most notable is the Therac-25 incident. Here, the software for a large radiotherapy device was poorly designed and tested. In **use**, several interconnected problems led to several devices giving doses of radiation several thousands of times higher than intended, which resulted in the death of three patients and several more being...
1894. ...ies for each process or groups of similar processes or similar equipment's must be documented and approved in a validation plan. These documents, terms and references for the protocol authors are for **use** in setting the scope of their protocols. It must be based on a Validation Risk Assessment (VRA) to ensure that the scope of validation being authorised is appropriate for the complexity and importanc...
1895. ...cal Processing, also known as the 'bluebook'. Recently both the American FDA and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency have added sections to the regulations specifically for the **use** of computer systems. In the UK, computer validation is covered in Annex 11 of the EU GMP regulations (EMEA 2011). The FDA introduced 21 CFR Part 11 for rules on the use of electronic records, electro...
1896. ...gulations specifically for the use of computer systems. In the UK, computer validation is covered in Annex 11 of the EU GMP regulations (EMEA 2011). The FDA introduced 21 CFR Part 11 for rules on the **use** of electronic records, electronic signatures (FDA 1997). The FDA regulation is harmonized with ISO 8402:1994, which treats "verification" and "validation" as separate and distinct terms. On the other...
1897. ...A regulation is harmonized with ISO 8402:1994, which treats "verification" and "validation" as separate and distinct terms. On the other hand, many software engineering journal articles and textbooks **use** the terms "verification" and "validation" interchangeably, or in some cases refer to software "verification, validation, and testing (VV&T)" as if it is a single concept, with no distinction among th...
1898. ...rdware that the application uses, any interfaces to other systems, the users, training and documentation as well as the management of the system and the validation itself after the system is put into **use**. The PIC/S guideline (PIC/S 2004) defines this as a 'computer related system'. Much effort is expended within the industry upon validation activities, and several journals are dedicated to both the p...
1899. ...e spread thinly compared to a cream or ointment and may economically cover a large area of skin, but product research has steadily eroded this distinction. Non-comedogenic lotions are recommended for **use** on acne prone skin. Lotions can be used for the delivery to the skin of medications such as: Since health care workers must wash their hands frequently to prevent disease transmission, hospital-grade...
1900. ...nt exposure to cleaning agents in the soap. A 2006 study found that application of hospital-grade lotion after hand washing significantly reduced skin roughness and dryness. Care must be taken not to **use** consumer lotions in a hospital environment, as the perfumes and allergens may be a danger to those who are immunodeficient or with allergies. Most cosmetic lotions are moisturizing lotions, although...
1901. ...esigned to be non-comedogenic (not causing outbreaks). All topical products, including lotions, can result in the percutaneous (through the skin) absorption of their ingredients. Though this has some **use** as a route of drug administration, it more commonly results in unintended side effects. For example, medicated lotions such as diprolene are often used with the intention of exerting only local effec...
1902. ...applied to damaged or broken skin. Lotions containing some aromas or food additives may trigger an immune reaction or even cause users to develop new allergies. There is currently no regulation over **use** of the term "hypoallergenic", and even pediatric skin products with the label were found to still contain allergens. Those with eczema are especially vulnerable to an allergic reaction with lotion, a...
1903. ...rast agent of MRI out of iron oxide (rust) which can detect cancers and kill them at their initial stages. Silica (glass) can be used to bend or stop lights in their tracks. Developing countries also **use** silicone to make circuits for the fluids used in pathogen detection. Nano-construct synthesis leads to the self-assembly of the building blocks into functional structures that may be useful for elect...
1904. ...noparticles were being manufactured and sold in USA and Germany as substitutes for ultrafine carbon black for rubber reinforcements. Over the past two decades, iron oxide nanoparticles for biomedical **use** had increased dramatically, largely due to its ability of non-invasive imaging, targeting and triggering drug release, or cancer therapy. Stem or immune cell could be marked with iron oxide nanoparti...
1905. ...that certain nanoparticles of silver are useful to inhibit some viruses and bacteria. Materials in certain cosmetics such as sun cream, moisturizer, and deodorant may have potential benefits from the **use** of nanochemistry. Manufacturers are working to increase the effectiveness of various cosmetics by facilitating oil nanoemulsion. These particles have extended the boundaries in managing wrinkling, de...
1906. ...ce decreases. In addition, their efficiency in electron transport which is due to the quantum confinement effect, makes their electrical properties be influenced by minor perturbation. Therefore, the **use** of these nanowires in nanosensor elements increases the sensitivity in electrode response. As mentioned above, the one-dimensionality and chemical flexibility of the semiconductor nanowires make them...
1907. ...allowed them to create a complex structure on their surface that can meet the needs of specific applications Fluorescent nanoparticles are highly sought after. They have broad applications, but their **use** in macroscopic arrays allows them efficient in applications of plasmonics, photonics, and quantum communications. While there are many methods in assembling nanoparticles array, especially gold nanop...
1908. ...les, proteins antibodies, therapeutics, and nucleic acids can bind to its surface allowing for drug delivery, protein-mimicking, and surgical implants. Other potential biomedical applications are the **use** of nanodiamonds as support for solid-phase peptide synthesis and as sorbents for detoxification and separation and fluorescent nanodiamonds for biomedical imaging. Nanodiamonds are capable of biocomp...
1909. ...er nano-scale. Nanolithography is often used together with thin-film-deposition, self-assembly, and self-organization techniques for various nanofabrications purpose. Many practical applications make **use** of nanolithography, including semiconductor chips in computers. There are many types of nanolithography, which include: Each nanolithography technique has varying factors of the resolution, time cons...
1910. ...cates a shift from solid-like to molecular-like behavior which occurs at a reported cluster the size of 4.5 – 3.0 nm. Interest in the magnetic properties of nanoclusters exists due to their potential **use** in magnetic recording, magnetic fluids, permanent magnets, and catalysis. Analysis of Fe clusters shows behavior consistent with ferromagnetic or superparamagnetic behavior due to strong magnetic int...
1911. ...ensional materials that have demonstrated superior electrical, optical, mechanical, and thermal properties and can be used potentially as biological sensors. Research under Lieber has delved into the **use** of nanowires mapping brain activity. Shimon Weiss, a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, is known for his research of fluorescent semiconductor nanocrystals, a subclass of quantum...
1912. ...semiconductor nanocrystals, a subclass of quantum dots, for biological labeling. Paul Alivisatos, from the University of California, Berkeley, is also notable for his research on the fabrication and **use** of nanocrystals. This research has the potential to develop insight into the mechanisms of small-scale particles such as the process of nucleation, cation exchange, and branching. A notable applicati...
1913. ...f the system it should describe is in or close to thermodynamic equilibrium. There are only very few studies about the structure of dispersions (emulsions), although they are plentiful in type and in **use** all over the world in innumerable applications (see below). In the following, only such dispersions with a dispersed phase diameter of less than 1 μm will be discussed. To understand the formation an...
1914. ...withstand extremely high temperatures to maintain operation. The degradation of coastal aquifers is a direct result of seawater intrusion into the and dispersion into the aquifer following excessive **use** of the aquifer. When an aquifer is depleted for human use, it is naturally replenished by groundwater moving in from other areas. In the case of coastal aquifers, the water supply is replenished both...
1915. ...on. The degradation of coastal aquifers is a direct result of seawater intrusion into the and dispersion into the aquifer following excessive use of the aquifer. When an aquifer is depleted for human **use**, it is naturally replenished by groundwater moving in from other areas. In the case of coastal aquifers, the water supply is replenished both from the land boundary on one side and the sea boundary o...
1916. ...ndary on the other side. After excessive discharge, saline water from the sea boundary will enter the aquifer and disperse in the freshwater medium, threatening the viability of the aquifer for human **use**. Several different solutions to seawater intrusion in coastal aquifers have been proposed, including engineering methods of artificial recharge and implementing physical barriers at the sea boundary....
1917. ...has two varieties: The "Dakshinavarta shankha" is believed to be the abode of the prosperity goddess Lakshmi – the consort of Vishnu, and hence this type of shankha is considered ideal for medicinal **use**. It is a very rare variety from the Indian Ocean. This type of shankha has three to seven ridges visible on the edge of the aperture and on the columella and has a special internal structure. The rig...
1918. ...tase, which is then incorporated into cysteine by enzyme. Cysteine, once synthesized, can be used for the biosynthesis of methionine and other important biomolecules. In addition, microorganisms also **use** sulfur-containing compounds for various other purposes, such as the synthesis of antibiotics. Sulfur assimilation in microorganisms is regulated by a variety of environmental factors, including the a...
1919. ...is a Nigerian federal agency under the Federal Ministry of Health that is responsible for regulating and controlling the manufacture, importation, exportation, advertisement, distribution, sale, and **use** of food, drugs, cosmetics, medical devices, chemicals, and packaged water. The agency is headed by Dr. Monica Eimunjeze in an acting capacity on November 12, 2022, according to an internal memo dated...
1920. ...xtra need for caution and compulsion to respect and obey existing regulations both for healthy, living and knowledge of certain sanctions or default. Despite the establishment of NAFDAC, the sale and **use** of fake drugs did not end. Dissatisfied with progress in combating fake drugs, President Olusegun Obasanjo's administration dissolved the management of NAFDAC in August 2000. In April 2001, a new man...
1921. ...only used for short-term treatment and can be purchased with or without a prescription. Before using ear drops, refer to the package insert or consult a health professional for the amount of drops to **use** and the duration of treatment. Prior to using the medication, refer to package label for specific instructions or ask a local pharmacist. Check to make sure a tamper-evident seal is intact and the me...
1922. ...eenagers: For children under 3: For children 3 and over: Eye drops can generally be used safely in the ears, but ear drops should never be used in the eyes. Prescribers must specifically indicate the **use** of eye drops for ear drops on the prescription; do not make this substitution without consulting a medical provider. Side effects from using ear drops used to remove ear wax are uncommon, but may res...
1923. ...croorganisms, this does not offer long term protection from contamination. The shelf life of ear drops varies with products generally needing to be discarded within 4 weeks after opening. With proper **use** and storage, ear drops should remain effective and safe until the expiration date printed in the medication package insert. Ear wax, also known as cerumen, protects the ear from dust, bacteria, and s...
1924. ...consult a doctor. Another method to break up earwax is by using body temperature water. While having the head upright, straighten the ear canal by gently pulling the upper outer ear back and up. Then **use** a syringe (do not use jet irrigator that is designed for teeth cleaning) to aim a small gentle stream of water at the ear canal wall next to the ear wax to be removed. Next, tilt the head to allow wa...
1925. ...her method to break up earwax is by using body temperature water. While having the head upright, straighten the ear canal by gently pulling the upper outer ear back and up. Then use a syringe (do not **use** jet irrigator that is designed for teeth cleaning) to aim a small gentle stream of water at the ear canal wall next to the ear wax to be removed. Next, tilt the head to allow water to drain and repea...
1926. ...t, tilt the head to allow water to drain and repeat if necessary. After removing the ear wax, allow the ear to dry thoroughly. Adding a few drops of alcohol in the ear may help to dry the ear. Do not **use** irrigation or ear drops if there is a hole in the ear drum or had recent ear surgery to prevent damage or infection in the ears. Otitis externa, also known as swimmer's ear, is an inflammation (infec...
1927. ...biotics include: Antibiotics for ear infections are prescribed for infections that are recurrent or difficult for the body to clear. Antibiotic ear drops should be used as prescribed. Do not stop the **use** of medication even if the infection appears cleared because remaining bacteria can cause the infection to return. Otic analgestic-anesthetic are drops that can help alleviate swelling, pain and conge...
1928. ...l study conducted in England and Wales that reported that an analgestic-anesthetics could reduce the amount of antibiotics being used in children. While the study did show evidence of less antibiotic **use**, it did not meet the sample size goal of 96 participants. Additionally did not evaluate if pain relief was linked to reduced antibiotic use. International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers &...
1929. ...ldren. While the study did show evidence of less antibiotic use, it did not meet the sample size goal of 96 participants. Additionally did not evaluate if pain relief was linked to reduced antibiotic **use**. International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers &amp; Associations The International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) is a trade association that represents...
1930. ...ction since it is known what certain functional components of the drug are responsible for when interacting with a certain area on a protein, thus leading to a therapeutic effect. Omics based methods **use** omics technologies, such as chemoproteomics, reverse genetics and genomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics, to identify the potential targets of the compound of interest. Reverse genetics and genomi...
1931. ...ear in the field of microbiology or certain aspects of biology. Bio Process Systems Alliance The Bio Process Systems Alliance (BPSA) is a biopharmaceutical industry trade group of suppliers of single **use** components and single use systems for manufacturing processes. It was created in 2006 through an alliance of 26 suppliers. Biodiversity and drugs Biodiversity plays a vital role in maintaining human...
1932. ...iology or certain aspects of biology. Bio Process Systems Alliance The Bio Process Systems Alliance (BPSA) is a biopharmaceutical industry trade group of suppliers of single use components and single **use** systems for manufacturing processes. It was created in 2006 through an alliance of 26 suppliers. Biodiversity and drugs Biodiversity plays a vital role in maintaining human and animal health because...
1933. ...pan, India, and Germany, there is a great deal of interest in and support for the search for new drugs from higher plants. For example, the Herbalome Project was launched in China in 2008 and aims to **use** high throughput sequencing and toxicity testing to identify active components in traditional herbal remedies. Sweet Wormwood ("Artemisia annua") grows in all continents besides Antarctica. It is the...
1934. ...ctivity of various bacteria, viruses, and parasites and exhibits anti-cancer and anti-inflammatory properties. Animal-derived drugs are a major source of modern medications used around the world. The **use** of these drugs can cause certain animals to become endangered or threatened; however, it is difficult to identify the animal species used in medicine since animal-derived drugs are often processed, w...
1935. ...uctures in when developing new molecular entities. Databases containing chemical structures of compounds used in alternative medicine along with their phenotypic effects, in silico analysis may be of **use** to assist in determining MOA for example, by predicting ligand targets that were relevant to known phenotypes for traditional medicines. In a case study for TCM, the therapeutic class of ‘toning and...
1936. ...a groove to both indicate that a pill may be split and to aid the practice of splitting pills. When manufacturers do create grooves in pills, the groove must be consistent for consumers to be able to **use** them effectively. Many manufacturers choose to not use grooves. The United States government Center for Drug Evaluation and Research makes the following recommendations for manufacturers when scoring...
1937. ...to aid the practice of splitting pills. When manufacturers do create grooves in pills, the groove must be consistent for consumers to be able to use them effectively. Many manufacturers choose to not **use** grooves. The United States government Center for Drug Evaluation and Research makes the following recommendations for manufacturers when scoring pills with grooves: In the U.S. "uniformity of dosage...
1938. ...ase of multidrug-resistant pathogens and tumors. Such an alternative may be outside of extant regulatory requirements or medical best practices, in which case it may be viewed as salvage therapy. The **use** of a drug of last resort may be based on agreement among members of a patient's care network, including physicians and healthcare professionals across multiple specialties, or on a patient's desire t...
1939. ...le in the management of atherosclerosis in both coronary and peripheral arterial interventions. They help improve blood flow and reduce the risk of restenosis, thereby improving patient outcomes. The **use** of DESs is accompanied by appropriate medical therapy and lifestyle modifications to manage atherosclerosis effectively. Stenosis of blood vessels refers to the narrowing of the blood vessels, which...
1940. ...uncture in a peripheral artery, avoiding the need to open the chest wall. While bleeding from the puncture site was once a concern, advancements in PCI practices have mitigated this issue through the **use** of pressure bands and arterial closure systems. Modern DES/PCI procedures are generally painless, although some mild discomfort may be experienced. In PCI, multiple DES are sometimes implanted within...
1941. ...sure systems. Modern DES/PCI procedures are generally painless, although some mild discomfort may be experienced. In PCI, multiple DES are sometimes implanted within a single patient; the decision to **use** multiple stents is typically contingent on the extent of the coronary artery disease present and the number of diseased coronary arteries that require treatment. DESs have emerged as the primary ther...
1942. ...the peripheral arteries. By deploying DESs, healthcare professionals can effectively address and alleviate the complications associated with PAOD, enhancing patient outcomes and quality of life. The **use** of DESs in peripheral arterial interventions has shown encouraging results in terms of primary patency (PP) and target lesion revascularization (TLR) compared with bare-metal stents (BMSs). Different...
1943. ...table: Bleeding disorders make DES unsuitable because of the need for anticoagulation drugs (blood thinners) during the procedure and in post-stenting aftercare. Other factors that could rule out the **use** of stents include a history of in-stent blockage, bleeding problems, complex or unsuitable coronary anatomy, or a short life expectancy due to other serious medical conditions. Stent placement risks...
1944. ...of DES technology, the incidence of ISR has significantly decreased. DES have been shown to be superior to BMS in reducing short-term complications of stenting in saphenous vein grafts. However, the **use** of DESs in bypass grafts was not their originally intended use nor within the scope of originally regulatory approval (US FDA, European Medicines Agency, etc.). The practice of using a medical device...
1945. ...eased. DES have been shown to be superior to BMS in reducing short-term complications of stenting in saphenous vein grafts. However, the use of DESs in bypass grafts was not their originally intended **use** nor within the scope of originally regulatory approval (US FDA, European Medicines Agency, etc.). The practice of using a medical device or drug in a way not specified in the original or current appr...
1946. ...roval (US FDA, European Medicines Agency, etc.). The practice of using a medical device or drug in a way not specified in the original or current approved labeling is often referred to as "off-label" **use**. In regions were cardiac stenting has become commonplace, think tanks and advocacy groups express concern about the overzealous use of stents, because patients who received stents for unapproved reas...
1947. ...al or current approved labeling is often referred to as "off-label" use. In regions were cardiac stenting has become commonplace, think tanks and advocacy groups express concern about the overzealous **use** of stents, because patients who received stents for unapproved reasons often have worse outcomes compared to patients who received stents for approved uses. People who receive a coronary stent have d...
1948. ...the procedure will speak directly with the patient/family and give them information about how things went, and follow-up instructions. The nursing staff will keep an eye on the person's condition and **use** tools like ECG to monitor their heart. To prevent a blood clot from forming in the stent, medications are given right after the procedure. One common medication is plavix, which is a potent blood thi...
1949. ...g process, universal testing machines induce bending, stretching, twisting, and putting pressure on vascular stents from various angles. The specific properties of each type of stent and its intended **use** depend on the results of testing, and vice versa: different types of stents may need different or additional tests based on where they will be placed in the body and what they will be used for. Some...
1950. ...lled balloon angioplasty, in which a catheter was introduced through a peripheral artery and a balloon expanded to dilate the narrowed segment of the artery. As equipment and techniques improved, the **use** of PTCA rapidly increased, and by the mid-1980s, PTCA and CABG were being performed at equivalent rates. Balloon angioplasty was generally effective and safe, but restenosis was frequent, occurring i...
1951. ...etal stent in various settings. The trials showed a significant reduction in target lesion revascularization and major adverse cardiac events with the Taxus stent at 9 and 12 months. Both SES and PES **use** natural products as the active agents to prevent the recurrence of blockages in the arteries. These DES have changed the practice of interventional cardiology and have become the preferred treatment...
1952. ...w alloys were used, namely cobalt-chrome and platinum chrome, with improved performance. Bioresorbable stents have been developed in which the stent itself dissolves over time. Materials explored for **use** include magnesium, polylactic acid, polycarbonate polymers, and salicylic acid polymers. Resorbable stents have held the promise of providing an acute treatment that would eventually allow the vessel...
1953. ...e was €98,827 per quality-adjusted life-years gained. Avoiding one revascularization with DES would cost €4,794, when revascularization with BMS costs €3,2606. There were controversies related to the **use** of DES. In 2012, a meta-analysis of clinical trial data showed no benefit of the use of DES for people with stable coronary artery compared to treatment with drugs, yet, The New York Times interviewe...
1954. ...with DES would cost €4,794, when revascularization with BMS costs €3,2606. There were controversies related to the use of DES. In 2012, a meta-analysis of clinical trial data showed no benefit of the **use** of DES for people with stable coronary artery compared to treatment with drugs, yet, The New York Times interviewed David Brown, an author of the analysis, who said that more than half of patients wi...
1955. ...ulting the integrity of the entire profession. In 2013 the Times of India reported that DES were widely overused and that Indian distributors used profits from high markups on DES to bribe doctors to **use** them. In 2014 an investigation by the Maharashtra Food and Drug Administration found that high markups and bribery related to DES was still widespread. There have been several patent disputes related...
1956. ...hundreds of patients who received unnecessary DES implantation. The lawsuit alleged that Dr. Mark Midei, a cardiologist at the center, falsified the degree of coronary artery stenosis to justify the **use** of DES, exposing the patients to increased risks of thrombosis, bleeding, and infection. Another DES manufacturer, Cordis Corporation, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, was involved in lawsuits from...
1957. ...ty in Norway for new and existing medicines and the supply chain. The Agency is responsible for supervising the production, trials and marketing of medicines. It approves medicines and monitors their **use**, and ensures cost-efficient, effective and well-documented use of medicines. The inspectorate also supervises the supply-chain and regulates prices and trade conditions for pharmacies. Cadmia In alch...
1958. ...n. The Agency is responsible for supervising the production, trials and marketing of medicines. It approves medicines and monitors their use, and ensures cost-efficient, effective and well-documented **use** of medicines. The inspectorate also supervises the supply-chain and regulates prices and trade conditions for pharmacies. Cadmia In alchemy, cadmia (Latin for cadmium) is an oxide of zinc (tutty; fro...
1959. ...onsistent and predictable particle surface area is important. In biological systems, a microparticle is synonymous with a microvesicle, a type of extracellular vesicle (EV). Home pregnancy tests make **use** of gold microparticles. Many applications are also listed in the microsphere article. A recent study showed that infused, negatively charged, immune-modifying microparticles could have therapeutic us...
1960. ...se of gold microparticles. Many applications are also listed in the microsphere article. A recent study showed that infused, negatively charged, immune-modifying microparticles could have therapeutic **use** in diseases caused or potentiated by inflammatory monocytes. Microparticles can also be used during minimally invasive embolization procedures, such as hemorrhoidal artery embolization. Microspheres...
1961. ...ign, the purpose of exchanging one bioisostere for another is to enhance the desired biological or physical properties of a compound without making significant changes in chemical structure. The main **use** of this term and its techniques are related to pharmaceutical sciences. Bioisosterism is used to reduce toxicity, change bioavailability, or modify the activity of the lead compound, and may alter th...
1962. ...ale orgasm.  Drugs are frequently associated with reduced sexual inhibition, both when used voluntarily in social circumstances, and involuntarily, as in the case of some date rape drugs. Because the **use** of drugs, including alcohol, is commonly presented as an excuse for risky or socially unacceptable behavior, it is necessary to treat the idea of a direct causal relation between drug use and unsafe...
1963. ...Because the use of drugs, including alcohol, is commonly presented as an excuse for risky or socially unacceptable behavior, it is necessary to treat the idea of a direct causal relation between drug **use** and unsafe sex with caution. Drugs may provide a socially acceptable excuse for engaging in sexual behaviors in which people may want to engage but perhaps feel that they should not. Some forms of se...
1964. ...o an increased risk of sexually transmitted infection (STI). Drugs on the market provide both benefits and detrimental effects to the person, especially regarding sexual performance, depending on the **use** and dosage. Drugs are classified into different categories in respect to their functions, including psychoactive drugs, antihypertensive drugs, antihistamines, cancer treatment drugs and hormone medi...
1965. ...d impaired ability to ejaculate. Other laboratory research, on the other hand, found no significant influence of either low or high blood alcohol levels on measures of arousal. Even with mild alcohol **use**, women have decreased vaginal flow responses. In apparent contrast, women self-report heightened sexual desire and pleasure when they consume more alcohol and are more likely to engage in sexual acti...
1966. ...ido and risk-taking behavior in humans. Cocaine has been observed to increase sexual arousal or to trigger spontaneous erections and orgasms. In contrast, other data has shown that persistent cocaine **use** impairs sexual desire and the capacity of both men and females to achieve orgasm. Cannabis is the most commonly used illicit substance. Studies on cannabis and sex have shown that THC has been linked...
1967. ...fically, in one study, 70 percent of users said marijuana was an aphrodisiac, and 81 percent said it improved their sexual pleasure and satisfaction. Other research has found that long-term marijuana **use** lowers testosterone levels and other reproductive hormones, causing erectile dysfunction in males. MDMA or "ecstasy" originally gained popularity in the 1980s among college students. According to a s...
1968. ...h as morphine and heroin attach to opioid receptors in the brain. These substances have long been known to inhibit sexual behavior. Similar to the effects of psycho-stimulants, both men and women who **use** heroin report engaging in high-risk sexual practices. Subjects typically report having several sexual partners, using condoms seldom or not at all, and having a high frequency of STI diagnosis. While...
1969. ...having several sexual partners, using condoms seldom or not at all, and having a high frequency of STI diagnosis. While small doses of heroin may enhance sexual desire and performance, chronic opiate **use**, including methadone and buprenorphine, synthetic and semi-synthetic opiates prescribed for opiate addiction treatment, results in decreased sexual desire, response, and orgasms for both men and wome...
1970. ...ine such as vaginal estrogen. Vaginal dryness results from a declined level in circulating estrogen within the body, most likely during menopause. Treatment for vaginal dryness typically involves the **use** of localised estrogen, such as HRT medicine. This drug works by increasing estrogen in the body circulation, thereby enhancing lubrication production in the vaginal area. Delayed ejaculation, a type...
1971. ...simple cerate, (from Latin "wax") is an unctuous preparation for external application, of a consistency intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster. It can be spread upon cloth without the **use** of heat, but does not melt when applied to the skin.  Cerate consists essentially of wax (for which resin, lead acetate or spermaceti is sometimes substituted) mixed with oil, lard, and various medic...
1972. ...only to the enzyme E in the absence of substrate S, to the enzyme–substrate complex ES, or to both. The division of these classes arises from a problem in their derivation and results in the need to **use** two different binding constants for one binding event. It is further assumed that binding of the inhibitor to the enzyme results in 100% inhibition and fails to consider the possibility of partial in...
1973. ...boratory. Naturally occurring enzyme inhibitors regulate many metabolic processes and are essential for life. In addition, naturally produced poisons are often enzyme inhibitors that have evolved for **use** as toxic agents against predators, prey, and competing organisms. These natural toxins include some of the most poisonous substances known. Artificial inhibitors are often used as drugs, but can also...
1974. ...a-adrenergic agonists. Various vasoactive agents, such as prostanoids, phosphodiesterase inhibitors, and endothelin antagonists, are approved for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. The **use** of vasoactive agents for patients with pulmonary hypertension may cause harm and unnecessary expense to persons with left heart disease or hypoxemic types of lung diseases. Alcohol and Drugs History...
1975. ...bu Dawood reports, "Prophet Muhammad said: 'Among the best types of collyrium is antimony ("ithmid") for it clears the vision and makes the hair sprout.'" Maimonides (12th century Egypt) mentions the **use** of this eye salve. List of pharmacy associations The following is a list of organizations for professionals involved in the practice of pharmacy. Such organizations are typically professional societi...
1976. ...egistered pharmacists. Until September 2010, in Great Britain, registration with the GPhC automatically made pharmacists members of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain, allowing them to **use** the postnominal letters "MRPharmS" (Member of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain). However, in September 2010, the RPS separated its regulatory role, and the new regulatory body, the G...
1977. ...ed to current registration as a pharmacist. In Northern Ireland, regulation remains under the PSNI, so registration as a pharmacist and membership of the PSNI still occur simultaneously, allowing the **use** of the post-nominals "MPSNI" (Member of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland). In Ireland, the MPharm is awarded after five years: four years of undergraduate study leading to a BSc.Pharm a...
1978. ...ed into three different categories, depending on the entrance point into the GI tract: oral (by mouth), gastric (through the stomach), and rectal (from the rectum). (Gastric introduction involves the **use** of a tube through the nasal passage (NG tube) or a tube in the belly leading directly to the stomach (PEG tube). Rectal administration usually involves rectal suppositories.) The mechanism for drug a...
1979. .... an MD, where MBBS is the foreign equivalent of MD. The degree provides training to understand the properties and impacts of medicines and develop the skills required to counsel patients about their **use**. Bachelor of Pharmacy degree holders can choose various career paths, including being a pharmacist, doing patient counseling, doing further studies such as a master's degree, working in a university...
1980. ...velopment of workshops, symposia, and seminars for physicians, medical societies, specialty organizations, academicians, in concert, concerned with drug related medical topics" in 1967 and with first **use** in commerce in 1967. As the number of MSL programs in healthcare increased, subsequent peer-reviewed journal publications and books became available to examine the emerging role of medical affairs an...
1981. ...mmerce in 1967. As the number of MSL programs in healthcare increased, subsequent peer-reviewed journal publications and books became available to examine the emerging role of medical affairs and the **use** of MSLs in an increasingly vertically integrated biotechnology industry. MSLs build relationships with key opinion leaders or thought leaders and health care providers, providing critical windows of...
1982. ...l technique within the medicinal chemistry industry the approach has had an expeditious increase. While not knowing the structure trying to predict how the ligands will bind to the receptor. With the **use** of pharmacophore features each ligand identified donor, and acceptors. Equating features are overlaid, however given it is unlikely there is a single correct solution. This technique is used when mer...
1983. ...asses and more than one binding mode. Models prioritize compounds for lead discovery. Machine learning algorithms have been widely used in virtual screening approaches. Supervised learning techniques **use** a training and test datasets composed of known active and known inactive compounds. Different ML algorithms have been applied with success in virtual screening strategies, such as recursive partition...
1984. ...ts of the cells are analyzed. The most common analysis involves labeling proteins with fluorescent tags, and finally changes in cell phenotype are measured using automated image analysis. Through the **use** of fluorescent tags with different absorption and emission maxima, it is possible to measure several different cell components in parallel. Furthermore, the imaging is able to detect changes at a sub...
1985. ...mpounds. However the identification of the biological target will make subsequent preclinical optimization and clinical development of the compound hit significantly easier. Given the increase in the **use** of phenotypic/visual screening as a cell biological tool, methods are required that permit systematic biochemical target identification if these molecules are to be of broad use. Target identificatio...
1986. ...n the increase in the use of phenotypic/visual screening as a cell biological tool, methods are required that permit systematic biochemical target identification if these molecules are to be of broad **use**. Target identification has been defined as the rate limiting step in chemical genetics/high-content screening. High-content screening technology is mainly based on automated digital microscopy and fl...
1987. ...a single analysis platform. Some instrument software provides bulk importing and exporting of images and data, for users who want to do such standardization on a single analysis platform without the **use** of third-party software, however. This technology allows a (very) large number of experiments to be performed, allowing explorative screening. Cell-based systems are mainly used in chemical genetics...
1988. ...histicated measurements soon followed using new fluorescent molecules, which are used to measure cell properties like second messenger concentrations or the pH of internal cell compartments. The wide **use** of the green fluorescent protein, a natural fluorescent protein molecule from jellyfish, then accelerated the trend toward cell imaging as a mainstream technology in cell biology. Despite these advan...
1989. ...a mailbox in the sun could reach while the ambient air temperature was . Shipment by express mail and couriers reduces transit time and often involves delivery to the door, rather than a mailbox. The **use** of insulated shipping containers also helps control drug temperatures, reducing risks to drug safety and efficacy. The British Community Pharmacy Patient Safety Group was concerned that online pharma...
1990. ...ugs' history and closure." "[A lack of] regulatory control over drug advertisements on television or the Internet" combined with a growing E-commerce in India has led to a significant increase in the **use** of online pharmacies.<ref name="http://www.livemint.com/Home-Page/NFIWys7sX5w4TX7RzrqrKI/Lax-regulation-sees-India-becoming-a-haven-for-illegal-onlin.html"></ref> The Indian government is planning to...
1991. ...emphasis on its low-waste and low-cost method of manufacturing. Additionally, a 2020 publication discussed successful synthesis of nanofoam films from silver, gold, copper, and palladium through the **use** of a modified vacuum thermal evaporation method. Metallic nanofoams have seen a broad variety of applications, including catalysts, hydrogen storage, as well as fuel cells. Additionally, applications...
1992. ...ucture are a current point of modern research and development. They have many applications in the fields of mechanical, chemical, and biomedical engineering, including filtration, air management, and **use** in electrical systems. The underlying principle is to merge pores of different sizes into a material with a large surface area (thanks to smaller pores), which in turn allows efficient molecular tran...
1993. ...mula_3 These equations apply equally when measuring the total receptor density or the residual receptor density available after binding to second ligand - availability. BP is a pivotal measure in the **use** of positron emission tomography (PET) to measure the density of "available" receptors, e.g. to assess the occupancy by drugs or to characterize neuropsychiatric diseases (yet, one should keep in mind...
1994. ...rs who are active in this field agreed to a consensus nomenclature for these terms, with the intent of making the literature in this field more transparent to non-specialists. The convention involves **use** of the subscripts p for quantities referred to plasma and ND for quantities referred to the free plus nonspecifically bound concentration in brain (NonDisplaceable). Under the consensus nomenclature,...
1995. ...on, the society advocates to government agencies, such as the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on public policy issues related to medication **use** and public health. Dublin Molecular Medicine Centre Dublin Molecular Medicine Centre (DMMC) was a charity set up in 2002, to create critical mass in molecular medicine research in Dublin, Ireland. Fu...
1996. ...planar case, L=0. When using the Poisson–Boltzmann equation, it is important to determine if the specific case is low or high potential. The high-potential case becomes more complex so if applicable, **use** the low-potential equation. In the low-potential condition, the linearized version of the Poisson–Boltzmann equation (shown below) is valid, and it is commonly used as it is more simple and spans a w...
1997. ...h light is collected. A smaller focus of the laser beam yields a coarser speckle pattern, a lower number of speckle on the detector, and thus a larger second-order autocorrelation. The most important **use** of the autocorrelation function is its use for size determination. Dynamic light scattering provides insight into the dynamic properties of soft materials by measuring single scattering events, meani...
1998. ...e laser beam yields a coarser speckle pattern, a lower number of speckle on the detector, and thus a larger second-order autocorrelation. The most important use of the autocorrelation function is its **use** for size determination. Dynamic light scattering provides insight into the dynamic properties of soft materials by measuring single scattering events, meaning that each detected photon has been scatt...
1999. ...in the market also allow automatic angle selection based on a continuous transmittance measurement. At the lower end of the turbidity range, the Cavity Amplified Scattering Spectroscopy method makes **use** of an integrating cavity to elongate photon paths through quasi non-scattering samples. As opposed to conventional DLS instruments, this method is angle independent as it probes samples isotropically...
2000. ...s facilitated when particles do not interact through collisions or electrostatic forces between ions. Particle-particle collisions can be suppressed by dilution, and charge effects are reduced by the **use** of salts to collapse the electrical double layer. The simplest approach is to treat the first-order autocorrelation function as a single exponential decay. This is appropriate for a monodisperse popu...
2001. ...efficient may be derived at a single angle or at a range of angles depending on the wave vector . One must note that the cumulant method is valid for small and sufficiently narrow . One should seldom **use** parameters beyond μ, because overfitting data with many parameters in a power-series expansion will render all the parameters, including formula_10 and μ, less precise. The cumulant method is far les...
2002. ...ains information about the axis perpendicular to the central axis of the particle, and contains information about the axis parallel to the central axis. In 2007, Peter R. Lang and his team decided to **use** dynamic light scattering to determine the particle length and aspect ratio of short gold nanorods. They chose this method since it does not destroy the sample and it has a relatively easy setup. Both...
2003. ...tabilizer for the enzyme activity of V-PPase. Manganese like magnesium plays a crucial role as a co-factor in various enzymes though its concentration is noticeably lower than the other. Enzymes that **use** manganese as a co-factor are known as "manganoproteins." These proteins include enzymes, like oxidoreductases, transferases and hydrolases, which are necessary for metabolic functions and antioxidant...
2004. ...noparticle has a heightened advantage over a conventional drug. It is able to circulate throughout the body for an extended period of time until it is successfully attracted to its target through the **use** of cell-specific ligands, magnetic positioning, or pH responsive materials. Because of these advantages, side effects from conventional drugs will be largely reduced as a result of the drug-loaded na...
2005. ...as a controlled-release therapy. Biodegradable particles bearing ligands to P-selectin, endothelial selectin (E-selectin) and ICAM-1 have been found to adhere to inflamed endothelium. Therefore, the **use** of biodegradable particles can also be used for cardiac tissue. There are biocompatible microalgae hybrid microrobots for active drug-delivery in the lungs and the gastrointestinal tract. The microro...
2006. ...ation of systems for DNA computing, has led to speculation that artificial nucleic acid nanodevices can be used to target drug delivery based upon directly sensing its environment. These methods make **use** of DNA solely as a structural material and a chemical, and do not make use of its biological role as the carrier of genetic information. Nucleic acid logic circuits that could potentially be used as...
2007. ...nucleic acid nanodevices can be used to target drug delivery based upon directly sensing its environment. These methods make use of DNA solely as a structural material and a chemical, and do not make **use** of its biological role as the carrier of genetic information. Nucleic acid logic circuits that could potentially be used as the core of a system that releases a drug only in response to a stimulus su...
2008. ...to deaths. The costs related to heart attacks exceed $60 billion per year. Therefore, there is a need to come up with an optimum recovery system. The key to solving this problem lies in the effective **use** of pharmaceutical drugs that can be targeted directly to the diseased tissue. This technique can help develop many more regenerative techniques to cure various diseases. The development of a number o...
2009. ...erimental Therapeutics, the IUPHAR Education Section organized a series of workshops, mostly in Africa, to train young investigators on ethical laboratory practices, including the three Rs of ethical **use** of animals. IUPHAR Pharmacology Education Project is a website developed by IUPHAR, with support from the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics (ASPET), as a learning resour...
2010. ...m the American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics (ASPET), as a learning resource to support education and training in the pharmacological sciences. The materials are intended for **use** by students of pharmacology, clinical pharmacologists, and others interested in the pharmacological sciences. The stated aim is to produce a simple, attractive, easily searchable resource that will s...
2011. ...of action, cavitation, was discovered. Cavitational effects are inversely proportional to the frequency of the ultrasound applied, which led to further studies of low-frequency sonophoresis (LFS) for **use** in transdermal drug delivery due to studies showing greater efficacy in enhancing skin permeability in comparison to HFS. Low-frequency sonophoresis usually includes a range between 20 and 100 kHz. F...
2012. ...r of the skin, a layer that prevents foreign substances from penetrating the body. Transdermal drug delivery is patient-compliance, usually avoids digestive system degradation, and has the ability to **use** drugs with short half-lives. While increased skin permeability is seen through sonophoresis, the precise mechanisms to describe sonophoresis are yet to be fully discovered. However, there are several...
2013. ...will increase the permeability of the skin. These areas of increased permeability are often called localized transport regions, where there is lower electrical resistivity. One potential method is to **use** cavitation seed at the surface of the skin. Another potential method is to use ultrasound-responsive liquid-core nuclei (URLN). Low-frequency ultrasound is seen as the optimal level of ultrasound fre...
2014. ...ty are often called localized transport regions, where there is lower electrical resistivity. One potential method is to use cavitation seed at the surface of the skin. Another potential method is to **use** ultrasound-responsive liquid-core nuclei (URLN). Low-frequency ultrasound is seen as the optimal level of ultrasound frequency. This is typically characterized as 20 to 100 kHz (sometimes 18 to 100 k...
2015. ...2019 study, they used the drug diclofenac in coordination with thiocolchioside gel to treat patients who suffer from acute lower back pain. An application of a drug serving as a coupling agent is the **use** of piroxicam gel mixtures and dexamethasone sodium phosphate gel mixtures to treat patients who suffer from carpal tunnel syndrome. Various conditions that can be addressed include cervical spine pai...
2016. ...matoid arthritis, and venous thrombosis. Examples of drugs that have been used with sonophoresis include hydrocortisone, mannitol, dexamethasone, and lidocaine. Several products have been marketed to **use** phonophoresis for transdermal drug delivery. A potential future application of phonophoresis is to use it with vaccines, as phonophoresis is considered a less painful alternative to needles. Another...
2017. ...e hydrocortisone, mannitol, dexamethasone, and lidocaine. Several products have been marketed to use phonophoresis for transdermal drug delivery. A potential future application of phonophoresis is to **use** it with vaccines, as phonophoresis is considered a less painful alternative to needles. Another potential use is in cancer therapeutics; one such application that has been explored is the delivery of...
2018. ...esis for transdermal drug delivery. A potential future application of phonophoresis is to use it with vaccines, as phonophoresis is considered a less painful alternative to needles. Another potential **use** is in cancer therapeutics; one such application that has been explored is the delivery of cisplatin for patients who have cervical cancer. Genetic skin diseases and wound healing may be assisted by p...
2019. ...will increase the efficacy of treatments. Areas of sonophoretic research include the application of various drugs, dual-frequency sonophoresis, combined transdermal drug delivery techniques, and the **use** of nanoparticles to carry drugs. At an optimal frequency, phonophoresis will be painless and have minimal to no risk. The heat that is emitted from ultrasound use can also be damaging to the surface...
2020. ...al drug delivery techniques, and the use of nanoparticles to carry drugs. At an optimal frequency, phonophoresis will be painless and have minimal to no risk. The heat that is emitted from ultrasound **use** can also be damaging to the surface of the skin, and cavitation can potentially lead to tissue damage. Nanoparticle toxicity is another potential risk. Specol Specol (trade name Stimune) is a water i...
2021. ...een used once: in 2008-2009, Apotex, Inc. used the Regime to manufacture and export two shipments of a patented antiretroviral medication to Rwanda. Apotex has since stated that it does not intend to **use** the Regime again unless it is reformed, claiming that the Regime imposes unnecessary bureaucratic and economic obstacles. A private members' bill that would reform the CAMR was tabled in the House of...
2022. ...ry technology, an artificial vesicle designed to exhibit the characteristics of a cell vesicle suitable for controlled and potentially targeted drug delivery. Some evidence has shown efficacy for its **use** for drug delivery without causing skin irritation, potentially being used to treat skin cancer. Transfersome is made by the German company IDEA AG. Coalescer A coalescer is a device which induces coa...
2023. ...ly used to separate emulsions into their components via various processes, operating in reverse to an emulsifier. Coalescers are of two main types: mechanical and electrostatic. Mechanical coalescers **use** filters or baffles to make droplets coalesce, while electrostatic coalescers use DC or AC electric fields (or combinations). Mechanical coalescers, which are the more common type of coalescers, opera...
2024. ...ing in reverse to an emulsifier. Coalescers are of two main types: mechanical and electrostatic. Mechanical coalescers use filters or baffles to make droplets coalesce, while electrostatic coalescers **use** DC or AC electric fields (or combinations). Mechanical coalescers, which are the more common type of coalescers, operate by physically altering a droplet by "mechanical" means. They are commonly appl...
2025. ...tant changing of cartridges can lead to operator exposure to BTX (benzene, toluene and xylene), as well as disposal issues and high operating costs from frequent replacement. Electrostatic coalescers **use** electrical fields to induce droplet coalescence in water-in-crude-oil emulsions to increase the droplet size. The squared dependence of droplet diameter in Stokes' law, increase the settling speed an...
2026. ...WHO Programme. A WHO global individual case safety report database (VigiBase) is maintained and developed on behalf of the WHO by UMC. UMC develops and provides several tools and classifications for **use** by organisations involved in drug safety, including the WHO Drug Dictionary – with a bridge to the MedDRA terminology and WHO ICD – tools for searching in the database, and a program for case report...
2027. ...ially statistical techniques), dis-proportionality analyses, interaction detection, patterns and duplicate case detection, safety surveillance and signaling (among which drug dependence and pediatric **use**) and benefit—risk analysis. As of 2023 over 200 scientific articles in peer-reviewed journals were linked on the centre's website. UMC has been active in initiatives to improve communication in areas...
2028. ...ovigilance (ESOP), is an international non-profit scientific organisation, which aims to foster pharmacovigilance both scientifically and educationally, and enhance all aspects of the safe and proper **use** of medicines, in all countries. Its official journal is "Drug Safety". Swedish bitters Swedish bitters, also called Swedish tincture, is a bitter and a traditional herbal tonic, the use of which date...
2029. ...fe and proper use of medicines, in all countries. Its official journal is "Drug Safety". Swedish bitters Swedish bitters, also called Swedish tincture, is a bitter and a traditional herbal tonic, the **use** of which dates back to the 15th century. Swedish bitters is said to have been formulated in a similar way to ancient bitters by Paracelsus and rediscovered by 18th century Swedish medics Dr. Klaus Sa...
2030. ...anscription factor via its complex with a sensor protein based on ferrous porphyrins. Organometallic compounds containing mercury (e.g., thiomersal) and arsenic (e.g. Salvarsan) had a long history of **use** in medicine as nonselective antimicrobials before the advent of modern antibiotics.  Titanocene dichloride displays anti-cancer activity, and dichloridobis[("p"-methoxybenzyl)cyclopentadienyl]titaniu...
2031. ...em and providing information to Canadians so they can make healthy, informed decisions about their health. HPFB has ten operational Directorates with direct regulatory responsibilities: Extraordinary **Use** New Drugs (EUNDs) is a regulatory programme under which, in times of emergency, drugs can be granted regulatory approval under the "Food and Drug Act" and its regulations. An EUND approved through th...
2032. ...ls. The EUND pathway was developed to allow a mechanism for authorization of these drugs based on non-clinical and limited clinical information. A manufacturer of a new drug may file an extraordinary **use** new drug submission for the new drug if, under paragraph C.08.002.01(1): The HPFB signed an electronic data interchange agreement with the US Food and Drug Administration in November 2003, and again...
2033. .... Hospital pharmacies may provide a huge quantity of medications per day which is allocated to the wards and to intensive care units according to a patient's medication schedule. Larger hospitals may **use** automated transport systems to aid in the efficient distribution of medications. Hospital pharmacists and trained pharmacy technicians compound sterile products for patients such as total parenteral...
2034. ...c studies serve to guide optimal healthcare resource allocation, in a standardized and scientifically grounded manner. Pharmacoeconomics centers on the economic evaluation of pharmaceuticals, and can **use** cost-minimization analysis, cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis or cost-utility analysis. Quality-adjusted life years have become the dominant outcome of interest in pharmacoeconomic e...
2035. ...e principles of pharmacoeconomics for various drugs and treatment options so that maximum improvement in quality of life can be achieved in minimum cost. In 1993, Australia became the first nation to **use** pharmacoeconomic analysis as part of the process for deciding whether new drugs should be subsidized by the Federal Government. The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) advises Federal G...
2036. ...ded on to a dispensed medication package by a pharmacist in addition to the usual prescription label. These labels are intended to provide supplementary information regarding the safe administration, **use**, and storage of the medication. Auxiliary labels provide information which can augment but not replace verbal counselling from a pharmacist. Auxiliary labels became popular during the second half of...
2037. ...econd half of the nineteenth century. In 2013, the first recommendations for auxiliary label usage in the United States were published as USP Chapter <17>. This included a recommendation to limit the **use** of auxiliary labels to evidence-based labels with critical information, and without pictures unless evidence shows increased efficacy when a picture is used. It is further recommended that labels are...
2038. ...aving to turn or rotate the package. Auxiliary labels are small stickers consisting of one or more lines of text intended to enhance patient knowledge, with or without a pictogram. The directions for **use** included on the standard prescription label are typically limited to direct administration information, such as how often, when, and how to take the medication. As such, auxiliary labels are used for...
2039. ...direct administration information, such as how often, when, and how to take the medication. As such, auxiliary labels are used for additional information that is not included in those directions for **use** printed on the label, or information which cannot fit on the prescription label itself due to limited space. Overall, auxiliary labels contain information intended to promote proper medication adhere...
2040. ...w health literacy. Sometimes auxiliary labels are used not to add additional information to the packaging, but instead to reinforce information with a pictorial representation of the instructions for **use**. This may consist of a pictoral representation of the frequency of use, time of day to take, the administration route, or other information. Picture representations of directions can be useful for pa...
2041. ...ional information to the packaging, but instead to reinforce information with a pictorial representation of the instructions for use. This may consist of a pictoral representation of the frequency of **use**, time of day to take, the administration route, or other information. Picture representations of directions can be useful for patients with low literacy, or who have trouble reading and comprehending...
2042. ...cause some people may have difficulty swallowing medications whole, auxiliary labels may be used to provide advice on solutions, such as whether the medication can be chewed, crushed, or cut. Another **use** of auxiliary labels is important information on side effects or drug/food interactions.  A 2016 study found that many patients consider side effects to be important information to be included on a pr...
2043. ...e and that auxiliary labels are a good tool to provide this information on the packaging itself (as opposed to a separate information sheet/handout). The same study found that patients associated the **use** of red as a highlight color with information regarding warnings, allergies, or side effects. Deciding what auxiliary labels are suitable for a particular prescription requires knowledge of the drug's...
2044. ...age found that about 80% of dispensed prescriptions would benefit from at least one auxiliary label to reinforce information, or provide additional important information aside from the directions for **use**. The most common auxiliary labels on prescriptions include "May cause drowsiness" and "alcohol may intensify the effect of this medication". There is no standard for how to place auxiliary labels on...
2045. ...o read the text. The same study found a wide variation in coloring used on auxiliary labels from different pharmacies, and that between 8-25% of prescriptions filled had no warning labels at all. The **use** of auxiliary labels does not substitute for pharmacist consultation about medications, nor for any supplemental medication guides or handouts recommended or required to be distributed with a drug. Au...
2046. ...t medications, nor for any supplemental medication guides or handouts recommended or required to be distributed with a drug. Auxiliary labels should only be used to remind or enhance instructions for **use** or warnings that have already been given by the pharmacist or doctor to the patient verbally. Auxiliary labels can commonly be misinterpreted, especially when multi-step or multi-part instructions ar...
2047. ...ther than English. Common elements considered to increase the chance of effectiveness of an auxiliary label include a single-step instruction, using easy-to-read text (for example, low Lexile score), **use** of clear, simple icons (if present), use of color to represent severity, and clarity of the instruction being represented. Font size and style, including boldface or capitalization patterns, can also...
2048. ...ered to increase the chance of effectiveness of an auxiliary label include a single-step instruction, using easy-to-read text (for example, low Lexile score), use of clear, simple icons (if present), **use** of color to represent severity, and clarity of the instruction being represented. Font size and style, including boldface or capitalization patterns, can also impact the effectiveness of an auxiliary...
2049. ...cy in general be consulted during the design process for auxiliary labels to improve the chance for comprehension and effectiveness. Biotechnology in pharmaceutical manufacturing Biotechnology is the **use** of living organisms to develop useful products. Biotechnology is often used in pharmaceutical manufacturing. Notable examples include the use of bacteria to produce things such as insulin or human gr...
2050. ...logy in pharmaceutical manufacturing Biotechnology is the use of living organisms to develop useful products. Biotechnology is often used in pharmaceutical manufacturing. Notable examples include the **use** of bacteria to produce things such as insulin or human growth hormone. Other examples include the use of transgenic pigs for the creation of hemoglobin in use of humans.   Amongst the earliest uses o...
2051. ...oducts. Biotechnology is often used in pharmaceutical manufacturing. Notable examples include the use of bacteria to produce things such as insulin or human growth hormone. Other examples include the **use** of transgenic pigs for the creation of hemoglobin in use of humans.   Amongst the earliest uses of biotechnology in pharmaceutical manufacturing is the use of recombinant DNA technology to modify "Es...
2052. ...ufacturing. Notable examples include the use of bacteria to produce things such as insulin or human growth hormone. Other examples include the use of transgenic pigs for the creation of hemoglobin in **use** of humans.   Amongst the earliest uses of biotechnology in pharmaceutical manufacturing is the use of recombinant DNA technology to modify "Escherichia coli" bacteria to produce human insulin, which...
2053. ...growth hormone. Other examples include the use of transgenic pigs for the creation of hemoglobin in use of humans.   Amongst the earliest uses of biotechnology in pharmaceutical manufacturing is the **use** of recombinant DNA technology to modify "Escherichia coli" bacteria to produce human insulin, which was performed at Genentech in 1978. Prior to the development of this technique, insulin was extract...
2054. ...chia coli" bacteria, which were "induced to produce 100,000 molecules of either chain A or chain B human insulin." The two protein chains were then combined to produce insulin molecules. Prior to the **use** of recombinant DNA technology to modify bacteria to produce human growth hormone, the hormone was manufactured by extraction from the pituitary glands of cadavers, as animal growth hormones have no t...
2055. ...iation codon..." was produced with the codons for the first through 23rd amino acids in human growth hormone. The "two DNA fragments... [were] combined to form a synthetic-natural 'hybrid' gene." The **use** of entirely synthetic methods of DNA production to produce a gene that would be translated to human growth hormone in Escherichia coli would have been exceedingly laborious due to the significant len...
2056. ...ting factor produced using recombinant DNA technology to be approved. Recombinant DNA techniques have also been employed to create transgenic farm animals that can produce pharmaceutical products for **use** in humans. For instance, pigs that produce human hemoglobin have been created. While blood from such pigs could not be employed directly for transfusion to humans, the hemoglobin could be refined and...
2057. ...ons. It also includes almost 700 disease treatment reviews.  It was first published in 1883 under the title Martindale: The Extra Pharmacopoeia. "Martindale" contains information on drugs in clinical **use** worldwide, as well as selected investigational and veterinary drugs, herbal and complementary medicines, pharmaceutical excipients, vitamins and nutritional agents, vaccines, radiopharmaceuticals, co...
2058. ...have specialised in their goal of creating unique products and medicines as well as clinical trials. These include an S-Ketoprofen anti-inflammatory pharmaceutical, single isomer chiral synthons for **use** in new anti-viral drugs, a single-isomer levobupivacaine for local anaesthesia, the pre-eminent rapid bioluminescent test for bacterial contamination, numerous enzymes and proteins for use in clinica...
2059. ...nthons for use in new anti-viral drugs, a single-isomer levobupivacaine for local anaesthesia, the pre-eminent rapid bioluminescent test for bacterial contamination, numerous enzymes and proteins for **use** in clinical diagnostic tests, as well as stem cell therapies, immunotherapeutics, oncology drugs and respiratory devices. Evans was born in 1957, in Port Talbot, to Cyril and Jeanette (Cottey) Evans....
2060. ...Hull and Porton Down, followed by a research fellowship at the University of Michigan. Evans' first company, Enzymatix, was one of the earliest biotech companies in Europe. Its early work involve the **use** of cabbages and eggs to mass-produce phospholipids which were used in surfactants to help premature babies breathe. Evans was a co-founder of the biotech business Chiroscience, which was founded in 1...
2061. ...rded by actor Cillian Murphy. Proceeds from Evamore were donated to The Cancer Awareness Trust, a charity founded by Evans which aims to build ‘useful, reliable and easily understood information’ for **use** by individuals who have been diagnosed with cancer. Evans founded The UK Stem Cell Foundation in 2005, a charity focused on funding stem cell research. Case report form A case report form (or CRF) is...
2062. ...nurse-reported outcome, and so on. PRO methods, such as questionnaires, are used in clinical trials or other clinical settings, to help better understand a treatment's efficacy or effectiveness. The **use** of digitized PROs, or electronic patient-reported outcomes (ePROs), is on the rise in today's health research setting. PROs should not be confused with PCOs, or "patient-centered outcomes". The latte...
2063. ...PROs, or electronic patient-reported outcomes (ePROs), is on the rise in today's health research setting. PROs should not be confused with PCOs, or "patient-centered outcomes". The latter implies the **use** of a questionnaire covering issues and concerns that are specific to a patient. Instead, "patient-reported" outcomes refers to reporting situations in which only the patient provides information rela...
2064. ...goes beyond impairment and disability by asking about the patient's ability to fulfill their needs and also about their emotional response to their restrictions. A new generation of short and easy-to-**use** tools to monitor patient outcomes on a regular basis has been recently proposed. These tools are quick, effective, and easy to understand, as they allow patients to evaluate their health status and e...
2065. ...nsive to underlying change) and the structure of the scale (whether it possesses a single or multiple domains) should have been thoroughly tested using appropriate methodology in order to justify the **use** of scale or summary scores. The validation of the PRO measures should incorporate not only short-term but also long-term success in order to be able to reflect sustainability of interventions. Classi...
2066. ...treatment to people living with epilepsy across rural Maharashtra since 2011. Since 2018, they have been using MedEngage services to collect PROs from thousands of patients across the state. Patients **use** a zero-cost helpline to report outcomes every 2–3 months related to adherence, medicine availability, seizure frequency, healthcare related quality of life, and a few other parameters. All PROMs are...
2067. ...MARK I Kits when operating in circumstances where chemical weapons are considered a potential hazard. Along with the three kits are issued one CANA (Convulsive Antidote, Nerve Agent) for simultaneous **use**. (CANA is the drug diazepam or "Valium", an anticonvulsant.) Both of these kits are intended for use in "buddy aid" or "self aid" administration of the drugs prior to decontamination and delivery of...
2068. ...Along with the three kits are issued one CANA (Convulsive Antidote, Nerve Agent) for simultaneous use. (CANA is the drug diazepam or "Valium", an anticonvulsant.) Both of these kits are intended for **use** in "buddy aid" or "self aid" administration of the drugs prior to decontamination and delivery of the patient to definitive medical care for the condition. A newer model, the ATNAA (Antidote Treatmen...
2069. ...care for the condition. A newer model, the ATNAA (Antidote Treatment Nerve Agent Auto-Injector), has both the atropine and the pralidoxime in one syringe, allowing for simplified administration.  The **use** of a Mark 1 or ATNAA kit inhibits the nerve agents' purpose, thereby reducing the number of fatal casualties in the advent of chemical warfare. The kits should only be administered if nerve agents ha...
2070. ...vide proof of the effectiveness and safety of their drugs before approval. The majority of the tragic birth defects that occurred were in other countries because Thalidomide had not been approved for **use** in the United States. However, samples were distributed to physicians in the US and 17 birth defects were attributed to its use. Frances Oldham Kelsey was the FDA reviewer who refused to approve Thal...
2071. ...d were in other countries because Thalidomide had not been approved for use in the United States. However, samples were distributed to physicians in the US and 17 birth defects were attributed to its **use**. Frances Oldham Kelsey was the FDA reviewer who refused to approve Thalidomide for use. It introduced a "proof-of-efficacy" requirement for the first time. In addition, the Amendment required drug ad...
2072. ...ed States. However, samples were distributed to physicians in the US and 17 birth defects were attributed to its use. Frances Oldham Kelsey was the FDA reviewer who refused to approve Thalidomide for **use**. It introduced a "proof-of-efficacy" requirement for the first time. In addition, the Amendment required drug advertising to disclose accurate information about side effects and efficacy of treatment...
2073. ...ective had been superseded by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 laying down Community procedures for the authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary **use** and establishing a European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (5) and by Council Directive 88/182/EEC of 22 March 1988 amending Directive 83/189/EEC laying down a procedure for the prov...
2074. ...standards and regulations (6). Directive 2001/83/EC Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relates to medicinal products for human **use** in mainly countries that are part of the European Union. The Directive dealt with the disparities between certain national provisions, in particular between provisions relating to medicinal products,...
2075. ...tion of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human **use**) is a European Union directive that aimed at facilitating the internal market in medicinal products within the European Union, while at the same time maintaining an appropriate level of protection fo...
2076. ...e involved along with clinical scientists or technologists, with relevant training. Dosage form Dosage forms (also called unit doses) are pharmaceutical drug products presented in a specific form for **use**. They contain a mixture of active ingredients and inactive components (excipients), configured in a particular way (such as a capsule shell) and apportioned into a specific dose. For example, two pro...
2077. ...especially if certain conditions restrict the ROA. For example, if a patient is unconscious or experiencing persistent nausea and vomiting, oral administration may not be feasible, necessitating the **use** of alternative routes, such as inhalational, buccal, sublingual, nasal, suppository, or parenteral. A specific dosage form may also be required due to issues such as chemical stability or pharmacokin...
2078. ...s of a drug like paracetamol differ for the same reason. Talc is an excipient often used in pharmaceutical tablets that may end up being crushed to a powder against medical advice or for recreational **use**. Also, illicit drugs that occur as white powder in their pure form are often cut with cheap talc. Natural talc is cheap but contains asbestos while asbestos-free talc is more expensive. Inhaled talc...
2079. ...April 2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council) lays down principles and detailed guidelines for good clinical practice as regards conducting clinical trials of medicinal products for human **use**, as well as the requirements for authorisation of the manufacturing or importation of such products. The directive deals with the following items: European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and...
2080. ...de: EudraGMP EudraGMP is the database of the European Community of manufacturing authorisations and of certificates of good manufacturing practice. The EudraGMP system was launched in April 2007, for **use** by European Medicines Regulators. Access for the general public, via Internet, is available since 2009 using the URL : http://eudragmp.ema.europa.eu. EudraGMP is part of the EU telematics strategy, w...
2081. ...e syringe pull-back method of verifying sterile preparations. To increase accuracy, some U.S. hospitals have adopted IV workflow management systems and robotic compounding systems. These technologies **use** barcode scanning to identify each ingredient and gravimetric weight measurement to confirm the proper dose amount. The workflow management systems incorporate software to guide pharmacy technicians t...
2082. ...d in April 2014. Pharmacists must comply with current guidelines or may be sanctioned by the Board. Both sterile and non-sterile compounding are legal provided the compounding is done for therapeutic **use** in a particular patient, and the compounded product is supplied on or from the compounding pharmacy. There are additional requirements for sterile compounding. Not only must a laminar flow cabinet [l...
2083. ...cently requested the following authority from Congress: Various ideas have been proposed to expand federal US regulation in this area, including laws making it easier to identify misuse or misnomered-**use** and/or stricter enforcement of the longstanding distinction between "compounding" versus "manufacturing". Some US states have also taken initiatives to strengthen oversight of compounding pharmacies....
2084. ...coding, filing and retrieving of post-marketing adverse reaction reports. COSTART provides a method to deal with the variation in vocabulary used by those who submit adverse event reports to the FDA. **Use** of this dictionary allowed for standardization of adverse reaction reporting towards the FDA in a consistent way. COSTART was last updated in 1999. It has been replaced by the Medical Dictionary for...
2085. ...e authoritative document. For the "hard copy" produced from electronic source to be the authoritative document, it must be a complete and accurate copy of the electronic source. The manufacturer must **use** the hard copy (rather than electronic versions stored in the system) of the records for regulated activities. The current technical architecture of computer systems increasingly makes the Part 11, El...
2086. .... Its official long title is "An Act to make new provision with respect to medicinal products and related matters, and for purposes connected therewith." It governs the control of medicines for human **use** and for veterinary use, which includes the manufacture and supply of medicines, and the manufacture and supply of (medicated) animal feeding stuffs. The act defines three categories of medicine: pres...
2087. ...le is "An Act to make new provision with respect to medicinal products and related matters, and for purposes connected therewith." It governs the control of medicines for human use and for veterinary **use**, which includes the manufacture and supply of medicines, and the manufacture and supply of (medicated) animal feeding stuffs. The act defines three categories of medicine: prescription only medicines...
2088. ...classification of medicines in the UK see the Royal Pharmaceutical Society web site, and the publication "Medicines Ethics and Practice". The act was introduced following problems with the off-label **use** of thalidomide. The act established the forerunner to the current Commission on Human Medicines. Ceramic foam Ceramic foam is a tough foam made from ceramics. Manufacturing techniques include impregn...
2089. ...amic able to be suspended; however, large amounts of gaseous byproducts are released and cracking due to differences in thermal expansion coefficients is common. While the above are both based on the **use** of a sacrificial template, there are also direct foaming methods that can be used. These methods involve pumping air into a suspended ceramic before setting and sintering. This is difficult because w...
2090. ...e begins to boil, air bubbles are trapped in solution and locked in to place as the material is heated and polymer is burned off. Due to ceramics' extremely low thermal conductivity, the most obvious **use** of a ceramic is as an insulation material. Ceramic foams are notable in this regard because their composition by very common compounds, such as aluminum oxide, makes them completely harmless, unlike...
2091. ...heir high strength and hardness also allows them to be used as structural materials for low stress applications. With easily controlled porosities and microstructures, ceramic foams have seen growing **use** in evolving electronics applications. These applications include electrodes, and scaffolds for solid oxide fuel cells and batteries. Foams can also be used as cooling components for electronics by se...
2092. ...foam filter reduces impurities, including nonmetallic inclusions, in the liquid metal and the corresponding finished product (casting, sheet, billet, etc). It has found success in its application and **use** in continuous casting (sheet), semi-continuous casting (billet and slab), and casting gating systems in metal foundries. Due to the foam’s unique pore structure and large specific surface area, it se...
2093. ...ontinuous casting (sheet), semi-continuous casting (billet and slab), and casting gating systems in metal foundries. Due to the foam’s unique pore structure and large specific surface area, it sees a **use** as a filter for wastewater. The filtration process is a combination of adsorption, surface filtration, and deep filtration with deep filtration providing a majority of the filtration process. Close-c...
2094. ...cells allow the material to be resistant to corrosion and absorb sound internally and externally. Buildings in China have utilized ceramic foam as a thermal insulation material. Foam ceramics has its **use** in sound absorption in wet and oily environments. The sound waves vibrate in the pores of the foam and transform the energy into heat through friction and air resistance, thus reducing echos in the e...
2095. ...ugh friction and air resistance, thus reducing echos in the environment. Due to the three-dimensional connected mesh structure, high temperature resistance, and thermal stability of ceramic foam, its **use** in catalytic converters in exhaust systems help remove oxides and other particulate matter from exhaust gasses. Current research sees ceramic foams often formulated with Bioglass to create tissue sca...
2096. ...o be made from the juice of Fire-Flowers that grew in the mountains of the sun, with a single drop curing almost any illness or injury, bringing people back from the brink of death in some cases. The **use** of the word "cordial" by the author was archaic even at the time. Miruvor (cordial of Imladris) J.R.R. Tolkien, Fellowship of the Ring. Potential determining ion When placed into solution, salts begi...
2097. ...Control Agency (MCA) took over. This agency became the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) on 1 April 2003 following a merger with the Medical Devices Agency (MDA). Since then, **use** of the database has expanded within the UK and overseas. The GPRD was run as a sub-division of the MHRA. Following initiatives by the Director, Dr John Parkinson, the utility of GPRD was dramatically...
2098. ...sciences research." David Willetts, Minister for Universities and Science, said, "The UK is a world leader in life sciences, but both the research base and industry tell us that we could make better **use** of data in order to drive medical breakthroughs. The Clinical Practice Research Datalink will provide researchers with access to safeguarded data that respects patient confidentiality. This will give...
2099. ...eason or by a new route of administration. Examples of how it might appear: The black triangle also highlights the need for surveillance of any Adverse Drug Reactions (ADRs) that might arise from the **use** of a new medication. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) encourage anyone to voluntarily report ADRs (however minor) via the Yellow Card Scheme to gather more information a...
2100. ...formation and gain more understanding of a new medication. After a new medicine (or vaccine) has been brought to the market there is still a lot that can be learned about the drug from its widespread **use**. Similarly, if an existing drug is being used in a situation where it was not used before or if it is being given by a different route of administration much can still be learned about its new or mod...
2101. ...larly, if an existing drug is being used in a situation where it was not used before or if it is being given by a different route of administration much can still be learned about its new or modified **use**.  The black triangle label generally stays with the new drug (or new use of an existing drug) for at least 5 years, when it is reviewed, and after this time the black triangle label may or may not be...
2102. ...used before or if it is being given by a different route of administration much can still be learned about its new or modified use.  The black triangle label generally stays with the new drug (or new **use** of an existing drug) for at least 5 years, when it is reviewed, and after this time the black triangle label may or may not be discontinued. Idiosyncratic drug reaction Idiosyncratic drug reactions,...
2103. ...ssure is used to push the active drug through the laser drilled opening(s) in the tablet and into the gastrointestinal tract. OROS is a trademarked name owned by ALZA Corporation, which pioneered the **use** of osmotic pumps for oral drug delivery. Osmotic release systems have a number of major advantages over other controlled-release mechanisms. They are significantly less affected by factors such as pH...
2104. ...tating drugs from the non-deformable tablet. The Elementary Osmotic Pump (EOP) was developed by ALZA in 1974, and was the first practical example of an osmotic pump based drug release system for oral **use**. It was introduced to the market in the early 1980s in Osmosin (indomethacin) and Acutrim (phenylpropanolamine), but unexpectedly severe issues with GI irritation and cases of GI perforation led to t...
2105. ...stead, the CPOP's semipermeable membrane was designed to form numerous small pores upon contact with water through which the drug would be expelled via osmotic pressure. The pores were formed via the **use** of a pH insensitive leachable or dissolvable additive such as sorbitol. Both the EOP and CPOP were relatively simple designs, and were limited by their inability to deliver poorly soluble drugs. This...
2106. ...as a substantial reduction in out-of-pocket costs and a moderate increase in medication utilization among Medicare beneficiaries, although there was no evidence of improvement in emergency department **use**, hospitalizations, or preference-based health utility for those eligible for Part D. The dollar limits increase yearly. The following table shows the Medicare benefit breakdown (including the doughnu...
2107. ...Cannabis Clinicians The Society of Cannabis Clinicians (SCC) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization registered in the United States, dedicated to educating healthcare professionals about the medical **use** of cannabis. Its mission is to unite into one association members of the various medical specialties and allied professionals with this common purpose. SCC is one of the oldest active organization of...
2108. ...nia law (HSC §11362.5). The California Cannabis Research Medical Group (CCRMG) was established as a 501c3 non-profit by Tod Mikuriya in 1999, to help physicians share and exchange data about cannabis **use** by their patients, essentially in California around the San Francisco area. The CCRMG members published their research findings, such as president Jeffrey Hergenrather's survey of patients with Crohn...
2109. ...e chapters. In 2020, the SCC submitted contributions to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights during the COVID-19 pandemic in relation with access to medical cannabis and the rights of people who **use** drugs. SCC also contributed to the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs in relation with the recommendations of the World Health Organization to withdraw cannabis and cannabis resin from Sched...
2110. ...ttee, known as the GAMP COP (community of practice) of the International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering (ISPE). The goal of the community is to promote the understanding of the regulation and **use** of automated systems within the pharmaceutical industry. The GAMP COP organizes discussion forums for its members. ISPE organises GAMP-related training courses and educational seminars. Several local...
2111. ...uccal area. The first ODTs disintegrated through effervescence rather than dissolution, and were designed to make taking vitamins more pleasant for children. This method was adapted to pharmaceutical **use** with the invention of microparticles containing a drug, which would be released upon effervescence of the tablet and swallowed by the patient. Dissolution became more effective than effervescence thr...
2112. ...challenging. Typically, as in most tablet blends, lubricants such as magnesium stearate are added to the blend to reduce the amount of material that may stick to the die wall. Differences may be the **use** of disintegrating aids, such as crospovidone, and binding agents that aid in mouth feel, such as microcrystalline cellulose. Primarily, ODTs contain some form of sugar such as mannitol, which typical...
2113. ...sugar such as mannitol, which typically serves as the major diluent of the ODTs, and is also the primary contributor to the smooth and creamy mouth feel of most ODTs. Lyophilized ODT formulations may **use** proprietary technologies but can produce a tablet that has a faster disintegration rate, for example the Zydis ODT typically dissolves in the mouth in less than 5 seconds without water and Lyophilize...
2114. ...Freeze drying tablets manufactured by Galien-LPS are delivered in a blister pack. The differences between the two CIMA products are proprietary, however, the primary difference is expected to be the **use** of microcrystalline cellulose (MCC), such as Avicel PH101, in the Durasolv product. MCC serves multiple purposes in an ODT but in the case of CIMA's products, it acts as a binder, increasing the inte...
2115. ...with the solvent water molecules. A convenient quantitation of the effect of a solute additive on the solubility of another solute may be obtained by the Setschetow equation: where Hydrotropes are in **use** industrially and commercially in cleaning and personal care product formulations to allow more concentrated formulations of surfactants. About 29,000 metric tons are produced (i.e., manufactured and...
2116. ...tners. Consequently, addressing this issue is considered a significant public health priority. The practice is commonly referred to as "party 'n' play" (PNP or PnP) by some participants, while others **use** the term "high 'n' horny" (HnH). An academic study has labeled it "sexualized drug use" (SDU). The term PnP is widely used among gay men and other men who have sex with men (MSM) in North America and...
2117. ...iority. The practice is commonly referred to as "party 'n' play" (PNP or PnP) by some participants, while others use the term "high 'n' horny" (HnH). An academic study has labeled it "sexualized drug **use**" (SDU). The term PnP is widely used among gay men and other men who have sex with men (MSM) in North America and Australia. Conversely, the term chemsex is more common in Europe. In certain Southeast...
2118. ...sed recreationally for its effects as a potent aphrodisiac, euphoriant, and stimulant. It has been further described that "an entire subculture known as party and play is based around methamphetamine **use**." Gay men belonging to this subculture will typically meet up through internet dating sites to have sex. On such sites, men often include notations such as "chems" or "PnP". Since stimulant drugs suc...
2119. ...recommended will prolong symptoms of intoxication for up to eight hours. In some cases, these sexual encounters will sometimes occur continuously for several days along with repeated methamphetamine **use**. Methamphetamine is used to create euphoria, "heighten sexual appetite", and increase sexual stamina. The crash following the use of methamphetamine in this manner is very often severe, with marked h...
2120. ...cur continuously for several days along with repeated methamphetamine use. Methamphetamine is used to create euphoria, "heighten sexual appetite", and increase sexual stamina. The crash following the **use** of methamphetamine in this manner is very often severe, with marked hypersomnia. Ketamine is very different from the main chemsex drugs, as it is a dissociative hallucinogen that distorts perception...
2121. ...dentify what drug they are partying with. These drugs tend to inhibit penile erection, a phenomenon known by the slang term "crystal penis" or "tweaker dick". Consequently, many men who engage in PnP **use** erectile dysfunction drugs such as sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil. Imodium is often taken by participants in passive anal sex in order to be clean for longer. For some PnP participants, substa...
2122. ...ctile dysfunction drugs such as sildenafil, vardenafil, and tadalafil. Imodium is often taken by participants in passive anal sex in order to be clean for longer. For some PnP participants, substance **use** may facilitate a process of "cognitive disengagement” or moral disengagement from the fears and stipulations associated with sex in the time of HIV/AIDS. Popular discourses of "disinhibition" provide...
2123. ...stipulations associated with sex in the time of HIV/AIDS. Popular discourses of "disinhibition" provide a commonly accepted alibi for activities engaged in when under the influence of stimulants. The **use** of drugs like mephedrone, GHB/GBL, and crystal meth before or during sex, can have physical effects. These can include dehydration, a higher risk of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STI...
2124. ...njuries can be as minor as cuts and bruises, but they can also be dangerous in severe cases, such as haemorrhages, anal fissures, ripped anuses, anal prolapse, suffocation, and more. Furthermore, the **use** of these drugs can affect erection and ejaculation. Gay/Bisexual men often will use Viagra or other ED drugs to overcome this issue. Unfortunately, this means that their body has to cope with drug in...
2125. ...e cases, such as haemorrhages, anal fissures, ripped anuses, anal prolapse, suffocation, and more. Furthermore, the use of these drugs can affect erection and ejaculation. Gay/Bisexual men often will **use** Viagra or other ED drugs to overcome this issue. Unfortunately, this means that their body has to cope with drug interactions that very often go wrong leading, in many cases, to overdose, seizures, d...
2126. ...consent. The abuse of drugs such as methamphetamine may cause neurological damage. Impaired judgement due to intoxication may lead to bareback sex, which increases the chances of contracting HIV. The **use** of crystal methamphetamine or mephedrone for chemsex is associated with "high-risk sexual behaviour… with little regard to consequences, poor [antiretroviral drug] adherence for HIV, poor use of cond...
2127. ...IV. The use of crystal methamphetamine or mephedrone for chemsex is associated with "high-risk sexual behaviour… with little regard to consequences, poor [antiretroviral drug] adherence for HIV, poor **use** of condoms, extended episodes of (often traumatic) sexual pursuits (e.g. fisting) typically lasting two to three days, [and] multiple sexual partners. Men who have sex with men in the chemsex scene w...
2128. ...isodes of (often traumatic) sexual pursuits (e.g. fisting) typically lasting two to three days, [and] multiple sexual partners. Men who have sex with men in the chemsex scene who inject drugs tend to **use** 'clumsy injecting practices and knowledge', which increases the risks of injection problems. As well, since most chemsex takes place in private home parties, it is hard for public health staff to rea...
2129. ...o British research from 2006. The study also found that up to 20% of gay men from central London gyms had tried methamphetamine, the drug most associated with PNPing. Subcultures of psychoactive drug **use** have long existed within urban gay communities, since the 1970s disco era and before. These substances have been used for dancing, socializing, communal celebration and other purposes. The rise of on...
2130. ...et hardness, and capsule disintegration. It is unlikely that formulation studies will be complete by the time clinical trials commence. This means that simple preparations are developed initially for **use** in phase I clinical trials. These typically consist of hand-filled capsules containing a small amount of the drug and a diluent. Proof of the long-term stability of these formulations is not required...
2131. ...quires a reconstitution and delivery system to ensure that the drug is correctly mixed and administered. Options for topical formulation include: Overmedication Overmedication describes the excessive **use** of over-the-counter or prescription medicines for a person. Overmedication can have harmful effects, such as non-adherence or interactions with multiple prescription drugs.  Over-the-counter (OTC) me...
2132. ...e maximum daily limit. Exceeding the maximum daily limit could involve severe liver toxicity, liver failure, kidney failure, or even death. People who have poor liver function or with chronic alcohol **use** disorder should either limit or not ingest acetaminophen to prevent morbidities. Additionally, acetaminophen is an ingredient in many combination medications, increasing the risk of unintentional ove...
2133. ...osis, respiratory depression, CNS depression, and decreased bowel motility. Despite the risk of death, dependence is another significant issue related to codeine overuse. Tolerance can cause users to **use** more opioid, leading to dependence, especially with chronic daily use of codeine. Additionally, the misuse of codeine-containing cough syrups has become a public health concern, as it can serve as a...
2134. ...lity. Despite the risk of death, dependence is another significant issue related to codeine overuse. Tolerance can cause users to use more opioid, leading to dependence, especially with chronic daily **use** of codeine. Additionally, the misuse of codeine-containing cough syrups has become a public health concern, as it can serve as a gateway to stronger opioids. Education about the risks and signs of op...
2135. ...give its psychoactive effects at high doses. Similarly to codeine, DXM comes primarily in formulations that contain other OTC medications and is not common to find DXM on its own. Moreso, people who **use** DXM tend to use it concomitantly with other substances such as alcohol, hallucinogens, sedative drugs, and opioids. DXM has dose dependent psychoactive effects with lower dose leading to more restles...
2136. ...active effects at high doses. Similarly to codeine, DXM comes primarily in formulations that contain other OTC medications and is not common to find DXM on its own. Moreso, people who use DXM tend to **use** it concomitantly with other substances such as alcohol, hallucinogens, sedative drugs, and opioids. DXM has dose dependent psychoactive effects with lower dose leading to more restlessness and euphor...
2137. ...phenhydramine may lead to tachycardia, dry mouth, blurred vision, mydriasis, depression, and urinary retention. In 2020, purposeful overmedication with Benadryl (diphenhydramine) was a concern due to **use** of social media by teenagers in the United States, with the FDA issuing a public warning about the possibility of seizures, hallucinations, breathing difficulty or loss of consciousness. Pseudoephedr...
2138. ...propanolamine can be overused with the intent for weight loss or improving athletic performance, possibly causing insomnia, diminished sense of fatigue, euphoria, and psychotic behavior. The habitual **use** of the medication has led to dependence, with symptoms of restlessness, dysphoria, and distorted perceptions on withdrawal. Seniors (65 years old and up) are possible users of overmedication. Seniors...
2139. ...ek guidance in their spiritual and social lives. Botánicas provide their patrons with access to power: power from the natural world, the social world, and the world of the spirits. Devotees, in turn, **use** this power to meet the challenges of ordinary life: problems of health, wealth, and love. People come to the botánica with a host of struggles and problems, and the botánica offers hope from these tr...
2140. ...nicas have their roots in the relationship of the Aztecs of Mexico and the Spaniards. The Aztecs showed the Spaniards their methods to healing, such as which plants had curative properties and how to **use** them. Soon after, the Spaniards began to keep records of the names of the plants and their uses. These practices continued and evolved as household remedies during and after the Spanish conquest. Gen...
2141. ...k, and then protection from enemies and seeking justice. The term "botánica" refers to botanicals or herbs. This name acknowledges the fact that many of the goods sold in such stores are intended for **use** in rituals that involve special herbs, which are sometimes used as medicines. Besides being a place to merely obtain goods, botánicas serve as unique sites for the performance of religious culture. A...
2142. ...ent's particular needs. Limpias is the Spanish word for clean, referring to the ritual cleansing aimed at getting rid of negative energy. More complex ones requiring the burning of copal incense, the **use** of perfumed water, oils, candles, and eggs, and extensive prayers. Simple limpias may be offered at no cost but also around 2005 and 2006, the cost for a limpia was around $40 to $50. Botánicas also...
2143. ...pitals being a last resort. That is, researchers have found that Latin American immigrants in the United States often distrust the hospital medical system. Thus, in opposition to it, they continue to **use** their own culturally appropriate healthcare practices. In Curanderismo, Santería, and Espiritismo, the practitioners assess the patient and, depending on diagnosis, prepares a healing remedy or a var...
2144. ...m the addition of excessive and unnecessary amounts of such artificial food additives in their foodstuffs and compels producers to: For example, European Union directive 94/36/EC (which regulates the **use** of food colors) explains in Article 2 (7): ""In the Annexes to this Directive" 'quantum satis' "means that no maximum level is specified. However, coloring matters shall be used according to good man...
2145. ...s, and safety information for the drugs reviewed. These reports and research products are not usage guidelines, nor should they be read as an endorsement of or recommendation for any particular drug, **use** or approach. Rather, DERP reports are used by policy makers to develop criteria for drug coverage, such as prior authorizations, clinical edits, drug utilization management policies, and provider or...
2146. ...products include a comprehensive search of the global evidence, an objective appraisal of the quality of the studies found, and a thorough synthesis of high-quality evidence. Policymakers are able to **use** these reports and research products to make informed policy decisions that improve patient outcomes and contain costs. Combination drug A combination drug or a fixed-dose combination (FDC) is a medic...
2147. ...get multiple diseases/conditions. In cases of FDCs targeting multiple conditions, such conditions might often be related—in order to increase the number of prospective patients who might be likely to **use** a given FDC product. This is because each FDC product is mass-produced, and thus typically requires having a critical mass of potentially applicable patients in order to justify its manufacture, dist...
2148. ...ges were implemented: One of the first challenges is to promote and develop rational prescribing, and a number of international initiatives exist in this area. WHO has actively promoted rational drug **use** as one of the major elements in its Drug Action Programme. In its publication "A Guide to Good Prescribing" the process is outlined as: The emphasis is on developing a logical approach, and it allows...
2149. ...Prescribing" the process is outlined as: The emphasis is on developing a logical approach, and it allows for clinicians to develop personal choices in medicines (a personal formulary) which they may **use** regularly. The program seeks to promote appraisal of evidence in terms of proven efficacy and safety from controlled clinical trial data, and adequate consideration of quality, cost and choice of com...
2150. ...hat has been most thoroughly investigated, has favorable pharmacokinetic properties and is reliably produced locally. The avoidance of combination drugs is also encouraged. The routine and irrational **use** of injections should also be challenged. One study undertaken in Indonesia found that nearly 50% of infants and children and 75% of the patients aged five years or over visiting government health cen...
2151. ...y undertaken in Indonesia found that nearly 50% of infants and children and 75% of the patients aged five years or over visiting government health centers received one or more injections. The highest **use** of injections was for skin disorders, musculoskeletal problems and nutritional deficiencies. Injections, as well as being used inappropriately, are often administered by untrained personnel; these in...
2152. ...ministered by untrained personnel; these include drug sellers who have no understanding of clean or aseptic techniques. Another group active in this area is the International Network for the Rational **Use** of Drugs (INRUD). This organization, established in 1989, exists to promote rational drug use in developing countries. As well as producing training programs and publications, the group is undertakin...
2153. ...an or aseptic techniques. Another group active in this area is the International Network for the Rational Use of Drugs (INRUD). This organization, established in 1989, exists to promote rational drug **use** in developing countries. As well as producing training programs and publications, the group is undertaking research in a number of member countries, focused primarily on changing behavior to improve...
2154. ...eveloping countries. As well as producing training programs and publications, the group is undertaking research in a number of member countries, focused primarily on changing behavior to improve drug **use**. One of the most useful publications from this group is entitled "Managing Drug Supply". It covers most of the drug supply processes and is built up from research and experience in many developing co...
2155. ...rience in many developing countries. There a number of case studies described, many of which have general application for pharmacists working in developing countries. In all the talk of rational drug **use**, the impact of the pharmaceutical industry cannot be ignored, with its many incentive schemes for doctors and pharmacy staff who dispense, advise or encourage use of particular products. These issues...
2156. ...es. In all the talk of rational drug use, the impact of the pharmaceutical industry cannot be ignored, with its many incentive schemes for doctors and pharmacy staff who dispense, advise or encourage **use** of particular products. These issues have been highlighted in a study of pharmaceutical sales representative (medreps) in Mumbai. This was an observational study of medreps' interactions with pharmac...
2157. ...further strengthen the lists. At present, there is an assumption among doctors in some parts of the world that the essential drugs list is really for the poor of society and is somehow inferior. The **use** of NNTs around analgesics in the list goes some way to disprove this and these developments may increase the importance of essential drugs lists. The impact of pharmaceutical representatives and the...
2158. ...etic individuals want to take action to help in a situation in which they would otherwise be helpless, and workers in difficult circumstances, only too aware of waste and excess at home, want to make **use** of otherwise worthless materials. The problem is that these situations do not lend themselves to objectivity. There are numerous accounts of tons of useless drugs being air-freighted into disaster ar...
2159. ...generated guidelines for drug donations from a consensus of major international agencies involved in emergency relief. If these are followed, a significant improvement in terms of patient benefit and **use** of human resources will result. While modern practices, including the development of clinical pharmacy, are important, many basic issues await significant change in developing countries. Evidence is...
2160. ...reating serotonergic crisis such as serotonin syndrome. Dextromethorphan for its part is widely used as a cough medication, but its other actions have led to trials for several conditions such as its **use** as an adjunct to analgesia, and a potential anti-addictive drug, as well as its occasional recreational use as a dissociative. Kanamycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic which induces deafness through...
2161. ...ugh medication, but its other actions have led to trials for several conditions such as its use as an adjunct to analgesia, and a potential anti-addictive drug, as well as its occasional recreational **use** as a dissociative. Kanamycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic which induces deafness through blockage of the outer hair cells of the cochlea; yet it has many other effects, weakening for instance the...
2162. ...importance or the urgency of actions that are necessary to preserve the welfare of client or patient. In the clinical context, establishing priorities aids in the rationale and justification for the **use** of limited resources. Priority setting is influenced by time, money, and expertise. A risk priority number assessment is one way to establish priorities that may be difficult to establish in a health...
2163. ...activity and metabolism) allows for scanning procedures which collect data rapidly but keep total patient radiation exposure low. The same characteristics make the isotope unsuitable for therapeutic **use**. Technetium-99m was discovered as a product of cyclotron bombardment of molybdenum. This procedure produced molybdenum-99, a radionuclide with a longer half-life (2.75 days), which decays to Tc. This...
2164. ...half life, later labelled as technetium-99m. Tc remained a scientific curiosity until the 1950s when Powell Richards realized the potential of technetium-99m as a medical radiotracer and promoted its **use** among the medical community. While Richards was in charge of the radioisotope production at the Hot Lab Division of the Brookhaven National Laboratory, Walter Tucker and Margaret Greene were working...
2165. ...and efficiently concentrated in the liver, becoming an internal generator of Tc. After build-up of Tc, they could visualize the liver using the 140 keV gamma ray emission. The production and medical **use** of Tc rapidly expanded across the world in the 1960s, benefiting from the development and continuous improvements of the gamma cameras. Between 1963 and 1966, numerous scientific studies demonstrated...
2166. ...c rapidly expanded across the world in the 1960s, benefiting from the development and continuous improvements of the gamma cameras. Between 1963 and 1966, numerous scientific studies demonstrated the **use** of Tc as radiotracer or diagnostic tool. As a consequence the demand for Tc grew exponentially and by 1966, Brookhaven National Laboratory was unable to cope with the demand. Production and distribut...
2167. ...y supplied by Amersham, UK, then by the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation (ANSTO) in Lucas Heights, Australia. In May 1963, Scheer and Maier-Borst were the first to introduce the **use** of Tc for medical applications. In 1968, Philips-Duphar (later Mallinckrodt, today Covidien) marketed the first technetium-99m generator produced in Europe and distributed from Petten, the Netherland...
2168. ...ng the specific activity of Tc available. It has been reported that ingrowth of Tc as well as the presence of other Tc isotopes can negatively affect subsequent labelling and/or imaging; however, the **use** of high purity Mo targets, specified proton beam energies, and appropriate time of use have shown to be sufficient for yielding Tc from a cyclotron comparable to that from a commercial generator. Liq...
2169. ...ell as the presence of other Tc isotopes can negatively affect subsequent labelling and/or imaging; however, the use of high purity Mo targets, specified proton beam energies, and appropriate time of **use** have shown to be sufficient for yielding Tc from a cyclotron comparable to that from a commercial generator. Liquid metal molybdenum-containing targets have been proposed that would aid in streamline...
2170. ...hniques have been investigated. The supply disruptions of Mo in the late 2000s and the ageing of the producing nuclear reactors forced the industry to look into alternative methods of production. The **use** of cyclotrons or electron accelerators to produce Mo from Mo via (p,pn) or (γ,n) reactions, respectively, has been further investigated. The (n,2n) reaction on Mo yields a higher reaction cross-secti...
2171. ...uced by the electrons (also known as "Bremsstrahlung"). At the hospital, the Tc that forms through Mo decay is chemically extracted from the technetium-99m generator. Most commercial Mo/Tc generators **use** column chromatography, in which Mo in the form of water-soluble molybdate, MoO is adsorbed onto acid alumina (AlO). When the Mo decays, it forms pertechnetate TcO, which, because of its single charge...
2172. ...l form to be administered to the patient. Technetium-99m is used in 20 million diagnostic nuclear medical procedures every year. Approximately 85% of diagnostic imaging procedures in nuclear medicine **use** this isotope as radioactive tracer. Klaus Schwochau's book "Technetium" lists 31 radiopharmaceuticals based on Tc for imaging and functional studies of the brain, myocardium, thyroid, lungs, liver, g...
2173. ...e short half-life of the isotope allows for scanning procedures that collect data rapidly. The isotope is also of a very low energy level for a gamma emitter. Its ~140 keV of energy make it safer for **use** because of the substantially reduced ionization compared with other gamma emitters. The energy of gammas from Tc is about the same as the radiation from a commercial diagnostic X-ray machine, althoug...
2174. ...e to X-ray studies like computed tomography. Technetium-99m has several features that make it safer than other possible isotopes. Its gamma decay mode can be easily detected by a camera, allowing the **use** of smaller quantities. And because technetium-99m has a short half-life, its quick decay into the far less radioactive technetium-99 results in relatively low total radiation dose to the patient per...
2175. ...dy within a few days. Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) is a nuclear medicine imaging technique using gamma rays. It may be used with any gamma-emitting isotope, including Tc. In the **use** of technetium-99m, the radioisotope is administered to the patient and the escaping gamma rays are incident upon a moving gamma camera which computes and processes the image. To acquire SPECT images,...
2176. ...tion.Tc-labelled filtered sulfur colloid or Technetium (99mTc) tilmanocept are injected intradermally around the intended biopsy site. The general location of the sentinel node is determined with the **use** of a handheld scanner with a gamma-sensor probe that detects the technetium-99m–labeled tracer that was previously injected around the biopsy site. An injection of Methylene blue or isosulfan blue is...
2177. ...to create an image in relief. Besides glass, materials such as porcelain, agate, jade, coral, and lacquer were also used. Another common accessory is the snuff bullet, which is designed to make snuff **use** easier and more discreet in public situations. These are small, bullet shaped devices that you would use to store a small amount of snuff for use throughout the day. The self-applicator pipe is known...
2178. ...were also used. Another common accessory is the snuff bullet, which is designed to make snuff use easier and more discreet in public situations. These are small, bullet shaped devices that you would **use** to store a small amount of snuff for use throughout the day. The self-applicator pipe is known as ‘Kuripe’, and the blow pipe is known as a ‘Tepi’ in the Brazilian tradition. Various national and int...
2179. ...is the snuff bullet, which is designed to make snuff use easier and more discreet in public situations. These are small, bullet shaped devices that you would use to store a small amount of snuff for **use** throughout the day. The self-applicator pipe is known as ‘Kuripe’, and the blow pipe is known as a ‘Tepi’ in the Brazilian tradition. Various national and international health organizations including...
2180. ...S National Cancer Institute, and the UK Royal College of Physicians stated that, even if it is less dangerous than smoking, using snuff is addictive, represents a major health risk, has no safe level **use**, and is not a safe substitute for smoking. Using snuff can cause a number of adverse health effects such as dental disease, oral cancer, oesophagus cancer, pancreatic cancer, cardiovascular disease,...
2181. ...disease, fatal stroke and non-fatal ischaemic heart disease Smokeless tobacco globally contributes to 650 000 deaths each year with a significant proportion of them in Southeast Asia. Quitting snuff **use** is as challenging as smoking cessation. There is no scientific evidence that using snuff can help a person quit smoking. Snuff is a cause of oral cancer, oesophagus cancer, and pancreas cancer. All t...
2182. ...ing substances in snuff products. Using snuff increases the risk of fatal coronary heart disease and stroke. In 2010 more than 200,000 people died from coronary heart disease due to smokeless tobacco **use**. Snuff can cause adverse reproductive effects including stillbirth, premature birth, low birth weight. Nicotine in snuff products that are used during pregnancy can affect how a baby's brain develops...
2183. ...available and is typically found only in specialty tobacco shops or online.  Smokeless tobacco products including snuff are banned from sale in Australia but up to 1.5kg may be imported for personal **use** only. The indigenous populations of Brazil were the first people known to have used ground tobacco as snuff. They would grind their tobacco leaves using a mortar and pestle made of rosewood, where th...
2184. ...of John Rolfe, the husband of Pocahontas, who introduced a sweeter Spanish variety of tobacco to North America. Though most of the colonists in America never fully accepted the English style of snuff **use**, American aristocrats used snuff. Snuff use in England increased in popularity after the Great Plague of London (1665–1666). People believed snuff had valuable medicinal properties, which added a pow...
2185. ...o introduced a sweeter Spanish variety of tobacco to North America. Though most of the colonists in America never fully accepted the English style of snuff use, American aristocrats used snuff. Snuff **use** in England increased in popularity after the Great Plague of London (1665–1666). People believed snuff had valuable medicinal properties, which added a powerful impetus to its consumption. By 1650, s...
2186. ...ngland increased in popularity after the Great Plague of London (1665–1666). People believed snuff had valuable medicinal properties, which added a powerful impetus to its consumption. By 1650, snuff **use** had spread from France to England, Scotland, and Ireland, and throughout Europe, as well as Japan, China, and Africa. By the 17th century some prominent objectors to snuff-taking arose. Pope Urban VI...
2187. ...om France to England, Scotland, and Ireland, and throughout Europe, as well as Japan, China, and Africa. By the 17th century some prominent objectors to snuff-taking arose. Pope Urban VIII banned the **use** of snuff in churches and threatened to excommunicate snuff-takers. In Russia in 1643, Tsar Michael prohibited the sale of tobacco, instituted the punishment of removing the nose of those who used snu...
2188. ...1643, Tsar Michael prohibited the sale of tobacco, instituted the punishment of removing the nose of those who used snuff, and declared that persistent users of tobacco would be killed. Despite this, **use** persisted elsewhere; King Louis XIII of France was a devout snuff-taker, whereas later, Louis XV of France banned the use of snuff from the Royal Court of France during his reign. By the 18th century...
2189. ...and declared that persistent users of tobacco would be killed. Despite this, use persisted elsewhere; King Louis XIII of France was a devout snuff-taker, whereas later, Louis XV of France banned the **use** of snuff from the Royal Court of France during his reign. By the 18th century, snuff had become the tobacco product of choice among the elite. Snuff use reached a peak in England during the reign of...
2190. ..., whereas later, Louis XV of France banned the use of snuff from the Royal Court of France during his reign. By the 18th century, snuff had become the tobacco product of choice among the elite. Snuff **use** reached a peak in England during the reign of Queen Anne (1702–14). It was during this time that England's own production of ready-made snuff blends started; home-made blending was common. Prominent...
2191. ...f society from the common people, who generally smoked their tobacco. It was also during the 18th century that an English author and botanist, John Hill, concluded nasal cancer could develop with the **use** of snuff. Under the guise of a doctor, he reported five cases of "polyps, a swelling in the nostril adherent with the symptoms of open cancer". In Victorian era Britain, a few miracle "snake oil" cla...
2192. ...ake oil" claims on the health or curative benefits of certain snuff types surfaced in publications. For instance, a London weekly journal called "The Gentlewoman" advised readers with ailing sight to **use** the correct type of Portuguese snuff, "whereby many eminent people had cured themselves so that they could read without spectacles after having used them for many years". Snuff's image as an aristocr...
2193. ...acles after having used them for many years". Snuff's image as an aristocratic luxury attracted the first U.S. federal tax on tobacco, created in 1794. Despite two centuries of pipe smoking and snuff **use**, by the mid-1850s, North Americans rejected European practices in general—especially British practices—that entailed snuff boxes and formality. By the late 1700s, taking snuff nasally had fallen out...
2194. ...in general—especially British practices—that entailed snuff boxes and formality. By the late 1700s, taking snuff nasally had fallen out of fashion in the United States. Instead, dry snuff users would **use** a twig as a brush to "dip" the snuff, which then involved placing the snuff inside the cheek. This is seen as a precursor to dipping tobacco (moist snuff) use which is still popular today. In additio...
2195. ...d States. Instead, dry snuff users would use a twig as a brush to "dip" the snuff, which then involved placing the snuff inside the cheek. This is seen as a precursor to dipping tobacco (moist snuff) **use** which is still popular today. In addition, orally chewing tobacco or dipping snuff was more convenient for Americans trekking westward in their wagons. During the 1800s until the mid-1930s, a communa...
2196. .... American snuff is subject to the same warning labels on all smokeless tobacco, indicating a possibility of oral cancer and tooth loss. This reflects the fact that American dry snuff users may still **use** the product orally, unlike the majority of Europe, but nasal use of snuff is also practiced by some users. Dry snuff is typically not readily available outside the South and Appalachia, unlike its su...
2197. ...keless tobacco, indicating a possibility of oral cancer and tooth loss. This reflects the fact that American dry snuff users may still use the product orally, unlike the majority of Europe, but nasal **use** of snuff is also practiced by some users. Dry snuff is typically not readily available outside the South and Appalachia, unlike its successor, dipping tobacco (moist snuff), which is available throug...
2198. ...akers long before they ever encountered the first British missionaries. In some African countries, such as South Africa and Nigeria, snuff is still quite popular with the older generation, though its **use** is slowly declining, with cigarette smoking becoming the dominant form of tobacco use. This includes parts of southern Ethiopia, where powdered tobaccos can be purchased at many larger markets across...
2199. ...n countries, such as South Africa and Nigeria, snuff is still quite popular with the older generation, though its use is slowly declining, with cigarette smoking becoming the dominant form of tobacco **use**. This includes parts of southern Ethiopia, where powdered tobaccos can be purchased at many larger markets across the Oromo region. Around the time of the 2007 smoking ban in England, snuff had regai...
2200. ...nce they are used for pleasure rather than medicinal purposes. All drugs can have potential side effects. Abuse of several psychoactive drugs can cause addiction and/or physical dependence. Excessive **use** of stimulants can promote stimulant psychosis. Many recreational drugs are illicit; international treaties such as the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs exist for the purpose of their prohibition....
2201. ...ed medicine, that is, to develop drugs that are adapted to individual patients. A "medication" or "medicine" is a drug taken to cure or ameliorate any symptoms of an illness or medical condition. The **use** may also be as preventive medicine that has future benefits but does not treat any existing or pre-existing diseases or symptoms. Dispensing of medication is often regulated by governments into three...
2202. ...rmaceutics Classification System. This groups drugs according to their solubility and permeability or absorption properties. Some religions, particularly ethnic religions, are based completely on the **use** of certain drugs, known as entheogens, which are mostly hallucinogens,—psychedelics, dissociatives, or deliriants. Some entheogens include kava which can act as a stimulant, a sedative, a euphoriant...
2203. ...mulant, a sedative, a euphoriant and an anesthetic. The roots of the kava plant are used to produce a drink consumed throughout the cultures of the Pacific Ocean. Some shamans from different cultures **use** entheogens, defined as "generating the divine within," to achieve religious ecstasy. Amazonian shamans use ayahuasca (yagé), a hallucinogenic brew, for this purpose. Mazatec shamans have a long and c...
2204. ...consumed throughout the cultures of the Pacific Ocean. Some shamans from different cultures use entheogens, defined as "generating the divine within," to achieve religious ecstasy. Amazonian shamans **use** ayahuasca (yagé), a hallucinogenic brew, for this purpose. Mazatec shamans have a long and continuous tradition of religious use of "Salvia divinorum", a psychoactive plant. Its use is to facilitate...
2205. ...ng the divine within," to achieve religious ecstasy. Amazonian shamans use ayahuasca (yagé), a hallucinogenic brew, for this purpose. Mazatec shamans have a long and continuous tradition of religious **use** of "Salvia divinorum", a psychoactive plant. Its use is to facilitate visionary states of consciousness during spiritual healing sessions. "Silene undulata" is regarded by the Xhosa people as a sacre...
2206. ...Amazonian shamans use ayahuasca (yagé), a hallucinogenic brew, for this purpose. Mazatec shamans have a long and continuous tradition of religious use of "Salvia divinorum", a psychoactive plant. Its **use** is to facilitate visionary states of consciousness during spiritual healing sessions. "Silene undulata" is regarded by the Xhosa people as a sacred plant and used as an entheogen. Its roots are tradi...
2207. ...Native Americans for at least five thousand years. Most mescaline is now obtained from a few species of columnar cacti in particular from San Pedro and not from the vulnerable peyote. The entheogenic **use** of cannabis has also been widely practised for centuries. Rastafari use marijuana (ganja) as a sacrament in their religious ceremonies. Psychedelic mushrooms (psilocybin mushrooms), commonly called "...
2208. ...obtained from a few species of columnar cacti in particular from San Pedro and not from the vulnerable peyote. The entheogenic use of cannabis has also been widely practised for centuries. Rastafari **use** marijuana (ganja) as a sacrament in their religious ceremonies. Psychedelic mushrooms (psilocybin mushrooms), commonly called "magic mushrooms" or "shrooms" have also long been used as entheogens. No...
2209. ...attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. At high doses methylphenidate can become highly addictive. Serious addiction can lead to psychosis, anxiety and heart problems, and the **use** of this drug is related to a rise in suicides, and overdoses. Evidence for use outside of student settings is limited but suggests that it is commonplace. Intravenous use of methylphenidate can lead...
2210. ...ethylphenidate can become highly addictive. Serious addiction can lead to psychosis, anxiety and heart problems, and the use of this drug is related to a rise in suicides, and overdoses. Evidence for **use** outside of student settings is limited but suggests that it is commonplace. Intravenous use of methylphenidate can lead to emphysematous damage to the lungs, known as "Ritalin lung". Other drugs know...
2211. ...and heart problems, and the use of this drug is related to a rise in suicides, and overdoses. Evidence for use outside of student settings is limited but suggests that it is commonplace. Intravenous **use** of methylphenidate can lead to emphysematous damage to the lungs, known as "Ritalin lung". Other drugs known as designer drugs are produced. An early example of what today would be labelled a 'design...
2212. ...of controlled substances known as a temporary class drug. Synthetic cannabinoids have been produced for a longer period of time and are used in the designer drug synthetic cannabis. Recreational drug **use** is the use of a drug (legal, controlled, or illegal) with the primary intention of altering the state of consciousness through alteration of the central nervous system in order to create positive emo...
2213. ...ed substances known as a temporary class drug. Synthetic cannabinoids have been produced for a longer period of time and are used in the designer drug synthetic cannabis. Recreational drug use is the **use** of a drug (legal, controlled, or illegal) with the primary intention of altering the state of consciousness through alteration of the central nervous system in order to create positive emotions and f...
2214. ...drug. Ketamine is a drug used for anesthesia, and is also used as a recreational drug, both in powder and liquid form, for its hallucinogenic and dissociative effects. Some national laws prohibit the **use** of different recreational drugs; medicinal drugs that have the potential for recreational use are often heavily regulated. However, there are many recreational drugs that are legal in many jurisdicti...
2215. ...powder and liquid form, for its hallucinogenic and dissociative effects. Some national laws prohibit the use of different recreational drugs; medicinal drugs that have the potential for recreational **use** are often heavily regulated. However, there are many recreational drugs that are legal in many jurisdictions and widely culturally accepted. Cannabis is the most commonly consumed controlled recreati...
2216. ...ere are many recreational drugs that are legal in many jurisdictions and widely culturally accepted. Cannabis is the most commonly consumed controlled recreational drug in the world (as of 2012). Its **use** in many countries is illegal but is legally used in several countries usually with the proviso that it can only be used for personal use. It can be used in the "leaf" form of marijuana "(grass)", or...
2217. ...ed controlled recreational drug in the world (as of 2012). Its use in many countries is illegal but is legally used in several countries usually with the proviso that it can only be used for personal **use**. It can be used in the "leaf" form of marijuana "(grass)", or in the resin form of hashish. Marijuana is a more mild form of cannabis than hashish. There may be an age restriction on the consumption...
2218. ...se of legal recreational drugs. Some recreational drugs that are legal and accepted in many places include alcohol, tobacco, betel nut, and caffeine products, and in some areas of the world the legal **use** of drugs such as khat is common. There are a number of legal intoxicants commonly called "legal highs" that are used recreationally. The most widely used of these is alcohol. All drugs have a route o...
2219. ...tration in blood rapdily to an effective level, regardless of the route of administration Numerous governmental offices in many countries deal with the control and supervision of drug manufacture and **use**, and the implementation of various drug laws. The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs is an international treaty brought about in 1961 to prohibit the use of narcotics save for those used in medical...
2220. ...trol and supervision of drug manufacture and use, and the implementation of various drug laws. The Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs is an international treaty brought about in 1961 to prohibit the **use** of narcotics save for those used in medical research and treatment. In 1971, a second treaty the Convention on Psychotropic Substances had to be introduced to deal with newer recreational psychoactiv...
2221. ...the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), an Indian federal law enforcement and intelligence agency under the Ministry of Home Affairs, is tasked with combating drug trafficking and assisting international **use** of illegal substances under the provisions of "Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act". Modified-release dosage Modified-release dosage is a mechanism that (in contrast to immediate-release d...
2222. ...embrane via osmosis, and the resulting osmotic pressure is used to push the active drug through the opening(s) in the tablet. OROS is a trademarked name owned by ALZA Corporation, which pioneered the **use** of osmotic pumps for oral drug delivery. Osmotic release systems have a number of major advantages over other controlled-release mechanisms. They are significantly less affected by factors such as pH...
2223. ...t to the top of the stomach and release at a slower rate without worry of excreting it. This system requires that there are enough gastric fluids present as well as food. Many types of forms of drugs **use** this method such as powders, capsules, and tablets. Bio-adhesive systems generally are meant to stick to mucus and can be favorable for mouth based interactions due to high mucus levels in the genera...
2224. ...elease tablet coatings, while other formulations such as micro-encapsulation still work if the microcapsules inside are swallowed whole. Among the health information technology (HIT) that pharmacists **use** are medication safety tools to help manage this problem. For example, the ISMP "do not crush" list can be entered into the system so that warning stickers can be printed at the point of dispensing, t...
2225. ...of the previous equation after subtracting 1: This equation is linear with respect to formula_7, allowing for easy construction of graphs without computations. This was particular valuable before the **use** of computers in pharmacology became widespread. The y-intercept of the equation represents the negative logarithm of formula_5 and can be used to quantify the strength of the antagonist. These experi...
2226. ...the mechanisms differ over a large scale, such as at high concentration of drug. The fitting of the Schild plot to observed data points can be done with regression analysis. Although most experiments **use** cellular response as a measure of the effect, the effect is, in essence, a result of the binding kinetics; so, in order to illustrate the mechanism, ligand binding is used. A ligand A will bind to a...
2227. ...tical chemistry component of the company allows rapid validation that compounds are the correct material at the desired purity. While controlled storage conditions minimize degradation, customers may **use** this service to validate that the material they sent to outsourcing partner originally was correct and pure. Subsequently the service allows re-evaluation of compounds that may have decomposed during...
2228. ...f statistically dependent parameter estimates. Fieller's theorem can be used to compute confidence intervals of these ratios. Some special cases deserve particular mention because of their widespread **use**: If formula_4 is linear and formula_16 this is known as a slope-ratio model. If formula_4 is linear and formula_19 this is known as a parallel line model. Another commonly applied model is the probit...
2229. ...Society covers the whole spectrum of pharmacology, including laboratory, clinical, and toxicological aspects. Clinical pharmacology is the medical speciality dedicated to promoting safe and effective **use** of medicines for patient benefit. Many clinical pharmacologists work as consultants in the National Health Service and many hold prominent positions in UK universities and in regulatory bodies, such...
2230. ...l list of Fellows is available here. Honorary Fellowships (HonFBPhS) are awarded to member or non-members for distinguished and sustained leadership role in Pharmacology. Fellows and Honorary Fellows **use** the post-nominal FBPhS. Notable current honorary fellows include: Ronald Plasterk Ronald Hans Anton Plasterk (; born 12 April 1957) is a Dutch retired politician of the Labour Party (PvdA). He has a...
2231. ...gical aspect in what is known as "ADME-Tox" or "ADMET". The two phases of metabolism and excretion can be grouped together under the title elimination. The study of these distinct phases involves the **use** and manipulation of basic concepts in order to understand the process dynamics. For this reason, in order to fully comprehend the "kinetics" of a drug it is necessary to have detailed knowledge of a...
2232. ...ing bioequivalence when designing generic drugs) or in the clinical application of pharmacokinetic concepts. Clinical pharmacokinetics provides many performance guidelines for effective and efficient **use** of drugs for human-health professionals and in veterinary medicine. Models generally take the form of mathematical formulas that have a corresponding graphical representation. The use of these models...
2233. ...e and efficient use of drugs for human-health professionals and in veterinary medicine. Models generally take the form of mathematical formulas that have a corresponding graphical representation. The **use** of these models allows an understanding of the characteristics of a molecule, as well as how a particular drug will behave given information regarding some of its basic characteristics such as its ac...
2234. ...g it as a system of differential equations. These models are based on a consideration of an organism as a number of related "compartments". Both single compartment and multi-compartment models are in **use**. PK compartmental models are often similar to kinetic models used in other scientific disciplines such as chemical kinetics and thermodynamics. The advantage of compartmental over noncompartmental an...
2235. ...press complicated equations in order to obtain an overall curve. A number of computer programs have been developed to plot these equations. The most complex PK models (called PBPK models) rely on the **use** of physiological information to ease development and validation. The graph for the non-linear relationship between the various factors is represented by a curve; the relationships between the factors...
2236. ...istration are important in determining background and ensuring data integrity with such complex sample matrices. Much attention is paid to the linearity of the standard curve; however it is common to **use** curve fitting with more complex functions such as quadratics since the response of most mass spectrometers is not linear across large concentration ranges. There is currently considerable interest in...
2237. ...e fitting with more complex functions such as quadratics since the response of most mass spectrometers is not linear across large concentration ranges. There is currently considerable interest in the **use** of very high sensitivity mass spectrometry for microdosing studies, which are seen as a promising alternative to animal experimentation. Recent studies show that Secondary electrospray ionization (SE...
2238. ...tion pharmacokinetic modelling is its ability to analyse sparse data sets (sometimes only one concentration measurement per patient is available). Clinical pharmacokinetics (arising from the clinical **use** of population pharmacokinetics) is the direct application to a therapeutic situation of knowledge regarding a drug's pharmacokinetics and the characteristics of a population that a patient belongs to...
2239. ...o a therapeutic situation of knowledge regarding a drug's pharmacokinetics and the characteristics of a population that a patient belongs to (or can be ascribed to). An example is the relaunch of the **use** of ciclosporin as an immunosuppressor to facilitate organ transplant. The drug's therapeutic properties were initially demonstrated, but it was almost never used after it was found to cause nephrotox...
2240. ...e the product. This ensures that the environment is maintained as contamination-free to safeguard patients who will later be administered the drug. Isolators operate as positive-pressure devices, and **use** full wall separation and substantial overpressure to both physically and aerodynamically separate the interior from the external room environment. The more complete technical definition is as follows...
2241. ...nerable to contamination and can expose the worker to toxicological hazards if not operated properly.  A simpler and more effective option for nearly all toxicological containment applications is the **use** of "closed isolator" design, which is maintained under positive pressure (this is the most appropriate containment option unless a company processes thousands of units per minute).  If a negative iso...
2242. ...n exactly what sense Dr. Beyer has been using the word, though we find it difficult to think of any other legitimate one than that advanced above. We can only hope that he also thinks so and that its **use** in the title of this book may help to give it the wider currency that we believe it to deserve and all the "priority" rights to Dr. Beyer. Pharmacokinetic models are constructs aimed at characterizin...
2243. ...that more scrupulous cleaning actually seemed to "reduce" the effectiveness of the vaccines, and some contaminants actually enhanced the immune response. There are many known adjuvants in widespread **use**, including aluminium salts, oils and virosomes. Adjuvants in immunology are often used to modify or augment the effects of a vaccine by stimulating the immune system to respond to the vaccine more vi...
2244. ...adjuvants and promote stronger adjuvant effects. Freund's complete adjuvant is a solution of inactivated "Mycobacterium tuberculosis" in mineral oil developed in 1930. It is not safe enough for human **use**. A version without the bacteria, that is only oil in water, is known as Freund's incomplete adjuvant. It helps vaccines release antigens for a longer time. Despite the side effects, its potential ben...
2245. ...A-subtype DQB1*602, which has led to the prediction that it is an autoimmune process. After a series of epidemiological investigations, researchers found that the higher incidence correlated with the **use** of AS03-adjuvanted influenza vaccine (Pandemrix). Those vaccinated with Pandemrix have almost a twelve-times higher risk of developing the disease. The adjuvant of the vaccine contained vitamin E tha...
2246. ...may lead to reduced dose delivery and incomplete deaggregation of the powder, leading to unsatisfactory device performance. Thus, most DPIs have a minimum inspiratory effort that is needed for proper **use** and it is for this reason that such DPIs are normally used only in older children and adults. While DPIs are commonly used in the treatment of lung-based disorders, their use requires dexterity to co...
2247. ...hat is needed for proper use and it is for this reason that such DPIs are normally used only in older children and adults. While DPIs are commonly used in the treatment of lung-based disorders, their **use** requires dexterity to complete the required sequential steps to achieve application of these devices. Incorrect completion of one or more steps in the use of a DPI can substantially reduce the delive...
2248. ...the treatment of lung-based disorders, their use requires dexterity to complete the required sequential steps to achieve application of these devices. Incorrect completion of one or more steps in the **use** of a DPI can substantially reduce the delivery of the administrated medication and consequently its effectiveness and safety. Numerous studies have demonstrated that between 50 and 100% of patients d...
2249. ...DPI can substantially reduce the delivery of the administrated medication and consequently its effectiveness and safety. Numerous studies have demonstrated that between 50 and 100% of patients do not **use** their inhaler devices correctly, with patients often unaware that they are using their inhaled medication incorrectly. Incorrect inhaler technique has been associated with poorer outcomes. Some powde...
2250. ...ler devices correctly, with patients often unaware that they are using their inhaled medication incorrectly. Incorrect inhaler technique has been associated with poorer outcomes. Some powder inhalers **use** lactose to: It has been suggested that such lactose may be harmful to lactose intolerant people, and some doctors advise patients not to use lactose containing DPIs to minimize the risk of hypersensi...
2251. ...been associated with poorer outcomes. Some powder inhalers use lactose to: It has been suggested that such lactose may be harmful to lactose intolerant people, and some doctors advise patients not to **use** lactose containing DPIs to minimize the risk of hypersensitivity reactions. DPI medication must be stored in a dry place in a temperature of not more than 25 °C (77 °F) and humidity between 40 and 50...
2252. ...eir activity. Once they are qualified as a "hit" by their repeatability and activity, these particular chemicals are registered and analysed. Chemoproteomics is a field of study that incorporates the **use** of chemical libraries to identify protein targets. Commonalities among the different chemical groups are studied as they are often reflective of a particular chemical subspace. Additional chemistry w...
2253. ...resented chemical space mostly because of storage and cost concerns. Because of the expense and effort involved in chemical synthesis, the chemicals must be correctly stored and banked away for later **use** to prevent early degradation. Each chemical has a particular shelf life and storage requirement and in a good-sized chemical library, there is a timetable by which library chemicals are disposed of a...
2254. ...ies as well as maximizing safety and effectiveness in their management. Combined drug intoxication Accidental (CDI), or multiple drug intake (MDI), is a cause of death by drug overdose from poly drug **use**, often implicated in polysubstance dependence. People who engage in polypharmacy are at an elevated risk of death from CDI. Other dangers of combining drugs such as "brain damage, heart problems, sei...
2255. ..., liver damage/ liver failure, heatstroke, coma, suppressed breathing, and respiratory failure", along with many other complications. Disorders like depression and anxiety can also stem from polydrug **use**. Elderly people are at the highest risk of CDI, because of having many age-related and health problems requiring many medications combined with age-impaired judgment, leading to confusion in taking m...
2256. ...rescribed more than one drug within the same drug class, and doctors may treat the side effects of prescribed drugs with even more drugs, which can overwhelm the patient. In general, the simultaneous **use** of multiple drugs should be carefully monitored by a qualified individual such as board certified and licensed medical doctor, either an MD or DO. Close association between prescribing physicians and...
2257. ...ion that suppress breathing, and the low blood oxygen level causes brain death. Pharmaceutical policy Pharmaceutical policy is a branch of health policy that deals with the development, provision and **use** of medications within a health care system. It embraces drugs (both brand name and generic), biologics (products derived from living sources, as opposed to chemical compositions), vaccines and natura...
2258. ...by national pricing agencies. For example, British Columbia uses a pricing model called reference-based pricing to set the price of drugs in certain classes. Many US pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) **use** strategies like tiered formularies and preferred listings to encourage competition and downward pricing pressure, resulting in lower prices for benefits plans. Competitive procurement of this sort is...
2259. ...nefits plans. Competitive procurement of this sort is common among large purchasers such as the US Veteran's Health Administration. Typically, a manufacturer will provide an estimate of the projected **use** of a drug as well as the expected fiscal impact on a drug plan's budget. If necessary, a drug plan may negotiate a risk-sharing agreement to mitigate the potential for an unexpectedly large budget im...
2260. ...plan will provide and the portion that the patient is expected to pay. Formularies may also segment drugs into categories for which a prior authorization is needed. This is usually done to limit the **use** of a high cost drug or one that has potential for inappropriate use (sometimes called 'off-label' as it involves using a product to treat conditions other than those for which its license was granted...
2261. ...ay. Formularies may also segment drugs into categories for which a prior authorization is needed. This is usually done to limit the use of a high cost drug or one that has potential for inappropriate **use** (sometimes called 'off-label' as it involves using a product to treat conditions other than those for which its license was granted). In this circumstance a health care provider would have to seek pe...
2262. ..., providing independent information, including head-to-head comparisons and cost-effectiveness information to prescribers to influence their choices. Additionally, efforts to promote the 'appropriate **use**' of medications may also involve other providers like pharmacists providing clinical consulting services. In settings such as hospitals and long-term care, pharmacists often collaborate closely with...
2263. ...y may also encompass how drugs are provided to beneficiaries. This includes the mechanics of drug distribution and dispensing as well as the funding of such services. For example, some HMOs in the US **use** a 'central fill' approach where all prescriptions are packaged and shipped from a central location instead of at a community pharmacy. In other jurisdictions, retail pharmacies are compensated for di...
2264. ...ies a monopoly over sales of vaccines during a world crisis. Clinical pharmacy Clinical pharmacy is the branch of pharmacy in which clinical pharmacists provide direct patient care that optimizes the **use** of medication and promotes health, wellness, and disease prevention. Clinical pharmacists care for patients in all health care settings but the clinical pharmacy movement initially began inside hospi...
2265. ...ts in the Veteran Administration are known as Clinical Pharmacy Specialists (CPS). Role in the health care system Within the system of health care, clinical pharmacists are experts in the therapeutic **use** of medications. They routinely provide medication therapy evaluations and recommendations to patients and other health care professionals. Clinical pharmacists are a primary source of scientifically...
2266. ...endations to patients and other health care professionals. Clinical pharmacists are a primary source of scientifically valid information and advice regarding the safe, appropriate, and cost-effective **use** of medications. Clinical pharmacists are also making themselves more readily available to the public. In the past, access to a clinical pharmacist was limited to hospitals, clinics, or educational in...
2267. ...tients within hospitals, and increasingly, in doctors surgeries. They also develop post registration professional education, professional curricula for workforce development, provide expertise on the **use** of medicines to national organizations such as NICE, the Department of Health, and the MHRA, and develop medicines guidelines for use in therapeutic areas. Clinical pharmacists interact directly with...
2268. ...nal curricula for workforce development, provide expertise on the use of medicines to national organizations such as NICE, the Department of Health, and the MHRA, and develop medicines guidelines for **use** in therapeutic areas. Clinical pharmacists interact directly with patients in several different ways. They use their knowledge of medication (including dosage, drug interactions, side effects, expens...
2269. ...ch as NICE, the Department of Health, and the MHRA, and develop medicines guidelines for use in therapeutic areas. Clinical pharmacists interact directly with patients in several different ways. They **use** their knowledge of medication (including dosage, drug interactions, side effects, expense, effectiveness, etc.) to determine if a medication plan is appropriate for their patient. If it is not, the p...
2270. ...inical pharmacists are given independent prescriptive authority. Basic components of clinical pharmacy practice include prescribing drugs, administering drugs, monitoring prescriptions, managing drug **use**, and counselling patients. Dose (biochemistry) A dose is a measured quantity of a medicine, nutrient, or pathogen that is delivered as a unit. The greater the quantity delivered, the larger the dose....
2271. ...on-derived parameters such as AUC (area under the concentration curve) and C (peak level of the concentration curve) of the drug after its administration. This is in contrast to their interchangeable **use** in other fields. A 'dose' of any chemical or biological agent (active ingredient) has several factors which are critical to its effectiveness. The first is concentration, that is, how much of the age...
2272. ...re used to determine a safe one-time dose. If multiple doses of treatment are needed in a day, the physician must take into account information regarding the total amount of the drug which is safe to **use** in one day, and how that should be broken up into intervals for the most effective treatment for the patient. For example, if the desired total daily amount is 600 mg per day, they may decide a dosag...
2273. ...ntitled to collect a substantial application fee from drug manufacturers at the time a New Drug Application (NDA) or Biologics License Application (BLA) was submitted, with those funds designated for **use** only in Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) or Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) drug approval activities. In order to continue collecting such fees, the FDA is required...
2274. ...an average of 32 drugs were approved each year, ranging from 22 in 1994 to 53 in 1996. The average number of new drugs approved by the FDA each year increased by one-third. First drug launches making **use** of new chemical entities in the United States increased from 44 from 1982 through 1992 to 156 in from 1993 through 2003 period. The increase in first drug launches in the United States from 1993 thro...
2275. ....g., Senna and Cinchona. A crude drug is any naturally occurring, unrefined substance derived from organic or inorganic sources such as plant, animal, bacteria, organs or whole organisms intended for **use** in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in humans or other animals. Crude drugs are unrefined natural medications in their raw forms. Prior to the 1950s, every pharmac...
2276. ...actice, the active ingredients and method of action are largely unknown to the practitioner. In recent history, the development of modern chemistry and application of the scientific method shaped the **use** of crude drugs. Eventually, the use of crude drugs reach a zenith in the early 1900s and eventually gave way to the use of purified active ingredients from the natural source. Currently the use and e...
2277. ...ethod of action are largely unknown to the practitioner. In recent history, the development of modern chemistry and application of the scientific method shaped the use of crude drugs. Eventually, the **use** of crude drugs reach a zenith in the early 1900s and eventually gave way to the use of purified active ingredients from the natural source. Currently the use and exploration of crude drugs has again...
2278. ...lopment of modern chemistry and application of the scientific method shaped the use of crude drugs. Eventually, the use of crude drugs reach a zenith in the early 1900s and eventually gave way to the **use** of purified active ingredients from the natural source. Currently the use and exploration of crude drugs has again gained prominence in the medical community. The realization that many completely unk...
2279. ...d the use of crude drugs. Eventually, the use of crude drugs reach a zenith in the early 1900s and eventually gave way to the use of purified active ingredients from the natural source. Currently the **use** and exploration of crude drugs has again gained prominence in the medical community. The realization that many completely unknown substances are yet to be discovered from crude drugs has created a ne...
2280. ...ineralized tabasheer inside produce a rattling sound. These stems are split open to extract the tabasheer. Although a part of the ancient Ayurvedic system of medicine, it has been postulated that the **use** of tabasheer originated in the Adivasi aboriginal tribes of India. Tabasheer was extensively exported from India for thousands of years, including through Arab traders during the medieval period. The...
2281. ...er ink drying times, and may include methyl alcohol and isopropanol in addition to the traditional ingredients titanium dioxide and propylene glycol.  Expanded access Expanded access or compassionate **use** is the use of an unapproved drug or medical device under special forms of investigational new drug applications (IND) or IDE application for devices, outside of a clinical trial, by people with serio...
2282. ...ng times, and may include methyl alcohol and isopropanol in addition to the traditional ingredients titanium dioxide and propylene glycol.  Expanded access Expanded access or compassionate use is the **use** of an unapproved drug or medical device under special forms of investigational new drug applications (IND) or IDE application for devices, outside of a clinical trial, by people with serious or life-...
2283. ...ons who do not meet the enrollment criteria for the clinical trial in progress. These programs go under various names, including early access, special access, or managed access program, compassionate **use**, compassionate access, named-patient access, temporary authorization for use, cohort access, and pre-approval access. In general the person and their doctor must apply for access to the investigation...
2284. ...s. These programs go under various names, including early access, special access, or managed access program, compassionate use, compassionate access, named-patient access, temporary authorization for **use**, cohort access, and pre-approval access. In general the person and their doctor must apply for access to the investigational product, the company has to choose to cooperate, and the medicine's regula...
2285. ...untries the government will pay for the drug or device, but in many countries the person must pay for the drug or device, as well as medical services necessary to receive it. In the US, compassionate **use** started with the provision of investigational medicine to certain patients in the late 1970s, and a formal program was established in 1987 in response to HIV/AIDS patients requesting access to drugs...
2286. ...can only charge direct costs for individual INDs; it can add some but not all indirect costs for small group or larger expanded access programs. To the extent that a doctor or clinic is required for **use** of the drug or device, they too may require payment. In some cases, it may be in the manufacturer's commercial interest to provide access under an EA program; this is a way, for example, for a compan...
2287. ...lso paid for early access to drugs in Austria, Germany, Greece, and Spain. Since 2021, France has a system of early and expanded access separated in two systems: AAC and AAP. Companies sometimes make **use** of expanded programs in Europe even after they receive EMA approval to market a drug, because drugs also must go through regulatory processes in each member state, and in some countries this process...
2288. ...es earlier under these programs. In the Philippines, the usage of unregistered drugs may be allowed through a doctor, a specialist, or health institution or society obtaining a specific compassionate **use** permit (CSP) from the country's Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of their terminally or seriously ill patients. The issuance of CSP is stated under Department of Health Administrative O...
2289. ...unregistered drug the patient, the "licensed drug/device establishment through which the unregistered drug may be procured", and "the names and address of the specialists qualified and authorized to **use** the product." A CSP may also be obtained for processed medical cannabis despite cannabis in general being illegal in the Philippines. In the US, one of the earliest expanded access programs was a com...
2290. ...t." A CSP may also be obtained for processed medical cannabis despite cannabis in general being illegal in the Philippines. In the US, one of the earliest expanded access programs was a compassionate **use** IND that was established in 1978, which allowed a limited number of people to use medical cannabis grown at the University of Mississippi, under the direction of Marijuana Research Project Director D...
2291. ...general being illegal in the Philippines. In the US, one of the earliest expanded access programs was a compassionate use IND that was established in 1978, which allowed a limited number of people to **use** medical cannabis grown at the University of Mississippi, under the direction of Marijuana Research Project Director Dr. Mahmoud ElSohly. It is administered by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. Th...
2292. ...fare. Randall, who had glaucoma, had successfully used the "Common Law doctrine of necessity" to argue against criminal charges of marijuana cultivation that had been brought against him, because his **use** of cannabis was deemed a medical necessity ("U.S. v. Randall"). On November 24, 1976, federal Judge James Washington ruled in his favor. The settlement in "Randall v. U.S." became the legal basis for...
2293. ...n November 24, 1976, federal Judge James Washington ruled in his favor. The settlement in "Randall v. U.S." became the legal basis for the FDA's compassionate IND program. People were only allowed to **use** cannabis under the program who had certain conditions, like glaucoma, known to be alleviated with cannabis. The scope was later expanded to include people with AIDS in the mid-1980s. At its peak, fif...
2294. ...Hardy later passed away in September 2016 due to complications related to his underlying cancer diagnosis. In 2016 Kids v Cancer, a pediatric cancer advocacy organization, launched the Compassionate **Use** Navigator to assist physicians and guide families about the application process. Since then, FDA simplified the application process, but stressed that it cannot require a manufacturer to provide a pr...
2295. ...found that the extract was safe and may be effective for relieving BPH-induced urinary symptoms compared with a placebo. Saw palmetto was used in folk medicine to treat coughs or other disorders. The **use** of saw palmetto extract is not recommended in children under 12 years old because it may affect the metabolism of androgen and estrogen hormones. Saw palmetto extract should not be used during pregna...
2296. ...ation. Recently also enzymatic approaches of PEGylation have been developed, thus further expanding the conjugation tools. PEG-protein conjugates obtained by enzymatic methods are already in clinical **use**, for example: Lipegfilgrastim, Rebinyn, Esperoct. Unpredictability in clearance times for PEGylated compounds may lead to the accumulation of large-molecular-weight compounds in the liver leading to...
2297. ...has by law the same independent competence in all Danish pharmacies as a pharmacist — i.e. for example to dispense and check medical prescriptions, to counsel and advise patients/customers about the **use** of medicine/pharmaceuticals and to dispense, sell and provide information about medical prescriptions and about prescription medicine and over-the-counter medicine (OTC). The pharmaconomist also unde...
2298. ...ic health, forensic medicine, and clinical research. Medical statistics has been a recognized branch of statistics in the United Kingdom for more than 40 years, but the term has not come into general **use** in North America, where the wider term 'biostatistics' is more commonly used. However, "biostatistics" more commonly connotes all applications of statistics to biology. Medical statistics is a subdis...
2299. ...e confidence interval shows the range of values where the expected true estimate would exist within this specific range, if the study was performed many times. Most biomedical research is not able to **use** a total population for a study. Instead, samples of the total population are what are often used for a study. From the sample, inferences can be made of the total population by means of a sample stat...
2300. ...age. This process accelerates if incorrect or inadequate treatments are used, leading to the development and spread of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB). Incorrect or inadequate treatment may be due to **use** of the wrong medications, use of only one medication (standard treatment is at least two drugs), or not taking medication consistently or for the full treatment period (treatment is required for seve...
2301. ...if incorrect or inadequate treatments are used, leading to the development and spread of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB). Incorrect or inadequate treatment may be due to use of the wrong medications, **use** of only one medication (standard treatment is at least two drugs), or not taking medication consistently or for the full treatment period (treatment is required for several months). Treatment of MDR-...
2302. ...nd then spreading towards the West and South America. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis has a variety of causes, but resistance usually due to treatment failure, drug combinations, coinfections, prior **use** of anti-TB medications, inadequate absorption of medication, underlying disease, and noncompliance with anti-TB drugs. The TB bacterium has natural defenses against some drugs, and can acquire drug r...
2303. ...stance is rare (except when patients have a history of being treated with rifampicin alone). If the results of a gene probe ("rpoB") are known to be positive, then it is reasonable to omit RMP and to **use** SHEZ+MXF+cycloserine. The reason for maintaining the patient on INH is that INH is so potent in treating TB that it is foolish to omit it until there is microbiological proof that it is ineffective (...
2304. ...ll drugs within that class, but a notable exception is rifabutin: Rifampicin-resistance does not always mean rifabutin-resistance, and the laboratory should be asked to test for it. It is possible to **use** only one drug within each drug class. If it is difficult finding five drugs to treat then the clinician can request that high-level INH-resistance be looked for. If the strain has only low-level INH-...
2305. ...as part of the regimen. When counting drugs, PZA and interferon count as zero; that is to say, when adding PZA to a four-drug regimen, another drug must be chosen to make five. It is not possible to **use** more than one injectable (STM, capreomycin or amikacin), because the toxic effect of these drugs is additive: If possible, the aminoglycoside should be given daily for a minimum of three months (and...
2306. ...oroquinolones are available. As of 2008, Cochrane reports that trials of other fluoroquinolones are ongoing. While Rifampin is an effective drug, lack of adherence has led to relapse. This is why the **use** of various first-line drugs, along with developing new drugs that are specific towards drug-resistant strains, is essential. There are a number of new anti-TB medications that are currently in the de...
2307. ...m, co-amoxiclav, clofazimine, prochlorperazine, metronidazole have been used in desperation, though it is not certain whether they are effective at all. There is no intermittent regimen validated for **use** in MDR-TB, but clinical experience is that giving injectable drugs for five days a week (because there is no-one available to give the drug at weekends) does not seem to result in inferior results. D...
2308. ...months) on end may be a practical or physical impossibility, and the final decision depends on the clinical judgement of the physician treating that patient. The attending physician should make full **use** of therapeutic drug monitoring (in particular, of the aminoglycosides) both to monitor compliance and to avoid toxic effects. Response to treatment must be obtained by repeated sputum cultures (month...
2309. ...infection portions of the lung is, in general, the final option. Early surgical treatments beginning in the 19th century include inducing lung collapse, as standing tissue heals faster than tissue in **use**, called artificial pneumothorax. Shrinking the lung cavity, thoracoplasty, to fill void space caused by tuberculosis damage was done by either removing ribs, raising the diaphragm, or implanting flui...
2310. ...fected with MDR-TB initially and to experience severe symptoms because of previous exposure to HIV. Shin et al. emphasize another factor in MDR-TB prevalence in Russian prisons: alcohol and substance **use**. Ruddy et al. showed that risk for MDR-TB is three times higher among recreational drug users than non-users. Shin et al.'s study demonstrated that alcohol usage was linked to poorer outcomes in MDR-...
2311. ...he pharmacist designs, conducts, monitors and evaluates the outcomes of organized and structured programs; and 3. population care management in which the pharmacist develops and implements medication-**use** policy. To be considered for PGY1 equivalent experience the individual must have practiced at least THREE years as a PHARMACIST and must be licensed to practice as a pharmacist in the US. The PGY2 co...
2312. ...logy; Community; Critical Care; Drug Information; Emergency Medicine; Geriatrics; Health System Pharmacy Practice Administration; HIV; Infectious Diseases; Internal Medicine; Managed Care; Medication **Use** Safety; Nephrology; Nuclear Pharmacy; Nutrition Support Pharmacy; Oncology; Palliative Care/Pain Management; Pediatrics; Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research; Pharmacogenetics; Pharmacotherapy; Ph...
2313. ...ons in Eastern Canada. All accredited residencies are in collaboration with universities, local health authorities, and the Canadian Society of Hospital Pharmacists. Upon completion, the resident may **use** the title designation of ACPR (Accredited Canadian Pharmacy Resident). Surfactant protein B Surfactant protein B is an essential lipid-associated protein found in pulmonary surfactant. Without it, th...
2314. ...en discovered that lead poisoning caused by ingesting diachylon could cause abortion, or, as they described it, "bring on their period." "Diachylon was readily at hand in every working-class home for **use** on cuts and sores, as a plaster and for drawing milk away after parturition. Now it was put to a new use. In the words of one doctor, 'I have reason to suspect that in this district the practice of t...
2315. ...ed it, "bring on their period." "Diachylon was readily at hand in every working-class home for use on cuts and sores, as a plaster and for drawing milk away after parturition. Now it was put to a new **use**. In the words of one doctor, 'I have reason to suspect that in this district the practice of taking diachylon in the form of pills to bring on miscarriage is far more prevalent among the working-clas...
2316. ...rbal products (a segment of the dietary supplements industry), the general rule is to utilize vegetable glycerin only, while nutraceuticals (another segment of the dietary supplements industry) might **use** a combination of both vegetable and animal source derived glycerin. Alcohol-free (as opposed to alcohol-removed) glycerite products, in which alcohol is never used or added at any time, are preferred...
2317. ...research group of Joseph L. Goldstein and Michael Stuart Brown at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Apoptosis is a form of programmed cell death, which is the mechanisms that cells **use** kill themselves. Brown and Goldstein were at the time studying the transcriptional regulation of the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor in response to cholesterol level. One of the regulatory mec...
2318. ...Fabric filters are one of the most efficient and cost effective types of dust collectors available and can achieve a collection efficiency of more than 99% for very fine particles. Wet scrubbers that **use** liquid are commonly known as wet scrubbers. In these systems, the scrubbing liquid (usually water) comes into contact with a gas stream containing dust particles. The greater the contact of the gas a...
2319. ...ually water) comes into contact with a gas stream containing dust particles. The greater the contact of the gas and liquid streams, the higher the dust removal efficiency. Electrostatic precipitators **use** electrostatic forces to separate dust particles from exhaust gases. They can be very efficient at the collection of very fine particles. Filter Press used for filtering liquids by cake filtration mec...
2320. ...ually determined over a list of size ranges that covers nearly all the sizes present in the sample. Some methods of determination allow much narrower size ranges to be defined than can be obtained by **use** of sieves, and are applicable to particle sizes outside the range available in sieves. However, the idea of the notional "sieve", that "retains" particles above a certain size, and "passes" particles...
2321. ...s – particulate matter is withdrawn isokinetically from a source and segregated by size in a cascade impactor at the sampling point exhaust conditions of temperature, pressure, etc. Cascade impactors **use** the principle of inertial separation to size segregate particle samples from a particle laden gas stream. The mass of each size fraction is determined gravimetrically. The California Air Resources Bo...
2322. ...bitūmen") originally meant "a kind of mineral pitch found in Palestine and Babylon, used as mortar, etc. The same as asphalt, mineral pitch, Jew's pitch, "Bitumen judaicum"", and in modern scientific **use** means "the generic name of certain mineral inflammable substances, native hydrocarbons more or less oxygenated, liquid, semi-solid, and solid, including naphtha, petroleum, asphalt, etc." "Asphalt" (...
2323. ...ry, the Latinate term "asphaltum" was also used. "Pissasphalt" (from Greek "pissasphaltus" "pitch" and "asphalt") names "A semi-liquid variety of bitumen, mentioned by ancient writers". The medicinal **use** of bituminous mummia has a parallel in Ayurveda: "shilajit" or "silajit" (from Sanskrit "shilajatu" "rock-conqueror") or "mumijo" (from Persian "mūmiyā" "wax") is "A name given to various solid or vi...
2324. ...would be central in European medicine and art, as well as Egyptian trade. Bitumen or asphalt had many uses in the ancient world such as glue, mortar, and waterproofing. The ancient Egyptians began to **use** bitumen for embalming mummies during the Twelfth Dynasty (1991–1802 BCE). According to historians of pharmacy, mummia became part of the materia medica of the Arabs, discussed by Muhammad ibn Zakariy...
2325. ...sun before grinding them up. While he considered the available mumia to be a valueless and even dangerous drug, he noted that King Francis I always carried with him a mixture of mumia and rhubarb to **use** as an immediate remedy for any injury. The barber surgeon Ambroise Paré (d. 1590) revealed the manufacture of fake mummia both in France, where apothecaries would steal the bodies of executed crimina...
2326. ...ed to having personally administered mumia a hundred times, but condemned "this wicked kinde of Drugge, doth nothing helpe the diseased," and so he stopped prescribing it and encouraged others not to **use** mumia. The English herbalist John Gerard's 1597 "Herball" described the ancient Egyptians using cedar pitch for embalming, and noted that the preserved bodies that shopkeepers falsely call "mumia" sh...
2327. ...eks called "pissasphalton". Gerard blamed the error on the translator of Serapion who interpreted mumia "according to his own fancie" that it is the exudate from an embalmed human corpse. The medical **use** of Egyptian mumia continued through the 17th century. The physicist Robert Boyle (1627–1691) praised it as "one of the useful medicines commended and given by our physicians for falls and bruises, an...
2328. ...in the writings of Thomas Browne, Francis Bacon, and Robert Boyle. By the 18th century, skepticism about the pharmaceutical value of mumia was increasing, and medical opinion was turning against its **use**. The English medical writer John Quincy wrote in 1718 that although mumia was still listed in medicinal catalogues, "it is quite out of use in Prescription". Mummia was offered for sale medicinally a...
2329. ...was increasing, and medical opinion was turning against its use. The English medical writer John Quincy wrote in 1718 that although mumia was still listed in medicinal catalogues, "it is quite out of **use** in Prescription". Mummia was offered for sale medicinally as late as 1924 in the price list of Merck & Co. Both mummia and asphalt have long been used as pigments. The British chemist and painter Art...
2330. ...ered for sale medicinally as late as 1924 in the price list of Merck & Co. Both mummia and asphalt have long been used as pigments. The British chemist and painter Arthur Herbert Church described the **use** of mummia for making "mummy brown" oil paint: 'Mummy,' as a pigment, is inferior to prepared, but superior to raw, asphalt, inasmuch as it has been submitted to a considerable degree of heat, and has...
2331. ...ding the unpleasant taste of the chemical. It is sometimes called a "snow bomb", especially if using cocaine. This method is used among many pharmaceuticals that are commonly crushed for recreational **use**. The toilet paper method must use single ply toilet paper or one must separate the layers of double ply. Tissues are also a common go to for this method of drug ingestion. Another common paper used i...
2332. ...hemical. It is sometimes called a "snow bomb", especially if using cocaine. This method is used among many pharmaceuticals that are commonly crushed for recreational use. The toilet paper method must **use** single ply toilet paper or one must separate the layers of double ply. Tissues are also a common go to for this method of drug ingestion. Another common paper used is rolling paper for smoking herbal...
2333. ...ult dose of medication calls for 30 mg and the child weighs 30 lb, divide the weight by 150 (30/150) to obtain 1/5 and multiply 1/5 times 30 mg to get 6 mg. Though it is more common for physicians to **use** medications that have suggested manufacturer's doses for children, familiarity of Clark's rule is used as an additional layer of protection against potentially deadly medication errors in clinical pr...
2334. ...of which is such that such drug is not generally recognized, among experts qualified by scientific training and experience to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of drugs, as safe and effective for **use** under the conditions prescribed, recommended, or suggested in the labeling." "Safe and effective" is always conditional on following the directions. For example, aspirin can be lethal when taken in l...
2335. ...eling." "Safe and effective" is always conditional on following the directions. For example, aspirin can be lethal when taken in large amounts but is approved to be GRAS/E by FDA for over-the-counter **use** as directed. FDA has acknowledged the possible existence of drugs that could be considered GRAS/E that they have not found to be GRAS/E yet. As FDA stated in its 2006 Guidance on Marketed Unapproved...
2336. ...e in the blood to an effective level. This is typically done at the beginning of a treatment or after a removal of medicine from blood (e.g. through dialysis). Diabetics and health care professionals **use** bolus to refer to a dosage of fast-acting insulin with a meal (as opposed to basal rate, which is a dose of slow-acting insulin or the continuous pumping of a small quantity of fast-acting insulin to...
2337. ..., the substance used is the dried leaves of the tobacco plant, which have been rolled with a small rectangle of paper into an elongated cylinder called a cigarette. Other forms of smoking include the **use** of a smoking pipe or a bong. Smoking is primarily practised as a route of administration for psychoactive chemicals because the active substances within the burnt dried plant leaves vaporize and can...
2338. ...otable active substances inhaled via smoking include tetrahydrocannabinol (from cannabis), morphine (from opium) and cocaine (from crack). Smoking is one of the most common forms of recreational drug **use**. Tobacco smoking is the most popular form, being practised by over one billion people globally, of whom the majority are in the developing countries. Less common drugs for smoking include cannabis an...
2339. ...globally, of whom the majority are in the developing countries. Less common drugs for smoking include cannabis and opium. Some of the substances are classified as hard narcotics, like heroin, but the **use** of these is very limited as they are usually not commercially available. Cigarettes are primarily industrially manufactured but also can be hand-rolled from loose tobacco and rolling paper. Other smo...
2340. ...ccount for 600,000 deaths globally due to second-hand smoke. The health hazards of smoking have caused many countries to institute high taxes on tobacco products, publish advertisements to discourage **use**, limit advertisements that promote use, and provide help with quitting for those who do smoke. Smoking can be dated to as early as 5000 BCE, and has been recorded in many different cultures across th...
2341. ...to second-hand smoke. The health hazards of smoking have caused many countries to institute high taxes on tobacco products, publish advertisements to discourage use, limit advertisements that promote **use**, and provide help with quitting for those who do smoke. Smoking can be dated to as early as 5000 BCE, and has been recorded in many different cultures across the world. Early smoking evolved in assoc...
2342. ...lecting archery". In Edo period Japan, some of the earliest tobacco plantations were scorned by the "shōgun" as being a threat to the military economy by letting valuable farmland go to waste for the **use** of a recreational drug instead of being used to plant food crops. Religious leaders have often been prominent among those who considered smoking immoral or outright blasphemous. In 1634, the Patriarc...
2343. ...artists largely abated after the outbreak of World War I. The consumption of Opium abated in China during the Cultural Revolution in the 1960s and 1970s. Many people have been critical about tobacco **use** since it gained popularity. In 1798, Dr. Benjamin Rush (early American physician, signer of the Declaration of Independence, Surgeon General under George Washington, and anti-tobacco activist) was "a...
2344. ...ularity. In 1798, Dr. Benjamin Rush (early American physician, signer of the Declaration of Independence, Surgeon General under George Washington, and anti-tobacco activist) was "against the habitual **use** of tobacco" because he believed it (a) "led to a desire for strong drink," (b) "was injurious both to health and morals," (c) "is generally offensive to" nonsmokers, (d) "produces a want of respect f...
2345. ...many different tobacco cultivars which are made into a wide variety of mixtures and brands. Tobacco is often sold flavored, often with various fruit aromas, something which is especially popular for **use** with water pipes, such as hookahs. The second most common substance that is smoked is cannabis, made from the flowers or leaves of "Cannabis sativa" or "Cannabis indica". The substance is considered...
2346. ...and including a filter, or hand-rolled with loose tobacco. Other popular smoking tools are various pipes and cigars. A less common but increasingly popular alternative to smoking is vaporizers, which **use** hot air convection to deliver the substance without combustion, which may reduce health risks. A portable vaporization alternative appeared in 2003 with the introduction of electronic cigarettes, bat...
2347. ...ousness, as well as higher levels of extraversion and neuroticism. Education and counselling by physicians of children and adolescents has been found to be effective in decreasing the risk of tobacco **use**. Systematic reviews show that psychosocial interventions can help women stop smoking in late pregnancy, reducing low birthweight and preterm births. A 2016 Cochrane review showed that the combination...
2348. ...oke form relationships with fellow smokers, in a way that only proliferates the habit, particularly in countries where smoking inside public places has been made illegal. Other than recreational drug **use**, it can be used to construct identity and a development of self-image by associating it with personal experiences connected with smoking. The rise of the modern anti-smoking movement in the late 19th...
2349. ...val rations of many nations and by World War I cigarette manufacturers and governments collaborated in securing tobacco and cigarette allowances to soldiers in the field. It was asserted that regular **use** of tobacco while under duress would not only calm the soldiers but allow them to withstand greater hardship. Until the mid-20th century, the majority of the adult population in many Western nations w...
2350. ...oom and "fin-du-siècle" fatalism. While the symbolism of the cigarette, pipe and cigar respectively were consolidated in the late 19th century, it was not until the 20th century that artists began to **use** it fully; a pipe would stand for thoughtfulness and calm; the cigarette symbolized modernity, strength and youth, but also nervous anxiety; the cigar was a sign of authority, wealth and power. The de...
2351. ...", Larry Adler's "Smoking Reefers", and Don Redman's "Chant of The Weed". The popularity of marijuana among jazz musicians remained high until the 1940s and 50s, when it was partially replaced by the **use** of heroin. Another form of modern popular music that has been closely associated with cannabis smoking is reggae, a style of music that originated in Jamaica in the late 1950s and early 60s. Cannabis...
2352. ...it record, and view FDB updates in comparison with the user's own modifications. Users can load the results of their modifications directly into their medication decision support system for immediate **use** in the workflow. The approach follows the normal update process. The FDB Prizm medical device database provides structured, categorized, and normalized information about medical device products that...
2353. ...variety of sources such as the FDA, medical device manufacturers, and industry data pools. Also, it encompasses additional information from clinical, operational, and financial attributes and codes. **Use** of this database within supply chain and other information systems is designed to help decision makers to build and maintain device libraries, identify and document medical devices in case of recalls...
2354. ...a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) with the National Cancer Institute and has received Fast Track and a Special Protocol Assessment from the Food and Drug Administration for its **use** of melphalan in treating unresectable liver tumors. PHP, also known as the Delcath System, is tested for the treatment of metastatic melanoma in the liver and for primary liver cancer and metastatic...
2355. ...p of high voltages. The streaming current monitor (SCM) is a fundamental tool for monitoring coagulation in wastewater treatment plants. The degree of coagulation of raw water may be monitored by the **use** of an SCM to provide a positive feedback control of coagulant injection. As the streaming current of the wastewater increases, more coagulant agent is injected into the stream. The higher levels of c...
2356. ...ired for life. The iron–sulfur clusters are pervasive and include nitrogenase, the enzymes responsible for biological nitrogen fixation. Iron-containing proteins participate in transport, storage and **use** of oxygen. Iron proteins are involved in electron transfer. The ubiquity of Iron in life has led to the Iron–sulfur world hypothesis that iron was a central component of the environment of early life...
2357. ...he ferredoxins, which have multiple iron atoms. Transferrin does not belong to either of these classes. The ability of sea mussels to maintain their grip on rocks in the ocean is facilitated by their **use** of organometallic iron-based bonds in their protein-rich cuticles. Based on synthetic replicas, the presence of iron in these structures increased elastic modulus 770 times, tensile strength 58 times...
2358. ...iologic source of reserve iron in the body. The reserves of iron in industrialized countries tend to be lower in children and women of child-bearing age than in men and in the elderly. Women who must **use** their stores to compensate for iron lost through menstruation, pregnancy or lactation have lower non-hemoglobin body stores, which may consist of , or even less. Of the body's total iron content, abo...
2359. ...t through menstruation, pregnancy or lactation have lower non-hemoglobin body stores, which may consist of , or even less. Of the body's total iron content, about is devoted to cellular proteins that **use** iron for important cellular processes like storing oxygen (myoglobin) or performing energy-producing redox reactions (cytochromes). A relatively small amount (3–4 mg) circulates through the plasma, b...
2360. ...ption of from 15% to 35% of intake. Heme iron in animals is from blood and heme-containing proteins in meat and mitochondria, whereas in plants, heme iron is present in mitochondria in all cells that **use** oxygen for respiration. Like most mineral nutrients, the majority of the iron absorbed from digested food or supplements is absorbed in the duodenum by enterocytes of the duodenal lining. These cells...
2361. ...cialized proteins known as metallochaperones. Specifically, poly-r(C)-binding proteins PCBP1 and PCBP2 appear to mediate transfer of free iron to ferritin (for storage) and non-heme iron enzymes (for **use** in catalysis). The labile iron pool is potentially toxic due to iron's ability to generate reactive oxygen species. Iron from this pool can be taken up by mitochondria via mitoferrin to synthesize Fe...
2362. ...mula formula_4. Both the Hausner ratio and the Carr index are sometimes criticized, despite their relationships to flowability being established empirically, as not having a strong theoretical basis. **Use** of these measures persists, however, because the equipment required to perform the analysis is relatively cheap and the technique is easy to learn. Carr index The Carr index (Carr's index or Carr's C...
2363. ...d as formula_5. Both the Hausner ratio and the Carr index are sometimes criticized, despite their relationships to flowability being established empirically, as not having a strong theoretical basis. **Use** of these measures persists, however, because the equipment required to perform the analysis is relatively cheap and the technique is easy to learn. Research on Adverse Drug Events and Reports Researc...
2364. ...collected by RADAR ranged from 0 to 96. Twenty-seven sADRs were associated with drugs and four were associated with a device. The success of the RADAR program has previously been largely based on the **use** of diverse data sources to identify, clarify, and verify ADRs. Databases, registries, clinical trials, referral centers, and case reports have all been utilized as sites of detection. In particular,...
2365. ...a sources to identify, clarify, and verify ADRs. Databases, registries, clinical trials, referral centers, and case reports have all been utilized as sites of detection. In particular, RADAR has made **use** of reports submitted to MedWatch as well as more focused databases such as the Medicare-SEER database. Hypothesis-driven active surveillance of a few hundred safety reports serves as the underlying c...
2366. ...ession—of the cutaneous sensory receptors and occurs in structures of the body other than the skin areas to which they are applied as for example, in joints, muscles, tendons and certain viscera. The **use** of these products dates from antiquity." Marine pharmacognosy Marine pharmacognosy is the investigation and identification of medically important plants and animals in the marine environment. It is a...
2367. ...imensional configuration, and is very closely related structurally to the tetracyclic antidepressant (TeCA) maprotiline, differing only in the length of their side chain. Benzoctamine's main clinical **use** is for the treatment of anxiety, and evidence points to it being as effective as other clinical anxiety drugs, in particular diazepam. In the treatment of symptoms of mild anxiety due to psychoneuros...
2368. ...scientists are moving forward with studies that test its sedative effects in patients with respiratory failure. In one study that used benzoctamine in a clinical setting, researchers showed that the **use** of benzoctamine for sedation did not result in changes in forced expiratory volume in one second or carbon dioxide partial pressure ("p"CO). This confirmed previous statements that claimed the drug d...
2369. ...years beyond the original dates set by Florida and California. The definitive requirements will include serialization. Companies that focus purely on achieving compliance will miss the opportunity to **use** regulation as a business driver. The ability to track and serialize unit level saleable packages (e.g. bottle of 25 pills) not just cases or pallets can create business value in knowing exactly where...
2370. ...studies (including the assessment of immunogenicity and pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics). They are sufficient to demonstrate safety, purity, and potency in one or more appropriate conditions of **use** for which the reference product is licensed and is intended to be used and for which licensure is sought for the biological product. The World Health Organization (WHO) published its "Guidelines for...
2371. ...rom quality through to clinical, that show assay sensitivity sufficient to detect any significant difference in dose. However, the safe application of biologics depends on an informed and appropriate **use** by healthcare professionals and patients. Introduction of biosimilars also requires a specifically designed pharmacovigilance plan. It is difficult and costly to recreate biologics because the comple...
2372. ...et. The RMP includes the safety profile of the drug and proposes the prospective pharmacovigilance studies. Several PK studies, such as studies conducted by Committee for Medicinal Products for Human **Use** (CHMP), have been conducted under various ranges of conditions; Antibodies from an originator's product versus antibodies from a biosimilar; combination therapy and monotherapy; various diseases, etc...
2373. ...biosimilars. Japan has similar requirements. The suffix approach has been criticized on the grounds of compromising the INN system and delaying the marketing of biosimilars. Australia decided not to **use** a 4-letter suffix. A version of the four-letter suffix has been proposed to the WHO as the biological qualifier (BQ). It is not part of the international nonproprietary name (INN), but is proposed to...
2374. .... It is not part of the international nonproprietary name (INN), but is proposed to be managed under the same registry. The report 1 of the May 2017 WHO Expert Consultation on Improving Access to and **Use** of Similar Biotherapeutic Products, published in October 2017, revealed on page 4, that following the outcome arising from the meeting: "No consensus was reached on whether WHO should continue with t...
2375. ...ow parents to cite personal, conscientious, philosophical, or other objections. An increasing number of parents are using religious and philosophical exemptions: researchers have cited this increased **use** of exemptions as contributing to loss of herd immunity within these communities, and hence an increasing number of disease outbreaks. The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) advises physicians to re...
2376. ...ing proposals should be appended to the qualification document whether the parts/devices/software are genuine or not. Torres and Hyman have discussed the suitability of non-genuine parts for clinical **use** and provided guidelines for equipment users to select appropriate substitutes which are capable of avoiding adverse effects. In the case when genuine parts/devices/software are demanded by some of re...
2377. ...zed, double-blinded and placebo controlled clinical trials and 20+ published articles There is no evidence that Cold-fx is effective in those infected with the common cold. The effect of preventative **use** is not clear. When used preventively it makes no difference on the rate of infections. It also appears to have no effect on how bad the infections are. There is tentative evidence that it may lessen...
2378. ...ts, showed that the active ingredient in COLD-FX can help reduce and prevent common cold and flu symptoms when taken daily., Individuals requiring anti-coagulant therapy such as warfarin should avoid **use** of American ginseng. Not recommended for individuals with impaired liver or renal function. It is not recommended in those who are pregnant or breastfeeding. Other adverse effects include: headaches,...
2379. ...aining health. "Therapy" and "treatment", in the middle of the semantic field, can connote either the holism of "care" or the discreteness of "intervention", with context conveying the intent in each **use**. Accordingly, they can be used in both noncount and count senses (for example, "therapy for chronic kidney disease can involve several dialysis treatments per week"). The words "aceology" and "" are...
2380. ...l signed into law by President Trump. In regards to the medical cannabis provision, Trump added a signing statement that read: "Division B, section 537 provides that the Department of Justice may not **use** any funds to prevent implementation of medical marijuana laws by various States and territories. I will treat this provision consistently with my constitutional responsibility to take care that the l...
2381. ...re, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Washington, and Wisconsin, to prevent such States from implementing their own State laws that authorize the **use**, distribution, possession, or cultivation of medical marijuana. The Rohrabacher–Farr amendment became law in December 2014, but initially failed to have its intended impact, due to the Justice Depart...
2382. ...efer to insulated intermodal containers or insulated swap bodies. A variety of constructions have been developed. An insulated shipping container might be constructed of: Some are designed for single **use** while others are returnable for reuse. Some insulated containers are decommissioned refrigeration units. Some empty containers are sent to the shipper disassembled or “knocked down”, assembled and us...
2383. ...the shipper disassembled or “knocked down”, assembled and used, then knocked down again for easier return shipment. Shipping containers are available for maintaining cryogenic temperatures, with the **use** of liquid nitrogen. Some carriers have these as a specialized service Insulated shipping containers are part of a comprehensive cold chain which controls and documents the temperature of a product th...
2384. ...nnel throughout the cold chain need to be aware of the special handling and documentation required for some controlled shipments. With some regulated products, complete documentation is required. The **use** of “off the shelf” insulated shipping containers does not necessarily guarantee proper performance. Several factors need to be considered: In specifying an insulated shipping container, the two prima...
2385. ...ties, or reputable vendors. Many laboratories have certifications and accreditations: ISO 9000s, ISO/IEC 17025, etc. Parcel to pallet sized insulated shipping containers have historically been single-**use** products due to the low-cost material composition of EPS and water-based gel packs. The insulation material typically finds its way into landfill streams as it is not readily recyclable in the United...
2386. ...of micelles can be determined by isothermal titration calorimetry when the aggregation number is not too high. Another classical experiment to determine the mean aggregation number would involve the **use** of a luminescent probe, a quencher and a known concentration of surfactant. If the concentration of the quencher is varied, and the CMC of the surfactant known, the mean aggregation number can be cal...
2387. ...he frequency of the excitation, generating an AC displacement current normal to the interface. For practical reasons this is most readily observed at a conducting surface. It is therefore possible to **use** an electrode immersed in a conducting electrolyte as a microphone, or indeed as a loudspeaker when the effect is applied in reverse. Colloid vibration potential measures the AC potential difference g...
2388. ...l form for analysis and reporting purposes. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration and International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human **Use** have provided specific regulations and guidelines surrounding this component of the drug and device development process. The effective, efficient and regulatory-compliant management of clinical trial...
2389. ...rmation and not rely on information disseminated by drug companies; and to avoid conflicts of interest in [their] practice, teaching, and/or research. , the pledge had about 300 signers. Patients can **use** a directory provided by the group to find doctors who have taken the pledge. The group claims that doctors preferentially prescribe drugs that are marketed to them over better or cheaper options beca...
2390. ...directly analyse properties of the multivariate descriptor space of the training compounds or more indirectly via distance (or similarity) metrics. When using distance metrics care should be taken to **use** an orthogonal and significant vector space. This can be achieved by different means of feature selection and successive principal components analysis. Andrew Witty Sir Andrew Philip Witty (born 22 Au...
2391. ...d terazosin (Hytrin), can also cause this phenomenon, though less frequently. The cause is not clear. It occurs more commonly in patients who are salt and fluid volume depleted (as happens due to the **use** of diuretics), or were using beta blockers. Diuretics and beta blockers are frequently used to control hypertension. For this reason, treatment with prazosin (Minipress) should always be initiated wi...
2392. ...ue at which the zeta potential is approximately zero. At a pH near the iso-electric point (± 2 pH units), colloids are usually unstable; the particles tend to coagulate or flocculate. Such titrations **use** acids or bases as titration reagents. Tables of iso-electric points for different materials are available. The attached figure illustrates results of such titrations for concentrated dispersions of a...
2393. ...ns and the selectivity of the immune response. Thinking that selectivity was derived from interaction with the tissues themselves, Ehrlich envisaged molecules extending from cells that the body could **use** to distinguish and mount an immune response to foreign objects. However, it was only after Ahlquist demonstrated the differential effects of adrenaline on two distinct receptor populations, that the...
2394. ...ize). There are several methods for measuring particle size and particle size distribution. Some of them are based on light, other on ultrasound, or electric field, or gravity, or centrifugation. The **use** of sieves is a common measurement technique, however this process can be more susceptible to human error and is time consuming. Technology such as dynamic image analysis (DIA) can make particle size...
2395. ...of results of particle size analysis). This set of various average sizes includes "median size", "geometric mean size", "average size". In the selection of specific small-size particles is common the **use** of ISO 565 and ISO 3310-1 to the choice of mesh size. In materials science and colloidal chemistry, the term colloidal particle refers to a small amount of matter having a size typical for colloids a...
2396. ...fur. It also participates in beta-alanine metabolism and pantothenate and coa biosynthesis. The systematic name of this enzyme class is 5,6-dihydrouracil:NADP+ 5-oxidoreductase. Other names in common **use** include: As of late 2007, 5 structures have been solved for this class of enzymes, with PDB accession codes , , , , and . The protein is a pyrimidine catabolic enzyme and the initial and rate-limitin...
2397. ...ial processes. It is also possible to disperse bacterial slime and increase the efficiency of biocides. Dispersants are used as plasticizers or superplasticizers in concrete formulations to lower the **use** of water while retaining the needed slump (flow) property. A lower water content makes the concrete stronger and more impervious to water penetration. Similarly, dispersants are used as plasticizers...
2398. ...to water penetration. Similarly, dispersants are used as plasticizers in the gypsum slurry during wallboard manufacture, to reduce the amount of water used. The lower water usage allows lower energy **use** to dry the wallboard. Dispersing is the principal goal in the use of detergents, which the liquid bath is water (detergents also are used as emulsifiers in some applications). Laundry detergents enca...
2399. ...zers in the gypsum slurry during wallboard manufacture, to reduce the amount of water used. The lower water usage allows lower energy use to dry the wallboard. Dispersing is the principal goal in the **use** of detergents, which the liquid bath is water (detergents also are used as emulsifiers in some applications). Laundry detergents encase dirt and grime in miscelles, which naturally disperse. Dispersa...
2400. ...se an oil slick in the Gulf of Mexico in 1979 (Ixtoc) over one thousand square miles of sea. The same dispersant was also used in an attempt to clean up the Exxon Valdez oil spill in 1989, though its **use** was discontinued as there was not enough wave action to mix the dispersant with the oil in the water. During the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010, unprecedented amounts of the dispersants Corexit...
2401. ...nd reversibly to the HGMR enzyme. The affinity of statins for HGMR enzyme is in the nanomolar range, while the natural substrate's affinity is in the micromolar range. Studies have shown that statins **use** the conformational flexibility of the HMGR enzyme that causes a shallow hydrophobic groove that the statins exploit and is used to accommodate their hydrophobic moieties. The specificity and the tigh...
2402. ...healthcare-related needs for conditions that do not require an appointment with a medical doctor. This benefits the healthcare system by reducing unnecessary physician visits. The pharmacist can also **use** OTC counseling to ensure the highest likelihood of success for the patient's self-care attempt and minimize the risk of any drug-related problems. Although OTC drugs are generally regarded as safe fo...
2403. ...TC counseling to ensure the highest likelihood of success for the patient's self-care attempt and minimize the risk of any drug-related problems. Although OTC drugs are generally regarded as safe for **use** without a prescription (by definition), medication errors still occur. For example, patients sometimes misuse OTC products by taking larger than recommended doses, in order to bring about symptomatic...
2404. ...by taking larger than recommended doses, in order to bring about symptomatic relief more quickly, or even intentionally abuse them for unlabeled indications. Even when a patient is instructed not to **use** OTC products without speaking with their primary care physician, patients can still fail to identify products as OTC medications worth avoiding. A pharmacist can use both open-ended questions (that s...
2405. ...en a patient is instructed not to use OTC products without speaking with their primary care physician, patients can still fail to identify products as OTC medications worth avoiding. A pharmacist can **use** both open-ended questions (that start with the word "who", "what", "how", "why" or "where") as well as close-ended questions (that start with the word "will", "can", "do" or "did") which are to be us...
2406. ...treatment or potential drug-therapy problems. Pharmacists ask patients about comorbidities to avoid any drug-disease state contraindications. Although OTC counseling does not necessarily involve the **use** of a formal framework, various frameworks have been proposed: The QuEST approach has been described as both "short" and "systematic." It takes the form of the following: As above, with the following...
2407. ...s may reflect a more serious, underlying condition, and patients that present with so-called "alarm symptoms," which require a prompt evaluation by a diagnostician. The available PPIs labeled for OTC **use** varies by country. As of October 2015, in the United States, available OTC proton-pump inhibitors include omeprazole, lansoprazole, and esomeprazole, whereas the UK approves the OTC use of omeprazole...
2408. ...beled for OTC use varies by country. As of October 2015, in the United States, available OTC proton-pump inhibitors include omeprazole, lansoprazole, and esomeprazole, whereas the UK approves the OTC **use** of omeprazole, esomeprazole, pantoprazole, and rabeprazole. Whether or not pharmacists should be involved with selling dietary supplements, which are not approved for the treatment or prevention of a...
2409. ...nd administration of hospital pharmacy including dispensing, handling of medication and hospital pharmaceutical preparations. The committee also promotes the improvement of quality services, rational **use** of drugs, and the implementation of pharmaceutical care. Continuing education programs have been initiated by the CPA especially for young pharmacists. Also, the CPA concentrates on the activities of...
2410. ..., "prednisone" and "prednisolone" should be written "predniSONE" and "predniSOLONE", respectively. The Office of Generic Drugs of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) encourages manufacturers to **use** tall man lettering labels to visually differentiate their drugs' names, and a number of hospitals, clinics, and health care systems use tall man lettering in their computerized order entry, automated...
2411. ...Food and Drug Administration (FDA) encourages manufacturers to use tall man lettering labels to visually differentiate their drugs' names, and a number of hospitals, clinics, and health care systems **use** tall man lettering in their computerized order entry, automated dispensing machines, medication admission records, prescription labels, and drug product labels. Wrong-drug errors have been found to o...
2412. ...has been shown to produce antibiotic concentrations 25-50 times the minimum inhibitory concentration in septic joints. Antibiotic selection is important. Antibiotics must be approved for intravenous **use**, and are ideally chosen based on culture and susceptibility results. Concentration-dependent antibiotics, such as gentamicin and amikacin, are best suited for RLP because they have higher efficacy at...
2413. ...ilize less critically important antimicrobials for initial RLP treatment such a gentamicin, instead of critically important antimicrobials, such as meropenem. In the case of lameness in horses, local **use** of regenerative therapies, such as stem cells, or bisphosphonates such as tiludronic acid are also given by RLP. In dogs, RLP is also used to deliver chemotherapeutic agents. Side effects of RLP are...
2414. ...y RLP. In dogs, RLP is also used to deliver chemotherapeutic agents. Side effects of RLP are relatively rare when performed correctly. Partial thrombosis of a vein can occur, especially with repeated **use** of a vein, but complete thrombosis is rare. There may also be localized tissue irritation. Topical application of an anti-inflammatory, such as DMSO or Diclofenac sodium may be used. Magnetic-targete...
2415. ...n direct the drug to the tumor site. This can keep a larger dose of the drug at the tumor site for a longer period of time, and help protect healthy tissue from the side effects of chemotherapy.  The **use** of MTCs as therapeutic agents for oncology treatment has been increasing exponentially over the past decade. Currently the magnetic vehicle composition relies on the properties of the magnetic compon...
2416. ...eased for resorption within milliseconds. The method is used during development or optimization of drug products and contributes significantly to the reduction in development time and costs. Areas of **use** include the determination of resorption windows, early proof of concept studies, interaction studies, and optimization of pharmaceutical formulations. Tripotassium phosphate Tripotassium phosphate, a...
2417. ...nd other matters, all specified in legislation. It was once the case that pharmacists stayed within the premises compounding/dispensing medications, but there has been an increasing trend towards the **use** of trained pharmacy technicians, with the pharmacist spending more time communicating with patients. Pharmacy technicians are now more dependent upon automation to assist them in their new role deali...
2418. ...dispensing of prescription drugs, providing advice on drug selection and usage to doctors and other health professionals and counseling patients in health promotion, disease prevention and the proper **use** of medicines. In most countries regulations govern how dispensaries may operate, with specific requirements for storage conditions, equipment and record keeping. It is becoming more common for pharma...
2419. ...ce has been criticized as potentially dangerous, especially by those who feel that only doctors can reliably assess contraindications, risk/benefit ratios, and an individual's overall suitability for **use** of medication. There also have been reports of such pharmacies dispensing substandard products. Of particular concern with Internet pharmacies is the ease with which people, youth in particular, can...
2420. ...regulations and federal laws, enforcement is generally targeted at international drug suppliers, rather than consumers. There is no known case of any U.S. citizens buying Canadian drugs for personal **use** with a prescription, who has ever been charged by authorities. According to IQVIA, Vietnam had 55,300 drugstores in 2016, of which 185 belonged to modern drugstore chains. In 2021, the total number o...
2421. ...more often applied to non-human animals than to humans. In general, it is preferred when large amounts of blood replacement fluids are needed or when low blood pressure or other problems prevent the **use** of a suitable blood vessel for intravenous injection. In humans, the method is widely used to administer chemotherapy drugs to treat some cancers, particularly ovarian cancer. Although controversial,...
2422. ...ood vessel for intravenous injection. In humans, the method is widely used to administer chemotherapy drugs to treat some cancers, particularly ovarian cancer. Although controversial, intraperitoneal **use** in ovarian cancer has been recommended as a standard of care. Fluids are injected intraperitoneally in infants, also used for peritoneal dialysis. Intraperitoneal injections are a way to administer t...
2423. ...e a large variability in effectiveness and misinjection. Intraperitoneal injections can be similar to oral administration in that hepatic metabolism could occur in both. There are few accounts of the **use** of intraperitoneal injections prior to 1970. One of the earliest recorded uses of IP injections involved the insemination of a guinea-pig in 1957. The study however did not find an increase in concep...
2424. ...remetrexed, and melphalan. There needs to be more research done to determine appropriate dosing and combinations of these drugs to advance intraperitoneal drug delivery. There are few examples of the **use** of intraperitoneal injections in humans cited in literature because it is mainly used to study the effects of drugs in mice. The few examples that do exist pertain to the treatment of pancreatic/ovar...
2425. ...ms, emesis, and abdominal pain. The study overall defines appropriate doses and toxicity levels of dl1520 when injected intraperitoneally. One study attempted to diagnose hepatic hydrothorax with the **use** of injecting Sonazoid intraperitoneally. Sonazoid was utilized to aid with contrast-enhanced ultrasonography by enhancing the peritoneal and pleural cavities. This study demonstrates how intraperiton...
2426. ...direct access to the peritoneal cavity and affecting the organs in the cavity. In a case of a ruptured hepatocellular carcinoma, it was reported that the patient was treated successfully through the **use** of an intraperitoneal injection of OK-432, which is an immunomodulatory agent. The patient was a 51-year-old male who was hospitalized. The delivery of OK-432 occurred a total of four times in a span...
2427. ...he disappearance of the ascites associated with the rupture. This case is a good example of how IP injections can be used to deliver a drug that can help to treat or cure a medical diagnosis over the **use** of other routes of delivery. The results set a precedent of how other drugs may be delivered in this way to treat other similar medical issues after further research. In 2018, a patient with stage IV...
2428. ...here is evidence that IP may not be the best method of euthenasia due to possibilities of missinjection. Another example of how intraperitoneal injections are used in studies involving rodents is the **use** of IP for micro-CT contrast enhanced detection of liver tumors. Contrast agents were administered intraperitoneally instead of intravenously to avoid errors and challenges. It was determined that IP...
2429. ...or cancer biotherapy. It was concluded that IP administration should not be used over intravenous therapy due to high radiation absorption in the intestines. This shows an important limitation to the **use** of IP therapy. The provided examples show a variety of uses for intraperitoneal injections in animals for in vitro studies. Some of the examples depict situations where IP injections are not ideal, w...
2430. ...ption of a Murphy drip set-up is contained in the 1932 Kansas Supreme Court legal case "Ratliffe v. Wesley Hospital and Nurses' Training School:" On February 14, 1929, "Dr. Horn directed the nurse to **use** the proctoclysis, known as the “Murphy drip.” While the operation was in progress a student nurse in the employ of the hospital prepared the room for the return of the appellant. The proctoclysis set...
2431. ...ticipants and in a one-day meeting consensus on a definition was reached: Pharmaceutical Care is the pharmacologist/pharmacist's contribution to the care of individuals in order to optimize medicines **use** and improve health outcomes. "The philosophy of pharmaceutical care practice consists of: A philosophy of practice is expected when working with medicine and nursing and is practiced by all health ca...
2432. ...intment system, documentation, reporting, evaluation, payment for the service, and much more are included in the management of a service." The ultimate goal of pharmaceutical care (optimize medicines **use** and improving health outcomes) exists in all practice settings and in all cultures where medicines are used. It involves two major functions: identifying potential and manifest problems in the pharma...
2433. ...bilizing species are for example detergents, low-fat chocolates, mayonnaises and margarines.  Ramsden emulsions have gained increased attention and research interest during the last 20 years when the **use** of traditional surfactants was questioned due to environmental, health and cost issues. Synthetic nanoparticles as Ramsden emulsion stabilizers with well-defined sizes and compositions have been the...
2434. ...enhanced oil recovery or water remediation. Certain Pickering emulsions remain stable even under gastric conditions and show an extraordinary resistance against gastric lipolysis, facilitating their **use** for controlled lipid digestion and satiation or oral delivery systems. Additionally, it has been demonstrated that the stability of the Ramsden emulsions can be improved by the use of amphiphilic "Ja...
2435. ...facilitating their use for controlled lipid digestion and satiation or oral delivery systems. Additionally, it has been demonstrated that the stability of the Ramsden emulsions can be improved by the **use** of amphiphilic "Janus particles", namely particles that have one hydrophobic and one hydrophilic side, due to the higher adsorption energy of the particles at the liquid-liquid interface. This is evi...
2436. ...ophilic side, due to the higher adsorption energy of the particles at the liquid-liquid interface. This is evident when observing emulsion stabilization using polyelectrolytes. It is also possible to **use** latex particles for Ramsden stabilization and then fuse these particles to form a permeable shell or capsule, called a colloidosome. Moreover, Ramsden emulsion droplets are also suitable templates fo...
2437. ...anti-clotting agent that reduces the risk of clotting diseases. Aspirin sales revived considerably in the last decades of the twentieth century, and remain strong in the twenty-first with widespread **use** as a preventive treatment for heart attacks and strokes. Numerous authors have claimed that willow was used by the ancients as a painkiller, but there is no evidence that this is true. All such accou...
2438. ...ed that "Eu"- (meaning "good") was inappropriate because it usually indicated an improvement over an earlier version of a similar drug. Since the substance itself was already known, Bayer intended to **use** the new name to establish their drug as something new; in January 1899 they settled on "Aspirin". Under Carl Duisberg's leadership, Bayer was firmly committed to the standards of ethical drugs, as op...
2439. ...he demand—especially with phenol supplies, necessary for ASA synthesis, largely being used for explosives manufacture. On 5 February 1915, Bayer's UK trademarks were voided, so that any company could **use** the term "aspirin". The Australian market was taken over by "Aspro", after the makers of Nicholas-Aspirin lost a short-lived exclusive right to the "aspirin" name there. In the United States, Bayer w...
2440. ...as the top-selling analgesic in the U.S. In 2018, three major clinical trials cast doubt on that conventional wisdom, finding few benefits and consistent bleeding risks associated with daily aspirin **use**. Taken together, the findings led the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology to change clinical practice guidelines in early 2019, recommending against the routine use of aspir...
2441. ...aspirin use. Taken together, the findings led the American Heart Association and American College of Cardiology to change clinical practice guidelines in early 2019, recommending against the routine **use** of aspirin in people older than 70 years or people with increased bleeding risk who do not have existing cardiovascular disease. Drug detoxification Drug detoxification (informally, detox) is various...
2442. ...essation itself and the drug being absent from the body; especially the blood plasma, not from ‘leftover toxins’ or traces of the drug still being in the system. Some addiction medicine practitioners **use** the term withdrawal management instead of detoxification. A detoxification program for physical dependence does not necessarily address the precedents of addiction, social factors, psychological addi...
2443. ...l forms of detoxification under sedation procedures used today. While physicians' protocols significantly differ, they still adhere to the principles described in the early publications. The combined **use** of clonidine and naltrexone was found to be a rapid, safe, and effective treatment for abrupt withdrawal from methadone, as detailed in a paper published in The American Journal of Psychiatry in 1986...
2444. ...ublished in The American Journal of Psychiatry in 1986. Since then, numerous clinics around the world have implemented detoxification under sedation procedures to assist patients in overcoming opioid **use** disorder. These procedures involve the administration of anesthesia and other medications to facilitate rapid detoxification of the body, effectively reducing the painful and uncomfortable symptoms o...
2445. ...lly, there have been many questions raised about the ethics as well as safety of rapid detox following a number of deaths resulting from the procedure. Some researchers say that relapses to injection **use** of illicit opioids during or following repeated detoxification episodes carry the substantial potential for injury associated with uncontrolled drug use and include drug overdose, infections, and dea...
2446. ...ome researchers say that relapses to injection use of illicit opioids during or following repeated detoxification episodes carry the substantial potential for injury associated with uncontrolled drug **use** and include drug overdose, infections, and death. Ultrafine particle Ultrafine particles (UFPs) are particulate matter of nanoscale size (less than 0.1 μm or 100 nm in diameter). Regulations do not e...
2447. ...aling and internal instrumental coatings among other uses, in order to prevent infections. In the area of technology, carbon based UFPs have a plethora of applications in computers. This includes the **use** of graphene and carbon nanotubes in electronic as well as other computer and circuitry components. Some UFPs have characteristics similar to gas or liquid and are useful in powders or lubricants. The...
2448. ...ountries. People who were illiterate needed such symbols to locate these medical practitioners. Show globes were displayed almost exclusively in English-speaking countries, contrasting with the wider **use** of the mortar and pestle as a pharmaceutical symbol. The most dramatic story of their origin goes back to the time of Julius Caesar 100–44 BC. When the Romans invaded England, according to this repor...
2449. ...d themselves to non-chemical drugs using material of largely botanical origins. Most historians today feel the show globe began as a symbol of the chemist's shop. Eventually the apothecaries began to **use** chemical remedies, and also adopted the globe as their symbol. For a largely illiterate public the show globe was a welcoming symbol. Charles Dickens once declared they were the only "bright and chee...
2450. ...9 to Henry Whitney of Cambridge, Massachusetts, for a show globe with a colored glass body with a neck and base of transparent uncolored glass. The purpose of this design was to eliminate the need to **use** colored liquids, which could leave a residue inside the bottle. Though oil could be used to illuminate the colored glass panes in windows, gas lighting in the early 19th century led to the general us...
2451. ...se colored liquids, which could leave a residue inside the bottle. Though oil could be used to illuminate the colored glass panes in windows, gas lighting in the early 19th century led to the general **use** of show globes. They could be lit from the interior or placed in front of a gas jet. In the United States, globes were usually illuminated by a light placed behind them. Despite many attempts to revi...
2452. ...s while the artery heals which reduces the chance of re-blockage in the treated area known as restenosis, and reduces the chances that another procedure is required. The Cypher stent was approved for **use** by the FDA in 2003. Following claims of inconsistent manufacturing processes and poor sales, Johnson & Johnson have announced that it will stop selling Cypher stents by the end of 2011. Swissmedic Th...
2453. ...y to wait before declaring an asymptomatic individual to be cured. Several cure rate models exist, such as the expectation-maximization algorithm and Markov chain Monte Carlo model. It is possible to **use** cure rate models to compare the efficacy of different treatments. Generally, the survival curves are adjusted for the effects of normal aging on mortality, especially when diseases of older people ar...
2454. ...e, in limes) when James Lind published "A Treatise on the Scurvy" (1753). Antitoxins to diphtheria and tetanus toxins were produced by Emil Adolf von Behring and his colleagues from 1890 onwards. The **use** of diphtheria antitoxin for the treatment of diphtheria was regarded by "The Lancet" as the "most important advance of the [19th] Century in the medical treatment of acute infectious disease". Sulpho...
2455. ...ermanic paganism and later Germanic folklore, are mentioned frequently throughout the charm. Scholars have proposed that this passage describes Woden coming to the assistance of the herbs through his **use** of nine twigs, each twig inscribed with the runic first-letter initial of a plant. According to Gordon, the poem is "clearly an old heathen thing which has been subjected to Christian censorship." Ma...
2456. ...ents for rare, devastating genetic disorders. The company has a Pompe treatment in development, as well as Galafold (migalastat), which is for Fabry disease. The company's Fabry drug was approved for **use** in Europe in 2016. The company also has a drug in late stage clinical development for epidermolysis bullosa (EB). Crowley also served in the United States Navy Reserve as an intelligence officer. He...
2457. ...s Drug discovery and development requires the integration of multiple scientific and technological disciplines. These include chemistry, biology, pharmacology, pharmaceutical technology and extensive **use** of information technology. The latter is increasingly recognised as Pharmacoinformatics. Pharmacoinformatics relates to the broader field of bioinformatics. The main idea behind the field is to integ...
2458. ...defines pharmacy informatics as, "the scientific field that focuses on medication-related data and knowledge within the continuum of healthcare systems - including its acquisition, storage, analysis, **use** and dissemination - in the delivery of optimal medication-related patient care and health outcomes" Creaming (chemistry) Creaming, in the laboratory sense, is the migration of the dispersed phase of...
2459. ...the basis of moral or political evaluations." In his philosophical-linguistic analysis, Derrida unmasks the socio-cultural mystifications made on the discourses on drugs. Derrida also discusses drugs **use** by athletes. Exploring its confines, he says: "and what about women athletes who get pregnant for the stimulating, hormonal effects and then have an abortion after their event?" Derrida discusses how...
2460. ...minance of a person's right or left hand in everyday activities, sometimes referred to as laterality. The inventory can be used by an observer assessing the person, or by a person self-reporting hand **use**. The latter method tends to be less reliable due to a person over-attributing tasks to the dominant hand. The Edinburgh Handedness Inventory was published in 1971 by Richard Carolus Oldfield and has...
2461. ...of its grants were awarded to organizations that did business with Soon-Shiong's companies. The Foundation also paid some employees from Soon-Shiong's companies, which is a potentially inappropriate **use** of charitable funds to cover unrelated business overhead. The foundation contributed a quarter of a $12 million donation by Soon-Shiong-controlled organizations to the University of Utah to set up a...
2462. ...Timothy Garon Timothy Dean Garon (September 13, 1951 – May 1, 2008) was an American singer/songwriter who was denied a liver transplant by the University of Washington Medical Center due to his legal **use** of cannabis. Garon contracted the hepatitis C virus (HCV) and received medical cannabis under the supervision of a physician in compliance with Initiative 692 of the State of Washington's Medical Use...
2463. ...use of cannabis. Garon contracted the hepatitis C virus (HCV) and received medical cannabis under the supervision of a physician in compliance with Initiative 692 of the State of Washington's Medical **Use** of Marijuana Act of 1998. The law makes it legal for patients to use, possess and cultivate cannabis with a medical certificate according to state law, but not according to U.S. federal law. Garon's...
2464. ...eived medical cannabis under the supervision of a physician in compliance with Initiative 692 of the State of Washington's Medical Use of Marijuana Act of 1998. The law makes it legal for patients to **use**, possess and cultivate cannabis with a medical certificate according to state law, but not according to U.S. federal law. Garon's physician "authorized Garon to smoke pot to alleviate nausea and abdo...
2465. ...ptor-, enzyme-, transporter-, and ion channel-related liabilities of NCEs (e.g., inhibition of the human ether-a-go-go related gene protein (hERG)). Classically, "in vivo" investigations comprise the **use** of young adult conscious animals. Safety pharmacology studies have to be designed for defining the dose-response relationship of the adverse effect observed. Justification should be provided for the...
2466. ...cleavable detergent is inherently compatible with MALDI and does not have to be removed prior to analysis. UV light- or fluoride-cleavable surfactants have also been developed but are not in current **use**. Nanocell A nanocell is a drug delivery platform consisting of a polymer-bound chemotherapeutic drug combined with a lipid-bound anti-angiogenesis drug. Nanocells are currently being developed in the...
2467. ...hin a balloon.” Inside each nanocell is a chemotherapeutic drug covalently bound to a polymer, and on the surface of each cell is a lipid coat containing an anti-angiogenic drug. The technology makes **use** of the fact that a tumor's blood vessels have pores 600 _m in diameter and are much leakier than normal blood vessels, which have pores only around 50 _m in diameter. The nanocells circulate in the b...
2468. ...s the study of effect of drugs on clinical humans. Part of the task of clinical pharmacology is to provide a risk benefit assessment by effects of drugs in patients: Other parameters relating to drug **use** may benefit epidemiological methodology. Pharmacoepidemiology then can also be defined as the transparent application of epidemiological methods through pharmacological treatment of conditions to bet...
2469. ...between Services Australia, who hold the data for the PBS, and academics at Monash University, University of New South Wales, University of South Australia and the University of Western Australia to **use** the 10% sample for research purposes. Research outputs from these data have to be approved by Services Australia prior to publication. These data create a useful picture of all dispensed medicines in...
2470. ...se particular botanical remedies involve extracting the essential parts out of the plant material, and can be transformed into oil, ointment, and other forms of medicine. The "Rubbing of Lana" is the **use** of botanic oil from coconut and rubbing it onto affected areas. Plant materials consist of leaves, tree bark, and roots. Herbal extracts can either be consumed or applied to affected area(s). Plants...
2471. ...ss, fatigue, psychiatric depression, and dry mouth. Priapism, an unwanted, painful long term erection not brought on by sexual arousal and lasting several hours has been associated with alpha blocker **use**. While this is extremely rare, particularly with tamsulosin, it can cause permanent impotence if not treated in a hospital setting. Male patients should be made aware of this as it can result from a...
2472. ...one compelling indication for alpha blockers, which is for benign prostatic hyperplasia. Patients who need alpha blockers for BPH, but have a history of hypotension or postural heart failure, should **use** these drugs with caution, as it may result in an even greater decrease in blood pressure or make heart failure even worse. The most compelling contraindication is urinary incontinence and overall flu...
2473. ...in combination with the alpha-blocker. In the absence of compelling indications or contraindications, patients should take alpha blockers as a step 4 therapy to reduce blood pressure, but only if the **use** of ACE inhibitors, angiotensin-II receptor blockers, calcium channel blockers, or thazide diuretics (in full dose or in combinations) have not been efficacious. As with any drug, there are drug inter...
2474. ...hrotron beamlines, several hundred data sets of protein-ligand complex crystal structures can be obtained within 24 hours. This technology makes crystallographic fragment screening possible, i.e. the **use** of X-ray crystallography directly for the fragment screening step. Once a fragment (or a combination of fragments) have been identified, protein X-ray crystallography is used to obtain structural mod...
2475. ...reating dreadful diseases such as cancer and is applied as a means of solution-finding to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Computational drug repurposing is the in silico screening of approved drugs for **use** against new indications. It can use molecular, clinical or biophysical data. Electronic health records and real-world evidence gained popularity in drug repurposing, for instance for COVID 19. Comput...
2476. ...ncer and is applied as a means of solution-finding to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Computational drug repurposing is the in silico screening of approved drugs for use against new indications. It can **use** molecular, clinical or biophysical data. Electronic health records and real-world evidence gained popularity in drug repurposing, for instance for COVID 19. Computational drug repurposing is expected...
2477. ...lic acid, pioglitazone, memantine, and inositol in bipolar depression, but findings were not significant.  The generally low quality of evidence does not allow making reliable recommendations for the **use** of repurposed drugs in clinical practice, but some of these drugs have shown promising results and deserve further attention in research. Medication costs Medication costs, also known as drug costs a...
2478. ...e end consumer. Medication costs are influenced by multiple factors such as patents, stakeholder influence, and marketing expenses. A number of countries including Canada, parts of Europe, and Brazil **use** external reference pricing as a means to compare drug prices and to determine a base price for a particular medication. Other countries use pharmacoeconomics, which looks at the cost/benefit of a pro...
2479. ...of countries including Canada, parts of Europe, and Brazil use external reference pricing as a means to compare drug prices and to determine a base price for a particular medication. Other countries **use** pharmacoeconomics, which looks at the cost/benefit of a product in terms of quality of life, alternative treatments (drug and non-drug), and cost reduction or avoidance in other parts of the health c...
2480. ...ounted to $8.4 billion, a quarter of the entire National Institutes of Health budget. Given the profit-driven nature of pharmaceutical companies and their research and development expenses, companies **use** their research and development expenses as a starting point to determine appropriate yet profitable prices. Pharmaceutical companies spend a large amount on research and development before a drug is...
2481. ...t buccal delivery products have been marketed or are proposed for certain diseases like trigeminal neuralgia, Ménière's disease, diabetes, and addiction. There are many commercial non-drug product to **use** thin films like Mr. Mint and Listerine PocketPaks breath freshening strips. Since then, thin-film products for other breath fresheners, as well as a number of cold, flu, anti-snoring and gastrointest...
2482. ...lating agent, flavoring agents, coloring agents, stabilizing and thickening agents. From the regulatory perspectives, all excipients used in the formulation of oral drug strips should be approved for **use** in oral pharmaceutical dosage forms. The polymer employed should be non-toxic, non-irritant and devoid of leachable impurities. It should have good wetting and spreadability property. The polymer sho...
2483. ...rmulations contain uniform dispersions of drug throughout the whole manufacturing process. Since this criterion is essential for the quality of the thin film and final pharmaceutical dosage form, the **use** of Laser Scanning Confocal Microscopy (LSCM) was recommended to follow the manufacturing process. An increasing number of film-based therapeutics are in development, including: Other molecules like s...
2484. ...and vitamin D are also developed by IntelGenx Zim Laboratories Ltd. Alcohol withdrawal syndrome Alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) is a set of symptoms that can occur following a reduction in alcohol **use** after a period of excessive use. Symptoms typically include anxiety, shakiness, sweating, vomiting, fast heart rate, and a mild fever. More severe symptoms may include seizures, and delirium tremens...
2485. ...d by IntelGenx Zim Laboratories Ltd. Alcohol withdrawal syndrome Alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) is a set of symptoms that can occur following a reduction in alcohol use after a period of excessive **use**. Symptoms typically include anxiety, shakiness, sweating, vomiting, fast heart rate, and a mild fever. More severe symptoms may include seizures, and delirium tremens (DTs); which can be fatal in unt...
2486. ...lts. The drinker eventually must consume alcohol just to avoid the physical cravings and withdrawal symptoms. About half of people with alcoholism will develop withdrawal symptoms upon reducing their **use**, with four percent developing severe symptoms. Among those with severe symptoms up to 15% die. Symptoms of alcohol withdrawal have been described at least as early as 400 BC by Hippocrates. It is not...
2487. ...ed, occurring in 3–5% of cases. Meanwhile, none of the earlier withdrawal symptoms will typically have abated. Seizures carry the risk of major complications and death for individuals with an alcohol **use** disorder. Although the person's condition usually begins to improve after 48 hours, withdrawal symptoms sometimes continue to increase in severity and advance to the most severe stage of withdrawal,...
2488. ...he alcohol withdrawal syndrome can occasionally be protracted. Protracted delirium tremens has been reported in the medical literature as a possible but unusual feature of alcohol withdrawal. Chronic **use** of alcohol leads to changes in brain chemistry especially in the GABAergic system. Various adaptations occur such as changes in gene expression and down regulation of GABA receptors. During acute alc...
2489. ...epeated alcohol detoxifications leads to an increased severity of the withdrawal syndrome. For example, binge drinkers may initially experience no withdrawal symptoms, but with each period of alcohol **use** followed by cessation, their withdrawal symptoms intensify in severity and may eventually result in full-blown delirium tremens with convulsive seizures. Alcoholics who experience seizures during det...
2490. ...l-related cognitive damage. Kindling from repeated withdrawals leads to accumulating neuroadaptive changes. Kindling may also be the reason for cognitive damage seen in binge drinkers. Many hospitals **use** the Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment for Alcohol (CIWA) protocol in order to assess the level of withdrawal present and therefore the amount of medication needed. When overuse of alcohol is s...
2491. ...fective in symptoms control, but needs to be used carefully. Although benzodiazepines have a long history of successfully treating and preventing withdrawal, there is no consensus on the ideal one to **use**. The most commonly used agents are long-acting benzodiazepines, such as chlordiazepoxide and diazepam. These are believed to be superior to other benzodiazepines for treatment of delirium and allow f...
2492. ...with liver problems. Benzodiazepines showed a protective benefit against alcohol withdrawal symptoms, in particular seizure, compared to other common methods of treatment. The primary debate between **use** of long-acting benzodiazepines and short-acting is that of ease of use. Longer-acting drugs, such as diazepam, can be administered less frequently. However, evidence does exist that "symptom-triggere...
2493. ...st alcohol withdrawal symptoms, in particular seizure, compared to other common methods of treatment. The primary debate between use of long-acting benzodiazepines and short-acting is that of ease of **use**. Longer-acting drugs, such as diazepam, can be administered less frequently. However, evidence does exist that "symptom-triggered regimens" such as those used when treating with lorazepam, are as saf...
2494. ...a banana bag for intravenous administration. Very limited evidence indicates that topiramate or pregabalin may be useful in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal syndrome. Limited evidence supports the **use** of gabapentin or carbamazepine for the treatment of mild or moderate alcohol withdrawal as the sole treatment or as combination therapy with other medications; however, gabapentin does not appear to...
2495. ...he sole treatment or as combination therapy with other medications; however, gabapentin does not appear to be effective for treatment of severe alcohol withdrawal and is therefore not recommended for **use** in this setting. A 2010 Cochrane review similarly reported that the evidence to support the role of anticonvulsants over benzodiazepines in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal is not supported. Paral...
2496. ...e, or low-potency phenothiazines (such as chlorpromazine) are particularly risky; if used, extreme caution is required. While intravenous ethanol could theoretically be used, evidence to support this **use**, at least in those who are very sick, is insufficient. Hypertension is common, and some doctors also prescribe beta blockers during withdrawal. Failure to manage the alcohol withdrawal syndrome appro...
2497. ...e or death. It has been proposed that brain damage due to alcohol withdrawal may be prevented by the administration of NMDA antagonists, calcium antagonists, and glucocorticoid antagonists. Continued **use** of benzodiazepines may impair recovery from psychomotor and cognitive impairments from alcohol. Cigarette smoking may slow down or interfere with recovery of brain pathways in recovering alcoholics....
2498. ...gan injury such as liver or kidney damage and are categorized as "complex". Drugs can also cause hair and nail changes, affect the mucous membranes, or cause itching without outward skin changes. The **use** of synthetic pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals in medicine has revolutionized human health, allowing us to live longer lives. Consequently, the average human adult is exposed to many drugs over...
2499. ...health, allowing us to live longer lives. Consequently, the average human adult is exposed to many drugs over longer treatment periods throughout a lifetime. This unprecedented rise in pharmaceutical **use** has led to an increasing number of observed adverse drug reactions. There are two broad categories of adverse drug reactions. Type A reactions are known side effects of a drug that are largely predic...
2500. ...monly, shampoo is available in solid bar format. Shampoo is used by applying it to wet hair, massaging the product into the scalp, and then rinsing it out. Some users may follow a shampooing with the **use** of hair conditioner. Shampoo is typically used to remove the unwanted build-up of sebum (natural oils) in the hair without stripping out so much as to make hair unmanageable. Shampoo is generally mad...
2501. ...o containers accurately list ingredients on the products container. The government further regulates what shampoo manufacturers can and cannot claim as any associated benefit. Shampoo producers often **use** these regulations to challenge marketing claims made by competitors, helping to enforce these regulations. While the claims may be substantiated, however, the testing methods and details of such clai...
2502. ...Malassezia furfur". Coal tar and salicylate derivatives are often used as well. Alternatives to medicated shampoos are available for people who wish to avoid synthetic fungicides. Such shampoos often **use** tea tree oil, essential oils or herbal extracts. Many companies have also developed color-protection shampoos suitable for colored hair; some of these shampoos contain gentle cleansers according to t...
2503. ...ses under the premise of "No More Tears". This is accomplished by one or more of the following formulation strategies. The distinction in 4 above does not completely surmount the controversy over the **use** of shampoo ingredients to mitigate eye sting produced by other ingredients, or the use of the products so formulated. The considerations in 3 and 4 frequently result in a much greater multiplicity of...
2504. ...llowing formulation strategies. The distinction in 4 above does not completely surmount the controversy over the use of shampoo ingredients to mitigate eye sting produced by other ingredients, or the **use** of the products so formulated. The considerations in 3 and 4 frequently result in a much greater multiplicity of surfactants being used in individual baby shampoos than in other shampoos, and the det...
2505. ...hampoos are much less common in the better baby shampoos. Sulfate-free shampoos are composed of natural ingredients and free from both sodium lauryl sulfate and sodium laureth sulfate. These shampoos **use** alternative surfactants to cleanse the hair. Shampoo intended for animals may contain insecticides or other medications for treatment of skin conditions or parasite infestations such as fleas or mang...
2506. ...nimals, any human haircare products that contain active ingredients or drugs (such as zinc in anti-dandruff shampoos) are potentially toxic when ingested by animals. Special care must be taken not to **use** those products on pets. Cats are at particular risk due to their instinctive method of grooming their fur with their tongues. Shampoos that are especially designed to be used on pets, commonly dogs a...
2507. ...als, antiseborrheic, antibacterials, antifungals, emollients, emulsifiers and humectants. Whereas some of these ingredients may be efficient in treating some conditions, pet owners are recommended to **use** them according to their veterinarian's indications because many of them cannot be used on cats or can harm the pet if it is misused. Generally, insecticidal pet shampoos contain pyrethrin, pyrethroid...
2508. ...s or irritation. Shampoos that do not contain any unnatural additives are known as hypoallergenic shampoos and are increasing in popularity. Solid shampoos or shampoo bars can either be soap-based or **use** other plant-based surfactants, such as sodium cocoyl isethionate or sodium coco-sulfate combined with oils and waxes. Soap-based shampoo bars are high in pH (alkaline) compared to human hair and scal...
2509. ...us conditions, as well as in humans before some surgical procedures. Closely associated with environmentalism, the "no poo" movement consists of people rejecting the societal norm of frequent shampoo **use**. Some adherents of the no poo movement use baking soda or vinegar to wash their hair, while others use diluted honey. Further methods include the use of raw eggs (potentially mixed with salt water),...
2510. ...some surgical procedures. Closely associated with environmentalism, the "no poo" movement consists of people rejecting the societal norm of frequent shampoo use. Some adherents of the no poo movement **use** baking soda or vinegar to wash their hair, while others use diluted honey. Further methods include the use of raw eggs (potentially mixed with salt water), rye flour, or chickpea flour dissolved in w...
2511. ...talism, the "no poo" movement consists of people rejecting the societal norm of frequent shampoo use. Some adherents of the no poo movement use baking soda or vinegar to wash their hair, while others **use** diluted honey. Further methods include the use of raw eggs (potentially mixed with salt water), rye flour, or chickpea flour dissolved in water. Other people use nothing or rinse their hair only with...
2512. ...e rejecting the societal norm of frequent shampoo use. Some adherents of the no poo movement use baking soda or vinegar to wash their hair, while others use diluted honey. Further methods include the **use** of raw eggs (potentially mixed with salt water), rye flour, or chickpea flour dissolved in water. Other people use nothing or rinse their hair only with conditioner. In the 1970s, ads featuring Farra...
2513. ...egar to wash their hair, while others use diluted honey. Further methods include the use of raw eggs (potentially mixed with salt water), rye flour, or chickpea flour dissolved in water. Other people **use** nothing or rinse their hair only with conditioner. In the 1970s, ads featuring Farrah Fawcett and Christie Brinkley asserted that it was unhealthy not to shampoo several times a week. This mindset is...
2514. ...baceous glands to produce oil at a higher rate, to compensate for what is lost during shampooing. According to Michelle Hanjani, a dermatologist at Columbia University, a gradual reduction in shampoo **use** will cause the sebum glands to produce at a slower rate, resulting in less grease in the scalp. Although this approach might seem unappealing to some individuals, many people try alternate shampooing...
2515. ...ling to some individuals, many people try alternate shampooing techniques like baking soda and vinegar in order to avoid ingredients used in many shampoos that make hair greasy over time. Whereas the **use** of baking soda for hair cleansing has been associated with hair damage and skin irritation, likely due to its high pH value and exfoliating properties, honey, egg, rye flour, and chickpea flour hair...
2516. ...has been associated with hair damage and skin irritation, likely due to its high pH value and exfoliating properties, honey, egg, rye flour, and chickpea flour hair washes seem gentler for long-term **use**. G. W. Scott Blair George William Scott Blair (23 July 1902 – 30 September 1987) was British chemist noted for his contributions to rheology. In fact he has been called "the first rheologist" Scott B...
2517. ...K, K, or R. It can be calculated as the steady-state concentration in the plasma multiplied by the clearance: formula_1 Polysubstance dependence Polysubstance dependence refers to a type of substance **use** disorder in which an individual uses at least three different classes of substances indiscriminately and does not have a favorite substance that qualifies for dependence on its own. Although any comb...
2518. ...that qualifies for dependence on its own. Although any combination of three substances can be used, studies have shown that alcohol is commonly used with another substance. One study on polysubstance **use** categorized participants who used multiple substances according to their substance of preference. The results of a longitudinal study on substance use led the researchers to observe that excessively...
2519. ...th another substance. One study on polysubstance use categorized participants who used multiple substances according to their substance of preference. The results of a longitudinal study on substance **use** led the researchers to observe that excessively using or relying on one substance increased the probability of excessively using or relying on another substance. The three substances were cocaine, al...
2520. ...d verbal ability. This study showed that in polysubstance dependent women, verbal learning ability was significantly decreased, though visual memory was not affected. In addition, alcohol and cocaine **use** led to more severe issues with verbal learning, recall, and recognition. Sometimes studies about specific groups in the general population can be informative. One study decided to test the cognitive...
2521. ...g memory and reasoning were caused by the misuse of multiple substances. Another study that tried to find differences between the effects of particular substances focused on people with polysubstance **use** who were seeking treatment for addictions to cannabis, cocaine, and heroin. They studied a group of people with polysubstance use and a group that was not dependent on any substances. Because alcohol...
2522. ...effects of particular substances focused on people with polysubstance use who were seeking treatment for addictions to cannabis, cocaine, and heroin. They studied a group of people with polysubstance **use** and a group that was not dependent on any substances. Because alcohol was a common co-substance for nearly all of the people in the polysubstance use group, it was difficult to tell exactly which sub...
2523. ...They studied a group of people with polysubstance use and a group that was not dependent on any substances. Because alcohol was a common co-substance for nearly all of the people in the polysubstance **use** group, it was difficult to tell exactly which substances were affecting certain cognitive functions. The researchers found that the difference in the two groups' performance levels on executive funct...
2524. ...king, while cocaine and heroin had a similar negative effect on visual and spatial tasks, but cannabis particularly affected visual and spatial working memory. These results suggest that the combined **use** of cannabis, cocaine, and heroin impair more cognitive functions more severely than if used separately. Alcohol's negative effects on learning, spatial abilities and memory has been shown in many stu...
2525. ...any studies. This raises a question: does using alcohol in combination with other substances impair cognitive functioning even more? One study decided to try to determine if people with polysubstance **use** who also recreationally use alcohol would display poorer performance on a verbal learning and memory test in comparison to those who consumed excessive amounts of alcohol specifically. The California...
2526. ...uestion: does using alcohol in combination with other substances impair cognitive functioning even more? One study decided to try to determine if people with polysubstance use who also recreationally **use** alcohol would display poorer performance on a verbal learning and memory test in comparison to those who consumed excessive amounts of alcohol specifically. The California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT)...
2527. ...l learning and memory" by evaluating errors made during the test and the strategies used to make those errors. The results of this study showed that the group of people with polysubstance and alcohol **use** performed poorly on the CVLT recall and recognition tests compared to the group of people who exclusively consumed excessive alcohol only, which implies that polysubstance use impaired the memory and...
2528. ...lysubstance and alcohol use performed poorly on the CVLT recall and recognition tests compared to the group of people who exclusively consumed excessive alcohol only, which implies that polysubstance **use** impaired the memory and learning in a different way than the effects of alcohol alone can explain. To examine whether abstinence for long periods of time helps people with polysubstance use recover t...
2529. ...substance use impaired the memory and learning in a different way than the effects of alcohol alone can explain. To examine whether abstinence for long periods of time helps people with polysubstance **use** recover their cognitive function, a group of researchers tested 207 polysubstance dependent men, of whom 73.4% were dependent on three or more substances. The researchers were interested in six areas...
2530. ...researchers suggested that further research should be done. However, there are studies that have found evidence of the influence of genes on vulnerability to substance dependence. These studies often **use** genotype, or the genetic information found on a person's chromosomes, and phenotype, which consists of the visible features of a person, to look at genetic patterns. One study examined the phenotype...
2531. ...medication hypothesis, that views substance addiction as a form of coping with stress through negative reinforcement, by temporarily alleviating awareness of or concerns over the stressor. People who **use** substances learn that the effects of each type of substance works to relieve or better painful states. They use substances as a form of self-medication to deal with difficulties of self-esteem, relat...
2532. ...ment, by temporarily alleviating awareness of or concerns over the stressor. People who use substances learn that the effects of each type of substance works to relieve or better painful states. They **use** substances as a form of self-medication to deal with difficulties of self-esteem, relationships, and self-care. Individuals with substance use disorders often are overwhelmed with emotions and painfu...
2533. ...ubstance works to relieve or better painful states. They use substances as a form of self-medication to deal with difficulties of self-esteem, relationships, and self-care. Individuals with substance **use** disorders often are overwhelmed with emotions and painful situations and turn to substances as a coping method. The sociocultural causes are areas in a person's life that might have influenced their...
2534. ...e adds to the emotional and physical pain and triggers stress transmitters, which in turn creates a craving, which must then be medicated, and thus the cycle begins again. However, the next time they **use**, more of the substance will need to be used to get to the same degree of intoxication . Scientists have hypothesized that the use of a substance either causes a mood disorder such as depression or at...
2535. ...dicated, and thus the cycle begins again. However, the next time they use, more of the substance will need to be used to get to the same degree of intoxication . Scientists have hypothesized that the **use** of a substance either causes a mood disorder such as depression or at least attributes to a pre-existing one. Additionally, the substances that people with depression use can be a misguided method of...
2536. ...s have hypothesized that the use of a substance either causes a mood disorder such as depression or at least attributes to a pre-existing one. Additionally, the substances that people with depression **use** can be a misguided method of self-medication in order to manage their depression. This is the classic chicken or egg hypothesis, does the pre-existing condition cause dependence or does dependence ca...
2537. ...pendence occurs, which means that alcohol is a major contributor to depression. One study showed that patients who are recovering from an addiction, who have had an eating disorder in the past, often **use** food to try to replace the substance that they are no longer getting. Or they obsess over controlling their weight and appearance. Some rehabilitation centers have licensed nutritionists to help pati...
2538. ...atment of polysubstance dependence. Medications are a useful aid in helping to prevent or reducing substance cravings. Another benefit of medications is helping to preventing relapse. Since substance **use** disorders affect brain functioning, medications assist in returning to normal brain functioning. People who use multiple substances require medications for each substance they use, as the current med...
2539. ...vings. Another benefit of medications is helping to preventing relapse. Since substance use disorders affect brain functioning, medications assist in returning to normal brain functioning. People who **use** multiple substances require medications for each substance they use, as the current medications do not treat all substance use disorders simultaneously. Medications are a useful aid in treatments, bu...
2540. ...se. Since substance use disorders affect brain functioning, medications assist in returning to normal brain functioning. People who use multiple substances require medications for each substance they **use**, as the current medications do not treat all substance use disorders simultaneously. Medications are a useful aid in treatments, but are not effective when they are the sole treatment method. There a...
2541. ...medications assist in returning to normal brain functioning. People who use multiple substances require medications for each substance they use, as the current medications do not treat all substance **use** disorders simultaneously. Medications are a useful aid in treatments, but are not effective when they are the sole treatment method. There are not very many studies that have examined how often polys...
2542. ...from the National Epidemiological Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions, approximately 215.5 out of a total of 43,093 individuals in the United States (0.5%) met the requirements for polysubstance **use** disorder. Another study suggested that the number of new cases of polysubstance dependence has been going up. This idea was supported by a study that took place in Munich, Germany. A group of researc...
2543. ...nternational Diagnostic Interview (CIDI). The researchers collected data from 3,021 participants, all between the ages of 14 and 24, to estimate the prevalence, or total number of cases, of substance **use** and of polysubstance use/dependence. The results of this study indicated that of the 17.3% who said that they regularly used substances, 40% said that they used more than one substance, but 3.9% spec...
2544. ...nterview (CIDI). The researchers collected data from 3,021 participants, all between the ages of 14 and 24, to estimate the prevalence, or total number of cases, of substance use and of polysubstance **use**/dependence. The results of this study indicated that of the 17.3% who said that they regularly used substances, 40% said that they used more than one substance, but 3.9% specifically reported using t...
2545. ...d that they regularly used substances, 40% said that they used more than one substance, but 3.9% specifically reported using three or more substances, indicating that there is a lot of overlap in the **use** of different substances. The researchers compared their results to earlier German studies and found that substance dependence seems to be increasing, at least in Germany. Women and men differ in vari...
2546. ...any. Women and men differ in various ways when it comes to addictions. Research has shown that women are more likely to be polysubstance dependent. It has been noted that a larger percentage of women **use** licit (legal) substances such as tranquilizers, sedatives, and stimulants. On the other hand, men are more likely to use illicit (illegal) substances such as cocaine, methamphetamine, and other illic...
2547. ...e polysubstance dependent. It has been noted that a larger percentage of women use licit (legal) substances such as tranquilizers, sedatives, and stimulants. On the other hand, men are more likely to **use** illicit (illegal) substances such as cocaine, methamphetamine, and other illicit substances. Research suggests that women addicts more frequently have a family history of substance use. When asked to...
2548. ...more likely to use illicit (illegal) substances such as cocaine, methamphetamine, and other illicit substances. Research suggests that women addicts more frequently have a family history of substance **use**. When asked to describe their onset of addictions, women more frequently describe their addiction as sudden where as men describe them as gradual. Females have a higher percentage of fatty tissues an...
2549. ...other endogenous substance. For example: Formulary (pharmacy) A formulary is a list of pharmaceutical drugs, often decided upon by a group of people, for various reasons such as insurance coverage or **use** at a medical facility. Traditionally, a formulary contained a collection of formulas for the compounding and testing of medication (a resource closer to what would be referred to as a pharmacopoeia t...
2550. ...be found in at least two places, the PBS webpage and the Australian Medicines Handbook. "The Prescription Drug List" is the national formulary that lists all medical ingredients for human and animal **use** available with a prescription with the exception of those under the "Controlled Drugs and Substances Act". The "Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health" (CADTH) is the advisory body that...
2551. ...t bacteria (this fact is in keeping with the bacterial-origin theory of mitochondria). The Mn-SOD enzyme is probably one of the most ancient, for nearly all organisms living in the presence of oxygen **use** it to deal with the toxic effects of superoxide (), formed from the 1-electron reduction of dioxygen. The exceptions, which are all bacteria, include "Lactobacillus plantarum" and related lactobacill...
2552. ...al with the toxic effects of superoxide (), formed from the 1-electron reduction of dioxygen. The exceptions, which are all bacteria, include "Lactobacillus plantarum" and related lactobacilli, which **use** a different nonenzymatic mechanism with manganese (Mn) ions complexed with polyphosphate, suggesting a path of evolution for this function in aerobic life. Manganese is also important in photosynthet...
2553. .... The NABP has written that it endorses LegitScript on behalf of the government agencies that license and regulate pharmacies and pharmacists in the United States, Canada, and other jurisdictions for **use** "by search engine advertising programs, Domain Name Registrars, registries, payment processing companies, social media companies, and other Internet platforms to ensure that Internet platforms operat...
2554. ...ing is associated with a number of health problems, including cervical cancer, pelvic inflammatory disease, endometritis, and increased risk of sexually transmitted infections. The word's first known **use** is in 1766. "Douche" came into English via French, from "conduit pipe" and "docciare" "pour by drops" to douche, from "doccia" water pipe, probably back-formation from "doccione" conduit, from , "duc...
2555. ...27 women ages 18–44 who were regular users of a douche product and who had been treated recently for a sexually transmitted bacterial infection or bacterial vaginosis. Women were randomly assigned to **use** either a newly designed and marketed douche product or a soft cloth towelette. There was little or no indication of a greater risk of PID among women assigned to use the douche product (versus soft c...
2556. .... Women were randomly assigned to use either a newly designed and marketed douche product or a soft cloth towelette. There was little or no indication of a greater risk of PID among women assigned to **use** the douche product (versus soft cloth towelette). Antiseptics used during douching disturb the natural balance of bacteria in the vagina and can cause infections. Unclean douching equipment may intro...
2557. ...ly discouraged except when ordered by a physician for medical reasons. Douching after intercourse is estimated to reduce the chances of conception by only about 30%. In comparison, proper male condom **use** reduces the chance of conception by as much as 98%. In some cases douching may force the ejaculate further into the vagina, increasing the chance of pregnancy. A review of studies by researchers at t...
2558. ...uide professionals in the pharmaceutical industry through all parts of the process of bringing new medications to the market. The ISPE writes standards and guidelines for individuals and companies to **use** and to model their practices after. The ISPE also hosts training sessions and conferences for professionals to attend, learn, and collaborate with others in the field. Peptization The peptization of...
2559. ...on, transmission, and filling of a medical prescription, taking the place of paper and faxed prescriptions. E-prescribing allows a physician, physician assistant, pharmacist, or nurse practitioner to **use** digital prescription software to electronically transmit a new prescription or renewal authorization to a community or mail-order pharmacy. It outlines the ability to send error-free, accurate, and u...
2560. ...d MBBS doctors in Bangladesh for this Digital prescription writing software. High court of Bangladesh issued a rule that doctors need to write the prescription in readable format meaning they need to **use** software of ALL caps later while writing prescription. This software also stores the medical history of patients and doctors can access these data easily from anywhere using the Internet. On March 22...
2561. ...ry and will enable prescribers to electronically transmit a prescription to a patient’s pharmacy of choice. Physicians, physician assistants, nurse practitioners and other prescribers will be able to **use** the system either through their existing electronic medical record or through a standalone application. Health Canada included supporting better prescribing practices, including e-prescribing, as par...
2562. ...dicine from their closest pharmacy. 99% of all prescriptions in the country are issued electronically. This frees up time for patients and doctors, and reduces administrative strain on hospitals. The **use** of electronic prescription has been designated as an important strategic policy to improve health care in Europe. The aim of the European Union is to have a cross-border electronic healthcare system...
2563. ...ealthcare system in Europe which will enable EU citizens to obtain e-Prescriptions anywhere in Europe. The Scandinavian countries are leading Europe in deploying e-Prescription. Other countries which **use** the prescription process routinely are Norway, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Italy, Iceland, Greece, England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. The European Union is pushing...
2564. ...ctitioner each week. They account for about 80% of the cost of medication in primary care. Paper based Repeat Dispensing Services were introduced by the NHS in 1991, and in 1992 it became possible to **use** the NHS Electronic Prescription Service for this purpose. In 2017 awareness of the scheme among patients was low. In October 2017 Keith McNeil, NHS England's chief clinical information officer demand...
2565. ...system which was piloted at Midlands Partnership NHS Foundation Trust from 2020. In the United States, the HITECH Act promotes adoption of this technology by defining e-prescribing as one meaningful **use** of an electronic medical record. Standards for transmitting, recording, and describing prescriptions have been developed by the National Council for Prescription Drug Programs, in particular the SCRI...
2566. ...h care systems have been slower to adopt e-prescribing standards. Adoption of e-prescribing technology has accelerated in the United States, in large part, due to the arrival of Stage 2 of meaningful **use**. One of the Stage 2 core measures is: "Generate and transmit permissible prescriptions electronically (e-Rx.)" In order to meet this measure, practices must prescribe and transmit at least 50 percent...
2567. ...fice-based physicians now e-prescribe in the United States. A more recent report released by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health IT in June 2012 finds that 48 percent of U.S. physicians **use** e-prescribing systems. National growth in e-prescribing over the period September 2008 through June 2012 increased over 40 percent, with individual states increasing adoption anywhere from 28 percent...
2568. ...y methodologies are primarily efficacy through precision of medication delivery. New standards for infusible pharmaceuticals have been achieved in recent years with the advent of pre-filled, ready-to-**use**, dose-specific products. Advanced aseptic presentation, with hermetically sealed containers, allows predictable sterility, ease of use, improved control, and lower total costs. Essentially, systemati...
2569. ...achieved in recent years with the advent of pre-filled, ready-to-use, dose-specific products. Advanced aseptic presentation, with hermetically sealed containers, allows predictable sterility, ease of **use**, improved control, and lower total costs. Essentially, systematizing the delivery mechanism and standardizing the delivery container. Infusion therapy involves the administration of medication throug...
2570. ...s well known that intracellular Cu(I) is cytotoxic, which means CuAAC is not as common as SPAAC click reactions for research leading to in-vivo applications. The researchers for this study decided to **use** CuAAC, despite the purpose of this research to have in-vivo applications, for a few reasons. First, the likelihood for copper to be bound by the formula_2 protein is low due to the presence of only 2...
2571. ...in laboratory conditions. In addition, spiders generally tend to be cannibalistic, so breeding sufficient numbers becomes difficult. Forced silking yields unsuitable silks. The most popular proposed **use** case for dermal applications are: Research shows silkworm silk does not possess any inherent antibiotic characteristics, bio-mimicking mechanical properties, and can cause fatal respiratory allergic...
2572. ...more quickly. The first defoamers were aimed at breaking down visible foam at the surface. Kerosene, fuel oil and other light oil products were used to break down foam. Vegetable oils also found some **use**. Fatty alcohols (C7 – C22) were effective but expensive antifoams. They were added to oil products to boost the efficiency. Milk and cream were forebears for modern-day emulsion type defoamers. Durin...
2573. ...water solutions, or water-based emulsions. EO/PO copolymers normally have good dispersing properties and are often well suited when deposit problems are an issue. Alkyl polyacrylates are suitable for **use** as defoamers in non-aqueous systems where air release is more important than the breakdown of surface foam. These defoamers are often delivered in a solvent carrier like petroleum distillates. The mo...
2574. ...y-state AUC. Parecoxib sodium is a water-soluble inactive ester amide prodrug of valdecoxib, a novel second-generation COX-2-specific inhibitor and the first such agent to be developed for injectable **use**. It is rapidly converted by hepatic enzymatic hydrolysis to the active form valdecoxib. The compound then undergoes another conversion, which involves both cytochrome P450-mediated pathway (CYP2C9, C...
2575. ...xibs produce oxidative stress, indicated by enhanced vascular superoxide(O) content and elevated peroxide in plasma, which is in tune with enhanced expression of NADPH oxidase, which was noticed with **use** of diclofenac and naproxen and, to a lesser degree, rofecoxib and celecoxib. Nitrite in plasma was also decreased suggesting a diminished synthesis of vascular nitric oxide (NO). This decrease in NO...
2576. ...to more oxidative stress produced by eNOS. In a study, both the selective COX-2 inhibitors and the non-selective NSAIDs produced oxidative stress, with greater effects seen with non-selective NSAIDs **use**. This could fit with the hypothesis concerning the prostacyclin/thromboxane imbalance. That is, although the non-selective NSAIDs produce more oxidative stress, they prevent platelet aggregation, whe...
2577. ...ed synonymously, some industries distinguish between the two; a nonconformity represents a failure to meet an intended state and specification, while a defect represents a failure to meet fitness for **use**/normal usage requirements. This can be seen in the international software engineering standard ISO/IEC 25010 (formerly ISO/IEC 9126), which defines a nonconformity as the nonfulfillment of a requirem...
2578. ...armacophore of Ang II. Structural modifications were made and the orally active, potent and selective nonpeptide AT receptor blocker losartan was developed. In 1995 losartan was approved for clinical **use** in the United States and since then six additional ARBs have been approved. These drugs are known for their excellent side-effects profiles, which clinical trials have shown to be similar to those of...
2579. ...versus mass of medication. Not all medications have a fixed relationship on this scale. Methadone is different from most opioids because its potency can vary depending on how long it is taken. Acute **use** (1–3 days) yields a potency about 1.5× stronger than that of morphine and chronic use (7 days+) yields a potency about 2.5 to 5× that of morphine. Similarly, the effect of tramadol increases after co...
2580. ...e. Methadone is different from most opioids because its potency can vary depending on how long it is taken. Acute use (1–3 days) yields a potency about 1.5× stronger than that of morphine and chronic **use** (7 days+) yields a potency about 2.5 to 5× that of morphine. Similarly, the effect of tramadol increases after consecutive dosing due to the accumulation of its active metabolite and an increase of t...
2581. ....5 to 5× that of morphine. Similarly, the effect of tramadol increases after consecutive dosing due to the accumulation of its active metabolite and an increase of the oral bioavailability in chronic **use**. Explanatory notes Citations Bibliography Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS or PFASs) are a group of synthetic organofluorine chemical compounds that have...
2582. ...PFASs) are a group of synthetic organofluorine chemical compounds that have multiple fluorine atoms attached to an alkyl chain; there are 7 million such chemicals according to PubChem. PFAS came into **use** after the invention of Teflon in 1938 to make fluoropolymer coatings and products that resist heat, oil, stains, grease, and water. They are now used in products including waterproof fabric such as N...
2583. ...ensive disorders in pregnancy, reduced infant and fetal growth and developmental issues in children, obesity, dyslipidemia (abnormally high cholesterol), and higher rates of hormone interference. The **use** of PFAS has been regulated internationally by the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants since 2009, with some jurisdictions, such as China and the European Union, planning further red...
2584. ...e US$6–62 billion. Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances are a group of synthetic organofluorine chemical compounds that have multiple fluorine atoms attached to an alkyl chain. Different organizations **use** different definitions for PFAS, leading to estimates of between 8,000 and 7 million chemicals within the group. The EPA toxicity database, DSSTox, lists 14,735 unique PFAS chemical compounds. An earl...
2585. ...e contaminants from the birds often enter the food chain directly since the birds are the prey of many species. In 2017, the ABC's current affairs program "Four Corners" reported that the storage and **use** of firefighting foams containing perfluorinated surfactants at Australian Defence Force facilities around Australia had contaminated nearby water resources. In 2019, remediation efforts at RAAF Base...
2586. ...t 2024, Health Canada established an objective of 30 ng/L for the sum of the concentration of 25 PFASs detected in drinking water. The New Zealand Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has banned the **use** of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) in cosmetic products starting from 31 December 2026. This will make the country one of the first in the world to take this step on PFAS to protect people...
2587. ...can pose to drinking water. Germany, the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, and Sweden submitted a so-called restriction proposal based on the REACH regulation to achieve a European ban on the production, **use**, sale and import of PFAS. The proposal states that a ban is necessary for all use of PFAS, with different periods for different applications when the ban takes effect (immediately after the restricti...
2588. ...submitted a so-called restriction proposal based on the REACH regulation to achieve a European ban on the production, use, sale and import of PFAS. The proposal states that a ban is necessary for all **use** of PFAS, with different periods for different applications when the ban takes effect (immediately after the restriction comes into force, five years afterward, or 12 years afterward), depending on th...
2589. ...ct (immediately after the restriction comes into force, five years afterward, or 12 years afterward), depending on the function and the availability of alternatives. The proposal has not assessed the **use** of PFAS in medicines, plant protection products, and biocides because specific regulations apply to those substances (Biocidal Products Regulation, Plant Protection Products Regulation, Medicinal Pro...
2590. ...PFASs are no longer manufactured in the United States as a result of phase-outs including the PFOA Stewardship Program (2010–2015), in which eight major chemical manufacturers agreed to eliminate the **use** of PFOA and PFOA-related chemicals in their products and emissions from their facilities. However, they are still produced internationally and are imported into the U.S. in consumer goods. Some types...
2591. ...epublican Party, supported by the U.S. chemical industry filibustered the bill. The water in and around at least 126 U.S. military bases has been contaminated by high levels of PFASs because of their **use** of firefighting foams since the 1970s, according to a study by the U.S. Department of Defense. Of these, 90 bases reported PFAS contamination that had spread to drinking water or groundwater off the...
2592. ...OA and PFOS. Drinking water utilities are required to monitor PFAS levels and may receive subsidies to do so. There are also regulations regarding wastewater (effluent guidelines) for industries that **use** PFASs in the manufacturing process as well as biosolids (processed wastewater sludge used as fertilizer). The EPA issued health advisories for four specific PFASs in June 2022, significantly lowering...
2593. ...ed by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection as PFAS6) are measured either individually or summed as a group depending on the standard; they are: In 2021 California banned PFASs for **use** in food packaging and from infant and children's products and also required PFAS cookware in the state to carry a warning label. A program licensed and promoted by the Maine Department of Environment...
2594. ...l filed suit in the New Jersey Superior Court against Solvay regarding PFAS contamination of the state's environment. In May 2021, Solvay issued a press release that the company is "discontinuing the **use** of fluorosurfactants in the U.S.". In 2016, New York, along with Vermont and New Hampshire, acknowledged PFOA contamination by requesting the EPA to release water quality guidance measures. Contamina...
2595. ...ified by the United States, Israel, and Malaysia. The long-chain (C–C) PFCAs are currently under review for listing. Occupational exposure to PFASs occurs in numerous industries due to the widespread **use** of the chemicals in products and as an element of industrial process streams. PFASs are used in more than 200 different ways in industries as diverse as electronics and equipment manufacturing, plast...
2596. ...production, food and textile production, and building and construction. Occupational exposure to PFASs can occur at fluorochemical facilities that produce them and other manufacturing facilities that **use** them for industrial processing like the chrome plating industry. Workers who handle PFAS-containing products can also be exposed during their work, such as people who install PFAS-containing carpets...
2597. ...her reported occupational and residential exposures, ski waxing had the highest total PFAS air concentrations. People who work at fluorochemical production plants and in manufacturing industries that **use** PFASs in the industrial process can be exposed to PFASs in the workplace. Much of what we know about PFAS exposure and health effects began with medical surveillance studies of workers exposed to PFA...
2598. ...ucted. A 2015 cross-sectional study conducted in Australia found that PFOS and PFHxS accumulation was positively associated with years of occupational AFFF exposure through firefighting. Due to their **use** in training and testing, studies indicate occupational risk for military members and firefighters, as higher levels of PFASs exposure were indicated in military members and firefighters when compared...
2599. ...ters, as higher levels of PFASs exposure were indicated in military members and firefighters when compared to the general population. PFAS exposure is prevalent among firefighters not only due to its **use** in emergencies but also because it is used in personal protective equipment. In support of these findings, states like Washington and Colorado have moved to restrict and penalize the use of Class B f...
2600. ...y due to its use in emergencies but also because it is used in personal protective equipment. In support of these findings, states like Washington and Colorado have moved to restrict and penalize the **use** of Class B firefighting foam for firefighter training and testing. The September 11 attacks and resulting fires caused the release of toxic chemicals used in materials such as stain-resistant coating...
2601. ...posed to dust. Several strategies have been proposed as a way to protect those who are at greatest risk of occupational exposure to PFAS, including exposure monitoring, regular blood testing, and the **use** of PFAS-free alternatives such as fluorine-free firefighting foam and plant-based ski wax. PFASs were found in many plant-based straws, such as paper straws. Several technologies are currently availa...
2602. ...the PFASs breakdown using metal-organic frameworks (MOFs). Analytical methods for PFAS analysis fall into one of two general categories; targeted analysis or non-targeted analysis. Targeted analyses **use** reference standards to determine concentrations of specific PFAS, but this requires a high-purity standard for each compound of interest. Due to the large number of possible targets, unusual PFAS may...
2603. ...btracting the mass of target analytes from the non-targeted analysis results, one can get an estimate for what fraction of PFAS has been "missed" by the targeted analysis. Targeted analysis generally **use** liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LC-MS) instruments. Currently, EPA Method 537.1 is approved for use in drinking water and includes 18 PFAS. EPA Method 1633 is undergoing review for use in wa...
2604. ...t fraction of PFAS has been "missed" by the targeted analysis. Targeted analysis generally use liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LC-MS) instruments. Currently, EPA Method 537.1 is approved for **use** in drinking water and includes 18 PFAS. EPA Method 1633 is undergoing review for use in wastewater, surface water, groundwater, soil, biosolids, sediment, landfill leachate, and fish tissue for 40 PF...
2605. ...rally use liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry (LC-MS) instruments. Currently, EPA Method 537.1 is approved for use in drinking water and includes 18 PFAS. EPA Method 1633 is undergoing review for **use** in wastewater, surface water, groundwater, soil, biosolids, sediment, landfill leachate, and fish tissue for 40 PFAS, but is currently being used by many laboratories in the United States. Regulatory...
2606. ...a novel method of choice for the preparation of homogeneous blends of thermoplastic and elastomer. In emulsion dispersion system the preparation of well-fined polymers droplets may be acquired by the **use** of water as dispersing medium. The surfactant molecules adsorb on the surface of emulsion by creating a dispersion of droplets, which reduces interfacial tension and retards particle flocculation dur...
2607. ...Sodium adsorption ratio The sodium adsorption ratio (SAR) is an irrigation water quality parameter used in the management of sodium-affected soils. It is an indicator of the suitability of water for **use** in agricultural irrigation, as determined from the concentrations of the main alkaline and earth alkaline cations present in the water. It is also a standard diagnostic parameter for the sodicity haz...
2608. ...nt (as in cases where cocaine is mixed with lactose powder), and cases where the claimed active ingredients are substituted by something cheaper ("e.g.", when methamphetamine is sold as cocaine). The **use** of diluents in illegal drugs reduces the potency of the drugs and makes it hard for users to determine the appropriate dosage level. Diluents include "foodstuffs (flour and baby milk formula), sugars...
2609. ...ensions, where the symmetry is well adapted to the mode of reproduction of the organism. The limited content of genetic material places a restriction on the size of the protein to be coded by it. The **use** of a large number of the same proteins to build a protective shell is consistent with the limited length of RNA or DNA content. It has been known for many years that, due to repulsive Coulombic inter...
2610. ...d, leading to the development of several methods to control the self-assembly of the colloidal particles. Examples include colloidal epitaxy and space-based reduced-gravity techniques, as well as the **use** of temperature gradients to define a density gradient. This is somewhat counterintuitive as temperature does not play a role in determining the hard-sphere phase diagram. However, hard-sphere single...
2611. ...rticle orientations experimentally confirmed a body of theoretical work on the condensed phases of non-spherical objects. Assembly of crystals from non-spherical colloids can also be directed via the **use** of electrical fields. Technologically, colloidal crystals have found application in the world of optics as photonic band gap (PBG) materials (or photonic crystals). Synthetic opals as well as inverse...
2612. ...filters in the ultraviolet, visible, or infrared portions of the spectrum, as well as higher efficiency antennae at microwave and millimeter wave frequencies. Self-assembly is the most common term in **use** in the modern scientific community to describe the spontaneous aggregation of particles (atoms, molecules, colloids, micelles, etc.) without the influence of any external forces. Large groups of such...
2613. ...ge or income may participate. Participation in the Oregon Prescription Drug Program is voluntary. Medicare Part D prescription plan enrollees would be eligible to join. Participants receive a card to **use** at participating pharmacies to purchase prescription drugs at the discounted price. The measure did not call for any state funding for implementation of the measure. During the November 7, 2006 gener...
2614. ...histleblower in United States ex rel. Franklin v. Parke-Davis, the case from which the first documents in the archive originated. Researchers as well as students, journalists, and the general public, **use** the archive to investigate the ways pharmaceutical companies market their products. The UCSF_Library created this digital archive in an attempt to facilitate further research into the drug industry's...
2615. ...e rate. These polymeric coatings may be applied to a wide variety of liquid and solid dosages, each specially suited for the route of administration. Tablets are small, solid dosages suitable for the **use** of mucoadhesive coatings. The coating may be formulated to adhere to a specific mucosa, enabling both systemic and targeted local administration. Tablets are generally taken enterally, as the size an...
2616. ...aerosols are common dosage forms in the nasal cavity. However, recent research into particles and microspheres have shown increased bioavailability over non-solid forms of medicine largely due to the **use** of mucoadhesives. Within the eye, it is difficult to achieve therapeutic concentrations through systemic administration. Often, other parts of the body will reach toxic levels of the medication befor...
2617. ...standard A drug reference standard or pharmaceutical reference standard is a highly characterized material suitable to test the identity, strength, quality and purity of substances for pharmaceutical **use** and medicinal products. Pharmacopoeial reference standards are a subset of pharmaceutical reference standards. They are established for the intended use described in pharmacopeial texts (monographs a...
2618. ...ty and purity of substances for pharmaceutical use and medicinal products. Pharmacopoeial reference standards are a subset of pharmaceutical reference standards. They are established for the intended **use** described in pharmacopeial texts (monographs and general chapters). Pharmacopeial reference standards are available from various pharmacopoeias such as United States Pharmacopeia and the European Pha...
2619. ...ters). Pharmacopeial reference standards are available from various pharmacopoeias such as United States Pharmacopeia and the European Pharmacopoeia. Where pharmacopoeial tests or assays call for the **use** of a pharmacopoeial reference standard, only those results obtained using the specified pharmacopoeial reference standard are conclusive. Powder mixture A powder is an assembly of dry particles dispe...
2620. ...mus and diarrhea. They are also often prescribed after urinary bladder surgery. B&O Supprettes was unique in the United States because they were the only drug containing opium that is for suppository **use** sold in the US and, in fact, one of the very few medications that contains opium in any form in the US along with paregoric and opium tincture (laudanum). B&O Supprettes (the name is derived from the...
2621. ..., and those with chronic kidney disease) or the carrier (usually substituting cocoa butter) to best meet the needs of the patient at the request of the prescriber. Effects of long-term benzodiazepine **use** The effects of long-term benzodiazepine use may include drug dependence as well as the possibility of adverse effects on cognitive function, physical health, and mental health. Long-term use is somet...
2622. ...the carrier (usually substituting cocoa butter) to best meet the needs of the patient at the request of the prescriber. Effects of long-term benzodiazepine use The effects of long-term benzodiazepine **use** may include drug dependence as well as the possibility of adverse effects on cognitive function, physical health, and mental health. Long-term use is sometimes described as use not shorter than three...
2623. ...iazepine use The effects of long-term benzodiazepine use may include drug dependence as well as the possibility of adverse effects on cognitive function, physical health, and mental health. Long-term **use** is sometimes described as use not shorter than three months. Benzodiazepines are generally effective when used therapeutically in the short term, but even then the risk of dependency can be significa...
2624. ...ng-term benzodiazepine use may include drug dependence as well as the possibility of adverse effects on cognitive function, physical health, and mental health. Long-term use is sometimes described as **use** not shorter than three months. Benzodiazepines are generally effective when used therapeutically in the short term, but even then the risk of dependency can be significantly high. There are significa...
2625. ...tive when used therapeutically in the short term, but even then the risk of dependency can be significantly high. There are significant physical, mental and social risks associated with the long-term **use** of benzodiazepines. Although anxiety can temporarily increase as a withdrawal symptom, there is evidence that a reduction or withdrawal from benzodiazepines can lead in the long run to a reduction of...
2626. ...there is evidence that a reduction or withdrawal from benzodiazepines can lead in the long run to a reduction of anxiety symptoms. Due to these increasing physical and mental symptoms from long-term **use** of benzodiazepines, slow withdrawal is recommended for long-term users. Not everyone [a few? most? what percentage?], however, experiences problems with long-term use. Some of the symptoms that could...
2627. ...d mental symptoms from long-term use of benzodiazepines, slow withdrawal is recommended for long-term users. Not everyone [a few? most? what percentage?], however, experiences problems with long-term **use**. Some of the symptoms that could possibly occur as a result of a withdrawal from benzodiazepines after long-term use include emotional clouding, flu-like symptoms, suicide, nausea, headaches, dizzine...
2628. ...yone [a few? most? what percentage?], however, experiences problems with long-term use. Some of the symptoms that could possibly occur as a result of a withdrawal from benzodiazepines after long-term **use** include emotional clouding, flu-like symptoms, suicide, nausea, headaches, dizziness, irritability, lethargy, sleep problems, memory impairment, personality changes, aggression, depression, social de...
2629. ...oblems, memory impairment, personality changes, aggression, depression, social deterioration as well as employment difficulties, while others never have any side effects from long-term benzodiazepine **use**. Abruptly or rapidly stopping benzodiazepines can be dangerous; when withdrawing, a gradual reduction in dosage is recommended, under professional supervision. While benzodiazepines are highly effect...
2630. ...when withdrawing, a gradual reduction in dosage is recommended, under professional supervision. While benzodiazepines are highly effective in the short term, adverse effects associated with long-term **use**, including impaired cognitive abilities, memory problems, mood swings, and overdoses when combined with other drugs, may make the risk-benefit ratio unfavourable. In addition, benzodiazepines have re...
2631. ...ome individuals and thus are considered to be addictive drugs, especially in individuals that have a "drug-seeking" behavior; further, a physical dependence can develop after a few weeks or months of **use**. Many of these adverse effects associated with long-term use of benzodiazepines begin to show improvements three to six months after withdrawal. Other concerns about the effects associated with long-...
2632. ..., especially in individuals that have a "drug-seeking" behavior; further, a physical dependence can develop after a few weeks or months of use. Many of these adverse effects associated with long-term **use** of benzodiazepines begin to show improvements three to six months after withdrawal. Other concerns about the effects associated with long-term benzodiazepine use, in some, include dose escalation, be...
2633. ...rse effects associated with long-term use of benzodiazepines begin to show improvements three to six months after withdrawal. Other concerns about the effects associated with long-term benzodiazepine **use**, in some, include dose escalation, benzodiazepine use disorder, tolerance and benzodiazepine dependence and benzodiazepine withdrawal problems. Both physiological tolerance and dependence can be asso...
2634. ...epines begin to show improvements three to six months after withdrawal. Other concerns about the effects associated with long-term benzodiazepine use, in some, include dose escalation, benzodiazepine **use** disorder, tolerance and benzodiazepine dependence and benzodiazepine withdrawal problems. Both physiological tolerance and dependence can be associated with worsening the adverse effects associated w...
2635. ...problems. Both physiological tolerance and dependence can be associated with worsening the adverse effects associated with benzodiazepines. Increased risk of death has been associated with long-term **use** of benzodiazepines in several studies; however, other studies have not found increased mortality. Due to conflicting findings in studies regarding benzodiazepines and increased risks of death includi...
2636. ...r, other studies have not found increased mortality. Due to conflicting findings in studies regarding benzodiazepines and increased risks of death including from cancer, further research in long-term **use** of benzodiazepines and mortality risk has been recommended; most of the available research has been conducted in prescribed users, even less is known about illicit misusers. The long-term use of benz...
2637. ...ng-term use of benzodiazepines and mortality risk has been recommended; most of the available research has been conducted in prescribed users, even less is known about illicit misusers. The long-term **use** of benzodiazepines is controversial and has generated significant debate within the medical profession. Views on the nature and severity of problems with long-term use of benzodiazepines differ from...
2638. ...illicit misusers. The long-term use of benzodiazepines is controversial and has generated significant debate within the medical profession. Views on the nature and severity of problems with long-term **use** of benzodiazepines differ from expert to expert and even from country to country; some experts even question whether there is any problem with the long-term use of benzodiazepines. Effects of long-te...
2639. ...nd severity of problems with long-term use of benzodiazepines differ from expert to expert and even from country to country; some experts even question whether there is any problem with the long-term **use** of benzodiazepines. Effects of long-term benzodiazepine use may include disinhibition, impaired concentration and memory, depression, as well as sexual dysfunction. The long-term effects of benzodiaz...
2640. ...s differ from expert to expert and even from country to country; some experts even question whether there is any problem with the long-term use of benzodiazepines. Effects of long-term benzodiazepine **use** may include disinhibition, impaired concentration and memory, depression, as well as sexual dysfunction. The long-term effects of benzodiazepines may differ from the adverse effects seen after acute...
2641. ...r a gradual taper and do not take benzodiazepines for 6 months have less severe sleep and anxiety problems, are less distressed and have a general feeling of improved health at 6-month follow-up. The **use** of benzodiazepines for the treatment of anxiety has been found to lead to a significant increase in healthcare costs due to accidents and other adverse effects associated with the long-term use of be...
2642. .... The use of benzodiazepines for the treatment of anxiety has been found to lead to a significant increase in healthcare costs due to accidents and other adverse effects associated with the long-term **use** of benzodiazepines. Long-term benzodiazepine use can lead to a generalised impairment of cognition, including sustained attention, verbal learning and memory and psychomotor, visuo-motor and visuo-co...
2643. ...anxiety has been found to lead to a significant increase in healthcare costs due to accidents and other adverse effects associated with the long-term use of benzodiazepines. Long-term benzodiazepine **use** can lead to a generalised impairment of cognition, including sustained attention, verbal learning and memory and psychomotor, visuo-motor and visuo-conceptual abilities. Transient changes in the brai...
2644. ...and beta activity, decreased K complexes and delta activity, and decreased deep slow-wave sleep (i.e., NREM stages 3 and 4, the most restorative part of sleep for both energy and mood). The long-term **use** of benzodiazepines may have a similar effect on the brain as alcohol, and is also implicated in depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), mania, psychosis, sleep disorders, sexual d...
2645. ...rectly cause or worsen other psychiatric symptoms (e.g., mood, anxiety, psychosis, irritability) by worsening sleep (i.e., benzodiazepine-induced sleep disorder). These effects are paradoxical to the **use** of benzodiazepines, both clinically and non-medically, in management of mental health conditions.  Long-term benzodiazepine use may lead to the creation or exacerbation of physical and mental health...
2646. ...diazepine-induced sleep disorder). These effects are paradoxical to the use of benzodiazepines, both clinically and non-medically, in management of mental health conditions.  Long-term benzodiazepine **use** may lead to the creation or exacerbation of physical and mental health conditions, which improve after six or more months of abstinence. After a period of about 3 to 6 months of abstinence after comp...
2647. ...ned on hypnotic medication had no improvements in their insomnia, anxiety, or general health ratings. A study found that individuals having withdrawn from benzodiazepines showed a marked reduction in **use** of medical and mental health services. Approximately half of patients attending mental health services for conditions including anxiety disorders such as panic disorder or social phobia may be the re...
2648. ...ations. A study found that of 42 patients treated with alprazolam, up to a third of long-term users of the benzodiazepine drug alprazolam (Xanax) develop depression. Studies have shown that long-term **use** of benzodiazepines and the benzodiazepine receptor agonist nonbenzodiazepine Z drugs are associated with causing depression as well as a markedly raised suicide risk and an overall increased mortalit...
2649. ...markedly raised suicide risk and an overall increased mortality risk. A study of 50 patients who attended a benzodiazepine withdrawal clinic found that, after several years of chronic benzodiazepine **use**, a large portion of patients developed health problems including agoraphobia, irritable bowel syndrome, paraesthesiae, increasing anxiety, and panic attacks, which were not preexisting. The mental he...
2650. ...aphobia, irritable bowel syndrome, paraesthesiae, increasing anxiety, and panic attacks, which were not preexisting. The mental health and physical health symptoms induced by long-term benzodiazepine **use** gradually improved significantly over a period of a year following completion of a slow withdrawal. Three of the 50 patients had wrongly been given a preliminary diagnosis of multiple sclerosis when...
2651. ...following completion of a slow withdrawal. Three of the 50 patients had wrongly been given a preliminary diagnosis of multiple sclerosis when the symptoms were actually due to chronic benzodiazepine **use**. Ten of the patients had taken drug overdoses whilst on benzodiazepines, despite the fact that only two of the patients had any prior history of depressive symptomatology. After withdrawal, no patien...
2652. ...ents was hypothesised to be caused by increasing tolerance where withdrawal-type symptoms emerged, despite the administration of stable prescribed doses. Another theory is that chronic benzodiazepine **use** causes subtle increasing toxicity, which in turn leads to increasing psychopathology in long-term users of benzodiazepines. Long-term use of benzodiazepines can induce perceptual disturbances and dep...
2653. ...escribed doses. Another theory is that chronic benzodiazepine use causes subtle increasing toxicity, which in turn leads to increasing psychopathology in long-term users of benzodiazepines. Long-term **use** of benzodiazepines can induce perceptual disturbances and depersonalization in some people, even in those taking a stable daily dosage, and it can also become a protracted withdrawal feature of the b...
2654. ...nd depersonalization in some people, even in those taking a stable daily dosage, and it can also become a protracted withdrawal feature of the benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome. In addition, chronic **use** of benzodiazepines is a risk factor for blepharospasm. Drug-induced symptoms that resemble withdrawal-like effects can occur on a set dosage as a result of prolonged use, also documented with barbitu...
2655. ...yndrome. In addition, chronic use of benzodiazepines is a risk factor for blepharospasm. Drug-induced symptoms that resemble withdrawal-like effects can occur on a set dosage as a result of prolonged **use**, also documented with barbiturate-like substances, as well as alcohol and benzodiazepines. This demonstrates that the effects from chronic use of benzodiazepine drugs are not unique but occur with ot...
2656. ...fects can occur on a set dosage as a result of prolonged use, also documented with barbiturate-like substances, as well as alcohol and benzodiazepines. This demonstrates that the effects from chronic **use** of benzodiazepine drugs are not unique but occur with other GABAergic sedative hypnotic drugs, i.e., alcohol and barbiturates. Chronic use of benzodiazepines seemed to cause significant immunological...
2657. ...odiazepines. This demonstrates that the effects from chronic use of benzodiazepine drugs are not unique but occur with other GABAergic sedative hypnotic drugs, i.e., alcohol and barbiturates. Chronic **use** of benzodiazepines seemed to cause significant immunological disorders in a study of selected outpatients attending a psychopharmacology department. Diazepam and clonazepam have been found to have lo...
2658. ...le with tetanus. It has been proposed that diazepam may cause long-lasting changes to the GABA receptors with resultant long-lasting disturbances to behaviour, endocrine function and immune function. **Use** of prescribed benzodiazepines is associated with an increased rate of suicide or attempted suicide. The prosuicidal effects of benzodiazepines are suspected to be due to a psychiatric disturbance cau...
2659. ...ng benzodiazepines in depressed adolescents. Benzodiazepine dependence often results in an increasingly deteriorating clinical picture, which includes social deterioration leading to comorbid alcohol **use** disorder and substance use disorder. Benzodiazepine misuse or misuse of other CNS depressants increases the risk of suicide in drug misusers. Benzodiazepine has several risks based on its biochemical...
2660. ...ssed adolescents. Benzodiazepine dependence often results in an increasingly deteriorating clinical picture, which includes social deterioration leading to comorbid alcohol use disorder and substance **use** disorder. Benzodiazepine misuse or misuse of other CNS depressants increases the risk of suicide in drug misusers. Benzodiazepine has several risks based on its biochemical function and symptoms asso...
2661. ...elf-care functions, amnesia and disinhibition are suggested as a possible explanation to the increase in mortality. Studies also demonstrate that an increased mortality associated with benzodiazepine **use** has been clearly documented among 'drug misusers'. There has been some controversy around the possible link between benzodiazepine use and development of cancer; early cohort studies in the 1980s sug...
2662. ...trate that an increased mortality associated with benzodiazepine use has been clearly documented among 'drug misusers'. There has been some controversy around the possible link between benzodiazepine **use** and development of cancer; early cohort studies in the 1980s suggested a possible link, but follow-up case-control studies have found no link between benzodiazepines and cancer. In the second U.S. na...
2663. .... A markedly increased risk of cancer was found in users of sleeping pills, mainly benzodiazepines. Fifteen epidemiologic studies have suggested that benzodiazepine or nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic drug **use** is associated with increased mortality, mainly due to increased cancer death. The cancers included cancer of the brain, lung, bowel, breast, and bladder, and other neoplasms. It has been hypothesised...
2664. ...g the nonbenzodiazepine Z drugs due to concerns of cancer, ultimately they changed their minds and approved the drugs. A 2017 meta-analysis of multiple observational studies found that benzodiazepine **use** is associated with increased cancer risk. In a study in 1980 in a group of 55 consecutively admitted patients having engaged in non-medical use of exclusively sedatives or hypnotics, neuropsychologic...
2665. ...ultiple observational studies found that benzodiazepine use is associated with increased cancer risk. In a study in 1980 in a group of 55 consecutively admitted patients having engaged in non-medical **use** of exclusively sedatives or hypnotics, neuropsychological performance was significantly lower and signs of intellectual impairment significantly more often diagnosed than in a matched control group t...
2666. ...r and signs of intellectual impairment significantly more often diagnosed than in a matched control group taken from the general population. These results suggested a relationship between non-medical **use** of sedatives or hypnotics and cerebral disorder. A publication asked in 1981 if lorazepam is more toxic than diazepam. In a study in 1984, 20 patients having taken long-term benzodiazepines were subm...
2667. ...een CT scan appearances and the duration of benzodiazepine therapy. The clinical significance of the findings was unclear. In 1986, it was presumed that permanent brain damage may result from chronic **use** of benzodiazepines similar to alcohol-related brain damage. In 1987, 17 inpatient people who used high doses of benzodiazepines non-medically have anecdotally shown enlarged cerebrospinal fluid space...
2668. ...o 6-year follow-up study of 30 inpatient people who used benzodiazepines non-medically, Neuropsychological function was found to be permanently affected in some people long-term high dose non-medical **use** of benzodiazepines. Brain damage similar to alcoholic brain damage was observed. The CT scan abnormalities showed dilatation of the ventricular system. However, unlike people who consume excessive al...
2669. ...s. Brain damage similar to alcoholic brain damage was observed. The CT scan abnormalities showed dilatation of the ventricular system. However, unlike people who consume excessive alcohol, people who **use** sedative hypnotic agents non-medically showed no evidence of widened cortical sulci. The study concluded that, when cerebral disorder is diagnosed in people who use high doses of sedative hypnotic be...
2670. ...sume excessive alcohol, people who use sedative hypnotic agents non-medically showed no evidence of widened cortical sulci. The study concluded that, when cerebral disorder is diagnosed in people who **use** high doses of sedative hypnotic benzodiazepines, it is often permanent. A CT study in 1993 investigated brain damage in benzodiazepine users and found no overall differences to a healthy control grou...
2671. ...zepine users and found no overall differences to a healthy control group. A study in 2000 found that long-term benzodiazepine therapy does not result in brain abnormalities. Withdrawal from high-dose **use** of nitrazepam anecdotally was alleged in 2001 to have caused severe shock of the whole brain with diffuse slow activity on EEG in one patient after 25 years of use. After withdrawal, abnormalities in...
2672. ...malities. Withdrawal from high-dose use of nitrazepam anecdotally was alleged in 2001 to have caused severe shock of the whole brain with diffuse slow activity on EEG in one patient after 25 years of **use**. After withdrawal, abnormalities in hypofrontal brain wave patterns persisted beyond the withdrawal syndrome, which suggested to the authors that organic brain damage occurred from chronic high-dose...
2673. .... After withdrawal, abnormalities in hypofrontal brain wave patterns persisted beyond the withdrawal syndrome, which suggested to the authors that organic brain damage occurred from chronic high-dose **use** of nitrazepam. Professor Heather Ashton, a leading expert on benzodiazepines from Newcastle University Institute of Neuroscience, has stated that there is no structural damage from benzodiazepines, a...
2674. ...versity Institute of Neuroscience, has stated that there is no structural damage from benzodiazepines, and advocates for further research into long-lasting or possibly permanent symptoms of long-term **use** of benzodiazepines as of 1996. She has stated that she believes that the most likely explanation for lasting symptoms is persisting but slowly resolving functional changes at the GABA benzodiazepine...
2675. ...r knowledge never been used to investigate the question of whether benzodiazepines cause functional or structural brain damage. A 2018 review of the research found a likely causative role between the **use** of benzodiazepines and an increased risk of dementia, but the exact nature of the relationship is still a matter of debate. Benzodiazepines, when introduced in 1961, were widely believed to be safe d...
2676. ...till a matter of debate. Benzodiazepines, when introduced in 1961, were widely believed to be safe drugs but as the decades went by increased awareness of adverse effects connected to their long-term **use** became known. Recommendations for more restrictive medical guidelines followed. Concerns regarding the long-term effects of benzodiazepines have been raised since 1980. These concerns are still not f...
2677. ...edical guidelines followed. Concerns regarding the long-term effects of benzodiazepines have been raised since 1980. These concerns are still not fully answered. A review in 2006 of the literature on **use** of benzodiazepine and nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics concluded that more research is needed to evaluate the long-term effects of hypnotic drugs. The majority of the problems of benzodiazepines are relat...
2678. ...nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics concluded that more research is needed to evaluate the long-term effects of hypnotic drugs. The majority of the problems of benzodiazepines are related to their long-term **use** rather than their short-term use. There is growing evidence of the harm of long-term use of benzodiazepines, especially at higher doses. In 2007, the Department of Health recommended that individuals...
2679. ...luded that more research is needed to evaluate the long-term effects of hypnotic drugs. The majority of the problems of benzodiazepines are related to their long-term use rather than their short-term **use**. There is growing evidence of the harm of long-term use of benzodiazepines, especially at higher doses. In 2007, the Department of Health recommended that individuals on long-term benzodiazepines be...
2680. ...term effects of hypnotic drugs. The majority of the problems of benzodiazepines are related to their long-term use rather than their short-term use. There is growing evidence of the harm of long-term **use** of benzodiazepines, especially at higher doses. In 2007, the Department of Health recommended that individuals on long-term benzodiazepines be monitored at least every 3 months and also recommended a...
2681. ...at least every 3 months and also recommended against long-term substitution therapy in benzodiazepine drug misusers due to a lack of evidence base for effectiveness and due to the risks of long-term **use**. The long-term effects of benzodiazepines are very similar to the long-term effects of alcohol consumption (apart from organ toxicity) and other sedative-hypnotics. Withdrawal effects and dependence...
2682. ...fatal. Physical dependence and withdrawal are very much related but not the same thing. A report in 1987 by the Royal College of Psychiatrists in Great Britain reported that any benefits of long-term **use** of benzodiazepines are likely to be far outweighed by the risks of long-term use. Despite this benzodiazepines are still widely prescribed. The socioeconomic costs of the continued widespread prescri...
2683. ...thing. A report in 1987 by the Royal College of Psychiatrists in Great Britain reported that any benefits of long-term use of benzodiazepines are likely to be far outweighed by the risks of long-term **use**. Despite this benzodiazepines are still widely prescribed. The socioeconomic costs of the continued widespread prescribing of benzodiazepines is high. In 1980, the Medical Research Council (United Ki...
2684. ...c costs of the continued widespread prescribing of benzodiazepines is high. In 1980, the Medical Research Council (United Kingdom) recommended that research be conducted into the effects of long-term **use** of benzodiazepines A 2009 British Government parliamentary inquiry recommended that research into the long-term effects of benzodiazepines must be carried out. The view of the Department of Health is...
2685. ...long-term effects of benzodiazepines must be carried out. The view of the Department of Health is that they have made every effort to make doctors aware of the problems associated with the long-term **use** of benzodiazepines, as well as the dangers of benzodiazepine drug addiction. In 1980, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency's Committee on the Safety of Medicines issued guidance re...
2686. ...pines, as well as the dangers of benzodiazepine drug addiction. In 1980, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency's Committee on the Safety of Medicines issued guidance restricting the **use** of benzodiazepines to short-term use and updated and strengthened these warnings in 1988. When asked by Phil Woolas in 1999 whether the Department of Health had any plans to conduct research into the...
2687. ...odiazepine drug addiction. In 1980, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency's Committee on the Safety of Medicines issued guidance restricting the use of benzodiazepines to short-term **use** and updated and strengthened these warnings in 1988. When asked by Phil Woolas in 1999 whether the Department of Health had any plans to conduct research into the long-term effects of benzodiazepines...
2688. ...th had any plans to conduct research into the long-term effects of benzodiazepines, the Department replied, saying they have no plans to do so, as benzodiazepines are already restricted to short-term **use** and monitored by regulatory bodies. In a House of Commons debate, Phil Woolas claimed that there had been a cover-up of problems associated with benzodiazepines because they are of too large of a sca...
2689. ...C should be 'one step ahead'" and recommended epidemiological studies be funded and carried out by Roche Pharmaceuticals and MRC sponsored research conducted into the biochemical effects of long-term **use** of benzodiazepines. The meeting aimed to identify issues that were likely to arise, alert the Department of Health to the scale of the problem and identify the pharmacology and nature of benzodiazepi...
2690. ...alth Organization was also interested in the problem and it was felt the meeting would demonstrate to the WHO that the MRC was taking the issue seriously. Among the psychological effects of long-term **use** of benzodiazepines discussed was a reduced ability to cope with stress. The Chairman stated that the "withdrawal symptoms from valium were much worse than many other drugs including, e.g., heroin". I...
2691. ...files came to light over the fact that the Medical Research Council was warned that benzodiazepines prescribed to millions of patients appeared to cause cerebral atrophy similar to hazardous alcohol **use** in some patients and failed to carry out larger and more rigorous studies. "The Independent on Sunday" reported allegations that "scores" of the 1.5 million members of the UK public who use benzodiaz...
2692. ...s alcohol use in some patients and failed to carry out larger and more rigorous studies. "The Independent on Sunday" reported allegations that "scores" of the 1.5 million members of the UK public who **use** benzodiazepines long-term have symptoms that are consistent with brain damage. It has been described as a "huge scandal" by Jim Dobbin, and legal experts and MPs have predicted a class action lawsuit...
2693. ...rts that suggest that benzodiazepines have the potential to cause a syndrome similar to fetal alcohol syndrome, but this has been disputed by a number of studies. As a result of conflicting findings, **use** of benzodiazepines during pregnancy is controversial. The best available evidence suggests that benzodiazepines are not a major cause of birth defects, i.e. major malformations or cleft lip or cleft...
2694. ...zodiazepines are not a major cause of birth defects, i.e. major malformations or cleft lip or cleft palate. Significant toxicity from benzodiazepines can occur in the elderly as a result of long-term **use**. Benzodiazepines, along with antihypertensives and drugs affecting the cholinergic system, are the most common cause of drug-induced dementia affecting over 10 percent of patients attending memory cl...
2695. ..., along with antihypertensives and drugs affecting the cholinergic system, are the most common cause of drug-induced dementia affecting over 10 percent of patients attending memory clinics. Long-term **use** of benzodiazepines in the elderly can lead to a pharmacological syndrome with symptoms including drowsiness, ataxia, fatigue, confusion, weakness, dizziness, vertigo, syncope, reversible dementia, de...
2696. ...of the body and also leads to improvements in cognitive functions in the elderly benzodiazepine hypnotic users without worsening of insomnia. A review of the evidence has found that whilst long-term **use** of benzodiazepines impairs memory, its association with causing dementia is not clear and requires further research. A more recent study found that benzodiazepines are associated with an increased ri...
2697. ...Reported side effects were rare. 2007 meta-analyses conclude that there is some evidence that echinacea may reduce either the duration or severity of the common cold, but results are not consistent. **Use** of echinacea preparations is not currently recommended. In the twelfth century, Moses Maimonides wrote, "Chicken soup ... is recommended as an excellent food as well as medication." Since then, there...

=== JOINT (57 occurrences) ===
1. ...ates House of Representatives for Illinois's 13th congressional district in 1962, at the age of 30, and was re-elected by large majorities in 1964, 1966, and 1968. While in Congress, he served on the **Joint** Economic Committee, the Committee on Science and Aeronautics, and the Government Operations Committee, as well as on the Subcommittees on Military and Foreign Operations. He was also a co-founder of...
2. ...n Science and Astronautics, emphasized the importance of the next stage of the space program following the successful Moon landing in 1969. While serving as Secretary of Defense, Rumsfeld organized a **joint**-cooperation between the Department of Defense and NASA to develop Skylab. Another result of the cooperation was the Space Shuttle program. During his tenure as Secretary of Defense, Rumsfeld worked t...
3. ...ylab. Another result of the cooperation was the Space Shuttle program. During his tenure as Secretary of Defense, Rumsfeld worked to finish the SALT II Treaty. Rumsfeld, together with Chairman of the **Joint** Chiefs of Staff General George S. Brown drafted the treaty. However, an agreement was not made before the 1976 election. SALT II was finished and signed during the Carter administration. In 1977, Rum...
4. ...on Arms Control (1982–1986); President Reagan's special envoy on the Law of the Sea Treaty (1982–1983); a senior adviser to President Reagan's Panel on Strategic Systems (1983–1984); a member of the **Joint** Advisory Commission on U.S./Japan Relations (1983–1984); a member of the National Commission on the Public Service (1987–1990); a member of the National Economic Commission (1988–1989); a member of t...
5. ...ed, even vaporizers warped the ratio of THC (the psychoactive component of the smoke) to CBN (capable of producing medical benefits but is not psychoactive) in favor of CBN. This showed an unfiltered **joint** had the best tar to THC ratio of all, and bongs were actually seriously detrimental in this respect. MAPS also reviewed a study that examined the effects and composition of water-filtered and non-fil...
6. ...clude Entry titles have been shortened in a number of cases, so that if the article title of a company is "XYZ Pharma", for instance, the entry will appear here as "XYZ". Companies which existed as a **joint** venture for their entire existence are indicated by a super-script "JV", as in Perseid. Stimulant Stimulants (also known as central nervous system stimulants, or psychostimulants, or colloquially as...
7. ...Royal Pharmaceutical Society's (RPS) knowledge business; and is jointly published by the BMJ (owned by the BMA), and Pharmaceutical Press (owned by the RPS). It is published under the authority of a **Joint** Formulary Committee (JFC), which comprises pharmacy, medical, nursing, and lay representatives; there are also representatives from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), the...
8. ...e, and reflects, as far as possible, an evaluation of the evidence from diverse sources. The BNF also takes account of authoritative national guidelines and emerging safety concerns. In addition, the **Joint** Formulary Committee takes advice on all therapeutic areas from advisers from expert groups; this ensures that the BNF's recommendations are relevant to practice. In September 2016, the National Insti...
9. ...in the 1950s received the ADA's approval. To develop the first ADA-approved fluoride toothpaste, Procter & Gamble started a research program in the early 1940s. In 1950, Procter & Gamble developed a **joint** research project team headed by Joseph C. Muhler at Indiana University to study new toothpaste with fluoride. In 1955, Procter & Gamble's Crest launched its first clinically proven fluoride-containin...
10. ...Johnson, Lundbeck, Merck & Co., Neurocrine Biosciences, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Pfizer, Sage Therapeutics, Sanofi, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, and UCB. SMARxT Disposal is a **joint** program run by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the American Pharmacists Association, and PhRMA to encourage consumers to properly dispose of unused medicines to avoid harm to the environment. The...
11. ...t. Ultimately, this process leads to restrictive lung disease (a decrease in diffusion capacity). The earliest symptoms are typically cough and shortness of breath. Other symptoms include chest pain, **joint** aches, weight loss, and fever. Rarely, one can get granulomas in other organs including the liver. The onset of symptoms can range from weeks up to tens of years from the initial exposure. In some in...
12. ...ssed by clinical experts within the Food and Drug Administration, including inspections of primary data collection at selected clinical trial sites. In 2001, the editors of 12 major journals issued a **joint** editorial, published in each journal, on the control over clinical trials exerted by sponsors, particularly targeting the use of contracts which allow sponsors to review the studies prior to publicat...
13. ...the 1980s, harmonization of clinical trial protocols was shown as feasible across countries of the European Union. At the same time, coordination between Europe, Japan and the United States led to a **joint** regulatory-industry initiative on international harmonization named after 1990 as the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human...
14. ...ar injection to treat breathing difficulties in horses. Camphor is commonly applied as a topical medication as a skin cream or ointment to relieve itching from insect bites, minor skin irritation, or **joint** pain. It is absorbed in the skin epidermis, where it stimulates nerve endings sensitive to heat and cold, producing a warm sensation when vigorously applied, or a cool sensation when applied gently,...
15. ...disclaimer about trademark ownership in the footer. On 7 December 2021, Merck, which uses the name EMD Electronics in North America, announced they would be investing $1 billion in a U.S. operations **joint** venture with Palantir Technologies to assist in solving some of the chip industries supply chain problems. The plan is for sites in Pennsylvania, Texas, California, and Arizona. Generics UK (Merck's...
16. ...eable jewellery, which is screwed into the threaded hole in the step of the anchor. They should not be implanted in hands, feet, wrists, collarbones or any area where it is not flat or that is near a **joint**. The procedure is usually performed using a dermal punch or needle. When a dermal piercing is done with a punch, the pouch is made in a different way. When using a needle, the pouch is made by separa...
17. ...an Brothers and its world number one ranking for deals by total value. On 1 May 2012, Linklaters entered into an integrated alliance with Australian law firm Allens. Allens and Linklaters operate two **joint** ventures in Asia: one focused on energy, resources and infrastructure services, and another on Indonesia in collaboration with domestic firm Widyawan & Partners. On 1 February 2013, the firm entered...
18. ...ce 2017 the firm has operated in Saudi Arabia in agreement with Zamakhchary & Co. In 2018, the firm partnered with newly established Zhao Sheng Law Firm in order to practise mainland Chinese law. The **joint** operation currently has offices in the Shanghai Free-Trade Zone and in Beijing. In 2021, Linklaters opened an office in Dublin, structured as a separate partnership called "Linklaters & Co", which pr...
19. ...ful in their bid for the former Merck Serono site in Geneva, which had been put up for sale when that company announced in April 2012 that it would be closing its Geneva headquarters. The name of the **joint** initiative is Campus Biotech and the site became a ‘centre of excellence in the fields of healthcare, biotechnology and life sciences’. As part of this, the EPFL and the University of Geneva occupy s...
20. ...been the research Centre for Neuroprosthetics at the EPFL in Lausanne; the partnership with the British government to create the largest marine reserve in the world in Chagos, in the Indian Ocean; a **joint** research and education program in neuroscience between Harvard Medical School and EPFL; the Swiss Sailing Grants in partnership with the Swiss Sailing Federation; and the Henna Pre-School in South Af...
21. ...istol-Myers Squibb until it was purchased by Novartis in July 2005 along with other products from BMS's over-the-counter business. As of March 2015, GSK holds majority ownership of Excedrin through a **joint** venture transaction with Novartis.<ref name="GSK/Novartis Transaction"></ref> On July 18, 2022, GSK spun off its consumer healthcare business (including Excedrin) to Haleon. The brand became known fo...
22. ...edrin, Comtrex and Keri brands) to Novartis for $660 million, in order to focus on drugs for the ten most profitable disease areas. As of March 2015, GlaxoSmithKline held majority ownership through a **joint** venture transaction with Novartis. On January 9, 2012, Novartis announced that it was voluntarily recalling all lots of select bottle-packaging configurations of Excedrin products with expiration dat...
23. ...device could be refilled if necessary. The Analgizer was found to be safe, effective, and simple to administer in obstetric patients during childbirth, as well as for patients with bone fractures and **joint** dislocations, and for dressing changes on burn patients. When used for labor analgesia, the Analgizer allows labor to progress normally and with no apparent adverse effect on Apgar scores. All vital...
24. ...EMA additionally engages with international agencies and non-governmental organizations on areas of mutual interest, such as its participation on the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations' **Joint** Coordination Group. It is also a benefactor of Health Level Seven International, a member of the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use an...
25. ...aded to conditional marketing authorisation on 24 June 2021. The MHRA confirmed in September 2021 that supplementary "booster" doses of these vaccines would be safe and effective, but stated that the **Joint** Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation had the task of advising if and when they should be used in this way. Later that month, the MHRA said the Moderna vaccine could also be given as a booster do...
26. ...mber 2014, both Australia and New Zealand agreed to cease plans to create a shared regulator, citing "a comprehensive review of progress and assessment of the costs and benefits to each country". The **joint** statement announcing the cessation outlines that both the TGA and Medsafe would continue to cooperate on medicine regulation and that the New Zealand Government would still participate in the now def...
27. ...the difference between a newborn and a sixteen-year-old is greater than the difference between a sixteen-year-old and a sixty-year-old. Starting in 2002, Prof Martin Kendall, then chairman of the BNF **Joint** Formulary Committee worked to get things changed. The UK Department of Health (now the DHSC) agreed to fund the BNFC, as it does the BNF, to ensure that NHS clinicians can have up-to-date information...
28. ...including traditional medicines – manufactured in China since the 1950s, 99 percent are copies of foreign products, as are almost 90 percent of China's biotech products. Most Chinese companies – even **joint** ventures – compete with each other for the same generics. Many are struggling for survival; more than 32 percent recorded losses in 1999, according to the Pharmaceutical Department of National Develo...
29. ...western pharmaceutical corporations, such as Pfizer, GSK, Roche, Novo Nordisk, have set up commercial operations and R&D centers in China. Many world leading pharmaceutical companies have established **joint** venture manufactories in China. Some have even set up sole propriety manufactories. As of 2004, amongst the largest 500 overseas enterprises, 14 of them are pharmaceutical companies. As of 2004 (thre...
30. ...y 1,800 foreign-funded pharmaceutical enterprises in China [Reference: Regulatory Trends in China's Pharmaceutical Market]. Currently, all the top 20 pharmaceutical companies in the world have set up **joint** ventures or wholly owned facilities in China. This suggests that market conditions have never been more challenging, with competition at an all-time high. Japanese companies: After China's entry into...
31. ...s were incurred at pharmacy stores.(Meng 2005) The Chinese government legalized foreign ownership of retail pharmacies in 2003. Corporations such as Alliance Boots have formed retail and distribution **joint** ventures in China, mainly focused on Guangdong province. Many companies have said that the drug distribution system in China is inefficient and adds considerably to the retail costs of medicine. Also...
32. ...demand for consultant pharmacists is on the rise. Licensing and accrediting agencies such as Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS), Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), The **Joint** Commission (JC) and individual states licensing bodies encourage healthcare facilities to use consultant pharmacists. Consultants may specialize in one of the following areas: Regulatory, Quality, Te...
33. ...illion, allowing Cigna to start offering new Express Scripts products to its corporate health insurance customers in 2019. Express Scripts began in 1986 in St. Louis County, Missouri as a result of a **joint** venture between a retail chain of more than 79 pharmacies (Medicare Glaser Inc.) and Sanus Corp. Health Systems. Sanus traces its history to Bradford Systems and Administrative Services which was fou...
34. ...uccessful in returning the horse to full functioning potential. Natural healing, guided by the conventional treatments, leads to the formation of fibrous scar tissue that reduces flexibility and full **joint** movement. Traditional treatments prevented a large number of horses from returning to full activity and also have a high incidence of re-injury due to the stiff nature of the scarred tendon. Introduc...
35. ...ed to be carried out to examine the long-term efficacy and risks associated with the use of embryonic stem cells. Similar results have been found in small animals. Osteoarthritis is the main cause of **joint** pain both in animals and humans. Horses and dogs are most frequently affected by arthritis. Natural cartilage regeneration is very limited. Different types of mesenchymal stem cells and other additiv...
36. ...ogram in Molecular Life Sciences, an intensive program offered to University of Pennsylvania freshmen. In addition, they donated funds to launch the Vagelos Program in Life Sciences and Management, a **joint** program between the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and its College of Arts and Sciences. Later, they founded the Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research, supporting the necess...
37. ...much as a mouse. The Oxford team reported their results in the 24 August 1940 issue of "The Lancet", a prestigious medical journal, as "Penicillin as a Chemotherapeutic Agent" with names of the seven **joint** authors listed alphabetically. They concluded: Unbeknown to the Oxford team, their "Lancet" article was read by Martin Henry Dawson, Gladys Hobby and Karl Meyer at Columbia University, and they were...
38. ...ent in e.g. puff ink, automotive underbody coatings and injection molding of thermoplastics. They can also be used as a lightweight filler in e.g. cultured marble, waterborne paints and crack fillers/**joint** compound. Expandable polymer microspheres can expand to more than 50 times their original size when heat is applied to them. The exterior wall of each sphere is a thermoplastic shell that encapsulate...
39. ...rugs through the Committee on Receptor Nomenclature and Drug Classification (NC-IUPHAR), established in 1987. The Guide to Pharmacology established in 2012 superseded the earlier IUPHAR-DB. This is a **joint** endeavor with the British Pharmacological Society, and has been supported by the Wellcome Trust. It includes all the G protein-coupled receptors, voltage-gated ion channels, 7TM receptors, nuclear re...
40. ...re products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and the Commission on Human Medicines. It was extended to hospital pharmacists in 1997, and to community pharmacists in 1999. The Yellow Card Centre Scotland is a **joint** venture between MHRA and the Scottish Government. Suspected adverse reactions are collected on all licensed medicines and vaccines, whether issued on prescription or bought over the counter from a ph...
41. ...es, which aimed to bring biotech investment into the Welsh economy. A year later, it worked with the Welsh Government to create and build the Wales Life Sciences Investment Fund, a £100 million 50/50 **joint** venture life sciences investment fund created to attract business to Wales. The fund has invested in and provided grants to ReNeuron, in which Evans also invested. In 2015, Evans led the investment f...
42. ...Surgery Inventory, Migraine Specific Quality of Life (MSQOL), the Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life questionnaire (ASQoL) and the Seattle Angina Questionnaire (SAQ), to name a few. The American **Joint** Replacement Registry (AJRR) launched their Level III patient-reported outcome (PRO) platform in November 2015 and switched to a new version created and hosted by Ortech Systems in 2016. AJRR imports...
43. ...center said that about 750 people were sickened, including 63 deaths, and that infections were linked to more than 17,600 doses of methylprednisolone acetate steroid injections used to treat back and **joint** pain that were shipped to 23 states. At that time, another incident was reported after at least 15 people at two Texas hospitals developed bacterial infections. All lots of medications dispensed sinc...
44. ...ods in both countries. The authority will replace the Therapeutic Goods Administration in Australia and Medsafe in New Zealand. It has been proposed that the ANZTPA regulate: The establishment of the **joint** authority was postponed by the New Zealand government on 16 July 2007 until such time as there is agreement in the New Zealand parliament to resume the establishment process. The Australian governmen...
45. ...countries will continue to co-operate on the regulation of therapeutic products where there are mutual benefits for consumers, businesses and regulators in each country," the two countries said in a **joint** statement. Cordial (medicine) A cordial is any invigorating and stimulating preparation that is intended for a medicinal purpose. The term derives from an obsolete usage. Various concoctions were for...
46. ...available research capabilities of the UK and future potential growth areas in this sector. An opportunity was identified for the collaboration of the Department of Health and the MHRA in creating a **joint** research service, based upon consolidating and expanding existing independent services. The new service, known as the CPRD has been developed to meet the expectations and criteria outlined by the "Pl...
47. ...noted the absence of Koster's name in the patent application for their cancer treatment method, and the fact that Amsterdam UMC (Koster's employer) had not shared in the profit's resulting from their **joint** research. The "NRC" article noted that as Minister of Education, Culture and Science, Plasterk had successfully worked on a system to have researchers and universities share in profits resulting from...
48. ...Effexor (anti-depressant), Protonix (a proton pump inhibitor for heartburn), Prevnar (a vaccine to prevent ear infections), and Enbrel an anti-inflammatory and the first powerful biotech to help with **joint** inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis. Hassan revived the previously moribund macrolide product rapamycin (sirolimus) for transplantation, based on his previous successful with cyclosporin at Sandoz....
49. ...e the 1990s. Modelling predicted that vaccinating children would increase the number of cases amongst adults due to the absence of natural boosting from exposure to chickenpox in day-to-day life. The **Joint** Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation were concerned that more pregnant women would become infected because immunity in the general population would decrease . Vaccination policy is typically pro...
50. ...approval, though other kinds of exemption requests were more often granted. The judge had previously awarded class action status to the case, extending the suit to cover an estimated more than 12,000 **joint** plaintiffs. All vaccines recommended by the U.S. government for its citizens are required for green card applicants. This requirement stirred controversy over related costs when, in July 2008, it was...
51. ...ion of the underlying blood vessels. Limb perfusion is commonly used for antibiotic administration in cases of localized infection, such as lacerations, cellulitis, infection of a synovial structure (**joint**, tendon sheath, bursa), or osteomyelitis. RLP has been shown to produce antibiotic concentrations 25-50 times the minimum inhibitory concentration in septic joints. Antibiotic selection is important....
52. ...edicines Initiative The Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) is a European initiative to improve the competitive situation of the European Union in the field of pharmaceutical research. The IMI is a **joint** initiative (public-private partnership) of the DG Research of the European Commission, representing the European Communities, and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations...
53. ...tnership) of the DG Research of the European Commission, representing the European Communities, and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). IMI is laid out as a **Joint** Technology Initiative within the Seventh Framework Programme. Michel Goldman was the first executive director, from September 2009 until December 2014. The Innovative Medicines Initiative is aimed to...
54. ...first executive director, from September 2009 until December 2014. The Innovative Medicines Initiative is aimed towards removing research bottlenecks in the current drug development process. The IMI **Joint** Technology Initiative (IMI JTI), to be implemented by the IMI Joint Undertaking is meant to address these research bottlenecks. Its €2bn budget makes it the largest biomedical public-private partners...
55. ...The Innovative Medicines Initiative is aimed towards removing research bottlenecks in the current drug development process. The IMI Joint Technology Initiative (IMI JTI), to be implemented by the IMI **Joint** Undertaking is meant to address these research bottlenecks. Its €2bn budget makes it the largest biomedical public-private partnership in the world. The funding scheme has been criticised, requiring...
56. ...as well. In July 2014, China's paramount leader Xi Jinping and the South Korean government agreed to enforce Korea-China Cooperative Project, regarding Sharing of observation data on air pollutions, **joint** research on an air pollution forecast model and air pollution source identification, and human resources exchanges, etc. Followed by this agreement, in 2018, China and South Korea signed China-Korea...
57. ...first West Coast office in San Francisco. In 2008, Covington entered into a strategic alliance with Institution Quraysh for Law & Policy, a Qatar-based transnational law firm and think-tank, for the **joint** provision of legal and consulting services in the Middle East. Covington's "pro bono" work focuses on providing legal services to people in local communities. Attorneys at the firm can participate in...

=== EFFICIENCY (80 occurrences) ===
1. ...When synthesizing a library of compounds by a multi-step synthesis, efficient reaction methods must be employed, and if traditional purification methods are used after each reaction step, yields and **efficiency** will suffer. Solid-phase synthesis offers potential solutions to obviate the need for typical quenching and purification steps often used in synthetic chemistry. In general, a starting molecule is ad...
2. ...change. When many reactions need to be run in an array (such as the 96 reactions described in one of Armstrong's MCC arrays), some of the more tedious aspects of synthesis can be automated to improve **efficiency**. This work, the "DIVERSOMER method" was pioneered at Parke-Davis in the early 1990s to run up to 40 chemical reactions in parallel. These efforts led to the first commercially available equipment for...
3. ...ndividual compounds as well as from series of compounds prepared by parallel synthesis. It is an important feature that mixtures are used in their synthesis. The use of mixtures ensures the very high **efficiency** of the process. Both reactants can be mixtures and in this case the procedure would be even more efficient. For practical reasons however, it is advisable to use the split-mix method in which one of...
4. ...membrane filters. Two alternative size-selective criteria, often used in atmospheric monitoring, are PM and PM. PM is defined by ISO as "particles which pass through a size-selective inlet with a 50% **efficiency** cut-off at 10 μm aerodynamic diameter" and PM as "particles which pass through a size-selective inlet with a 50% efficiency cut-off at 2.5 μm aerodynamic diameter". PM corresponds to the "thoracic co...
5. ...d by ISO as "particles which pass through a size-selective inlet with a 50% efficiency cut-off at 10 μm aerodynamic diameter" and PM as "particles which pass through a size-selective inlet with a 50% **efficiency** cut-off at 2.5 μm aerodynamic diameter". PM corresponds to the "thoracic convention" as defined in ISO 7708:1995, Clause 6; PM corresponds to the "high-risk respirable convention" as defined in ISO 7...
6. ...ongly. The differences between the individual types of non-ionic surfactants are slight, and the choice is primarily governed having regard to the costs of special properties (e.g., effectiveness and **efficiency**, toxicity, dermatological compatibility, biodegradability) or permission for use in food. Fatty acid ethoxylates are a class of very versatile surfactants, which combine in a single molecule the char...
7. ...ilar processes have been replaced by other dehydration techniques. Skim milk powders are still widely produced using spray drying technology, typically at high solids concentration for maximum drying **efficiency**. Thermal degradation of products can be overcome by using lower operating temperatures and larger chamber sizes for increased residence times. Recent research is now suggesting that the use of spray-...
8. ...rical particle in the Stokes regime this value is not constant, however in the Newtonian drag regime the drag on a sphere can be approximated by a constant, 0.44. This constant value implies that the **efficiency** of transfer of energy from the fluid to the particle is not a function of fluid velocity. As such the terminal velocity of a particle in a Newtonian regime can again be obtained by equating the drag...
9. ...ion and Patent Term Restoration Act, informally known as the Hatch–Waxman Act, standardized procedures for recognition of generic drugs. In 2007, the FDA launched the Generic Initiative for Value and **Efficiency** (GIVE): an effort to modernize and streamline the generic drug approval process, and to increase the number and variety of generic products available. Before a company can market a generic drug, it n...
10. ...the scientific method) receive separate training and degrees unique to either discipline. Pharmacoinformatics is considered another new discipline, for systematic drug discovery and development with **efficiency** and safety. Pharmacogenomics is the study of genetic-linked variants that effect patient clinical responses, allergies, and metabolism of drugs. The World Health Organization estimates that there are...
11. ...used as medicines, still exists as the Chelsea Physic Garden. The society was granted Arms by William Camden (Clarenceux) on 12 December 1617, less than a week after receiving its royal charter; the **efficiency** possibly indicating some planning of the break from the Grocers' Company. The society was not as speedy in settling its bill from the College of Arms however, as payment for the grant was not directe...
12. ...agnesium deficiency and hypomagnesemia, as well as eclampsia. Such preparations are usually in the form of magnesium sulfate or chloride when given parenterally. Magnesium is absorbed with reasonable **efficiency** (30% to 40%) by the body from any soluble magnesium salt, such as the chloride or citrate. Magnesium is similarly absorbed from Epsom salts, although the sulfate in these salts adds to their laxative...
13. ...salts, although the sulfate in these salts adds to their laxative effect at higher doses. Magnesium absorption from the insoluble oxide and hydroxide salts (milk of magnesia) is erratic and of poorer **efficiency**, since it depends on the neutralization and solution of the salt by the acid of the stomach, which may not be (and usually is not) complete. Magnesium orotate may be used as adjuvant therapy in patie...
14. ...across the membrane, which will be affected by the charge on the membrane surface. For example, the specific binding of Mg to the chloroplast envelope has been implicated in a loss of photosynthetic **efficiency** by the blockage of K uptake and the subsequent acidification of the chloroplast stroma. The Mg ion tends to bind only weakly to proteins ("K" ≤ 10) and this can be exploited by the cell to switch enz...
15. ...metal ion in the chlorophyll molecule, and in plants where the ion is in high supply about 6% of the total Mg is bound to chlorophyll. Thylakoid stacking is stabilised by Mg and is important for the **efficiency** of photosynthesis, allowing phase transitions to occur. Mg is probably taken up into chloroplasts to the greatest extent during the light-induced development from proplastid to chloroplast or etiopla...
16. ...esis, it is presumed because of the strong relationships between Mg and chloroplasts/chlorophyll. In pine trees, even before the visible appearance of yellowing and necrotic spots, the photosynthetic **efficiency** of the needles drops markedly. In Mg deficiency, reported secondary effects include carbohydrate immobility, loss of RNA transcription and loss of protein synthesis. However, due to the mobility of M...
17. ...king in the House. They claimed the health care reform bill was being written behind closed doors without their input and that the proposals being consider fall short in reducing costs and increasing **efficiency**, outlining only a fraction of what will be required to achieve a product that does not add to the deficit. Ross was thrust into the national spotlight on July 21 when he and a group of seven Blue Dog...
18. ...lf-life days (approximately 12.32 years) and it decays by beta decay. The electrons produced have an average energy of 5.7 keV. Because the emitted electrons have relatively low energy, the detection **efficiency** by scintillation counting is rather low. However, hydrogen atoms are present in all organic compounds, so tritium is frequently used as a tracer in biochemical studies. C decays by positron emission...
19. ...uch as cLogP to estimate lipophilicity, molecular weight, polar surface area and measured properties, such as potency, in-vitro measurement of enzymatic clearance etc. Some descriptors such as ligand **efficiency** (LE) and lipophilic efficiency (LiPE) combine such parameters to assess druglikeness. While HTS is a commonly used method for novel drug discovery, it is not the only method. It is often possible to...
20. ...ilicity, molecular weight, polar surface area and measured properties, such as potency, in-vitro measurement of enzymatic clearance etc. Some descriptors such as ligand efficiency (LE) and lipophilic **efficiency** (LiPE) combine such parameters to assess druglikeness. While HTS is a commonly used method for novel drug discovery, it is not the only method. It is often possible to start from a molecule which alr...
21. ...ient generation of large screening libraries for the needs of high-throughput screening. However, now, after two decades of combinatorial chemistry, it has been pointed out that despite the increased **efficiency** in chemical synthesis, no increase in lead or drug candidates has been reached. This has led to analysis of chemical characteristics of combinatorial chemistry products, compared to existing drugs or...
22. ...ntify members likely to possess desired properties such as biological activity against a given target. In some cases, combinatorial chemistry is used in the development of the library to increase the **efficiency** in mining the chemical space. More commonly, a diverse library of small molecules or natural products is screened. This is the calculation of quantitative structure–activity relationship and quantita...
23. ...e chemical and metabolic stability, and minimal toxic effects. Several methods are available to estimate druglikeness such as Lipinski's Rule of Five and a range of scoring methods such as lipophilic **efficiency**. Several methods for predicting drug metabolism have also been proposed in the scientific literature. Due to the large number of drug properties that must be simultaneously optimized during the desig...
24. ...o be inhaled. The device features no gas propellant and no need for battery/power to operate. The average droplet size in the mist was measured to 5.8 micrometers, which could indicate some potential **efficiency** problems for the inhaled medicine to reach the lungs. Subsequent trials have proven this was not the case. Due to the very low velocity of the mist, the Soft Mist Inhaler in fact has a higher efficie...
25. ...iciency problems for the inhaled medicine to reach the lungs. Subsequent trials have proven this was not the case. Due to the very low velocity of the mist, the Soft Mist Inhaler in fact has a higher **efficiency** compared to a conventional pMDI. In 2000, arguments were launched towards the European Respiratory Society (ERS) to clarify/expand their definition of a nebulizer, as the new Soft Mist Inhaler in tec...
26. ...and provides a source of heat. In addition, the entrance to the vaporizing chamber is controlled by a bimetallic strip, which admits more gas to the chamber as it cools, to compensate for the loss of **efficiency** of evaporation. The first temperature-compensated plenum vaporizer was the Cyprane 'FluoTEC' Halothane vaporizer, released onto the market shortly after Halothane was introduced into clinical practic...
27. ...e no temperature compensating features. With prolonged use, the liquid agent may cool to the point where condensation and even frost may form on the outside of the reservoir. This cooling impairs the **efficiency** of the vaporizer. One way of minimising this effect is to place the vaporizer in a bowl of water. The relative inefficiency of the drawover vaporizer contributes to its safety. A more efficient desig...
28. ...astic trapping of molecules during liposome formation, and active, which relies on the presence of charged lipids or transmembrane ion gradients. A crucial parameter to consider is the "encapsulation **efficiency**," which is defined as the amount of compound present in the liposome solution divided by the total initial amount of compound used during the preparation. In more recent developments, the application...
29. ...ial amount of compound used during the preparation. In more recent developments, the application of liposomes in single-molecule experiments has introduced the concept of "single entity encapsulation **efficiency**." This term refers to the probability of a specific liposome containing the required number of copies of the compound. To deliver the molecules to a site of action, the lipid bilayer can fuse with ot...
30. ...use trauma to the skin and restricting the performance and flow of the drugs to the body. Because most of MNPs applications are still under development, it is important to note the long effect of the **efficiency** of the drug deliveries. Furthermore, more research is needed to get information of what molecule can be delivered using MNPs. Disposal is also an important topic, as the small plastic backing may con...
31. ...e often able to generate complex groups and structures with minimal economic input, making certain biosynthetic processes far more efficient than total synthesis for producing complex molecules. This **efficiency** drives the preference for natural sources in the preparation of certain compounds, especially when synthesizing them from simpler molecules would be cost-prohibitive. Plants, animals, fungi, and bact...
32. ...criterion used in decision-making by medicinal chemists in pre-clinical drug discovery, for example, in the assessment of druglikeness of drug candidates. Likewise, it is used to calculate lipophilic **efficiency** in evaluating the quality of research compounds, where the efficiency for a compound is defined as its potency, via measured values of pIC or pEC, minus its value of log "P". In the context of pharma...
33. ...l drug discovery, for example, in the assessment of druglikeness of drug candidates. Likewise, it is used to calculate lipophilic efficiency in evaluating the quality of research compounds, where the **efficiency** for a compound is defined as its potency, via measured values of pIC or pEC, minus its value of log "P". In the context of pharmacokinetics (how the body absorbs, metabolizes, and excretes a drug), t...
34. ...s are considered medically sound devices for delivering THC. The proposed factors affecting output include: Not all those have been scientifically tested. Research using vaporizers found the delivery **efficiency** highest at around , falling to about half efficiency at depending on material. The purest preparations produced the highest efficiencies, about 56% for pure THC versus 29% for plant material (female...
35. ...ng THC. The proposed factors affecting output include: Not all those have been scientifically tested. Research using vaporizers found the delivery efficiency highest at around , falling to about half **efficiency** at depending on material. The purest preparations produced the highest efficiencies, about 56% for pure THC versus 29% for plant material (female flower tops) with 12% THCA content. Besides THC, seve...
36. ...through a drug's biological targets), and/or immunogenic endpoints. Pharmacogenomics aims to develop rational means to optimize drug therapy, with regard to the patients' genotype, to achieve maximum **efficiency** with minimal adverse effects. It is hoped that by using pharmacogenomics, pharmaceutical drug treatments can deviate from what is dubbed as the "one-dose-fits-all" approach. Pharmacogenomics also att...
37. ...s N,N-Dimethyltryptamine, hydroxytryptamines, neurosteroids, and both "m"-tyramine and "p"-tyramine which CYP2D6 metabolizes into dopamine in the brain and liver. Considerable variation exists in the **efficiency** and amount of CYP2D6 enzyme produced between individuals. Hence, for drugs that are metabolized by CYP2D6 (that is, are CYP2D6 substrates), certain individuals will eliminate these drugs quickly (ult...
38. ...ually increase in concentration. In some instances, the inhibition may reduce the therapeutic effect, if instead the metabolites of the drug is responsible for the effect. Compounds that increase the **efficiency** of the enzymes, on the other hand, may have the opposite effect and increase the rate of metabolism.  An example of this is shown in the following table for the CYP1A2 enzyme, showing the substrates...
39. ...both associated with cannabis use, although a causal relationship was not established. Cannabis users demonstrated increased activity in task-related brain regions, consistent with reduced processing **efficiency**. A reduced quality of life is associated with heavy cannabis use, although the relationship is inconsistent and weaker than for tobacco and other substances. The direction of cause and effect, howeve...
40. ...t. Cannabis use is associated with increased recruitment of task-related areas, such as the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, which is thought to reflect compensatory activity due to reduced processing **efficiency**. Cannabis use is also associated with downregulation of CB receptors. The magnitude of down regulation is associated with cumulative cannabis exposure, and is reversed after one month of abstinence....
41. ...zed waves of one handedness without handedness change, while absorbing circularly polarized waves of the opposite handedness. A perfect chiral mirror exhibits circular conversion dichroism with ideal **efficiency**. Chiral mirrors can be realized by placing a planar chiral metamaterial in front of a conventional mirror. The concept has been exploited in holography to realize independent holograms for left-hande...
42. ...ion of virtual screening performance, or the LEADS-FRAG data set for fragments An evaluation of docking programs for their potential to reproduce peptide binding modes can be assessed by "Lessons for **Efficiency** Assessment of Docking and Scoring" (LEADS-PEP). A binding interaction between a small molecule ligand and an enzyme protein may result in activation or inhibition of the enzyme. If the protein is a r...
43. ...yer consistently absorbed up to 79% of the impact energy. As the impact velocity increased, so did the effective strength of the CMF layer due to the strain rate sensitivity of the material. The mass **efficiency** ratio of the armours, when compared to rolled homogeneous armour (RHA), was calculated to be 2.1. The CMF hard armours can effectively stop an incoming round at less than half the weight of the requi...
44. ...ed to be 2.1. The CMF hard armours can effectively stop an incoming round at less than half the weight of the required RHA. The weight savings afforded by using such novel armour can improve the fuel **efficiency** of military vehicles without sacrificing the protection of the personnel or the equipment inside. Composite metal foam has been tested in a puncture test. Puncture tests were conducted on S-S CMF-CSP...
45. ...tates typically have longer lifetimes than excited singlets. The prolonged lifetime increases the probability of interacting with other molecules nearby. Photosensitizers experience varying levels of **efficiency** for intersystem crossing at different wavelengths of light based on the internal electronic structure of the molecule. For a molecule to be considered a photosensitizer: It is important to differenti...
46. ...ntensify supervision and control over medicines, and gradually set up a drug management system featuring legal management, unified law enforcement, standard codes of conduct, honest practice and high **efficiency**. To meet the objective requirements of drug administration and the needs of the development of medical services, a drug supervision and management body was formed in 1998. The pharmaceutical industry...
47. ...struction of logistics centers, it is better to build them jointly. In this way, it will help carry out management on the entire logistics operation to speed up the flow of drugs, improve circulation **efficiency** and reduce logistics cost. In 2009, China was the world's second-largest prescription drug market, according to a report released by pharmaceutical market research firm IMS Health. Sales of prescript...
48. ...dysfunction, without loss in antidepressant efficacy. The groundwork is currently being paved for the next generation of pharmacological treatments, which will improve quality of life with increasing **efficiency**. For example, contrary to previous thought, it is now known that the adult brain does to some extent grow new neurons—the study of which, in addition to neurotrophic factors, may hold hope for neurod...
49. ...has shifted towards the goal of doing as little harm as possible to patients. The standards for dose intensity of adjuvant treatments and treatment duration are regularly updated to optimize regimen **efficiency** while minimizing toxic side effects that patients must shoulder. Concomitant or concurrent systemic cancer therapy refers to administering medical treatments at the same time as other therapies, such...
50. ...a variable and dynamic process. The amount of iron absorbed compared to the amount ingested is typically low, but may range from 5% to as much as 35% depending on circumstances and type of iron. The **efficiency** with which iron is absorbed varies depending on the source. Generally, the best-absorbed forms of iron come from animal products. Absorption of dietary iron in iron salt form (as in most supplements)...
51. .... Standard operating procedure A standard operating procedure (SOP) is a set of step-by-step instructions compiled by an organization to help workers carry out routine operations. SOPs aim to achieve **efficiency**, quality output, and uniformity of performance, while reducing miscommunication and failure to comply with industry regulations. Some military services (e.g., in the U.S. and the UK) use the term sta...
52. ...in agility: visibility into supply chain activities and the ability to take responsive action. Particular benefits include the ability to recognise and isolate counterfeit products and to improve the **efficiency** of product recall management. Consumers can access web sites to trace the origins of their purchased products or to find the status of shipments. Consumers can type a code found on an item into a sea...
53. ...drug was synthesised in 1957, but cultivation of mould remains the primary means of production. It was discovered that adding penicillin to animal feed increased weight gain, improved feed-conversion **efficiency**, promoted more uniform growth and facilitated disease control. Agriculture became a major user of penicillin. Shortly after their discovery of penicillin, the Oxford team reported penicillin resistan...
54. ...t gain by 10 per cent. The reasons for this were still subject to debate in the twenty-first century. Subsequent research indicated that adding penicillin to animal feed also improved feed conversion **efficiency**, promoted more uniform growth and facilitated disease control. After the Food and Drug Administration approved the use of penicillin as feed additives for poultry and livestock in 1951, the pharmaceu...
55. ...This produces nanofibers that encourage cell proliferation, antibacterial properties, in controlled environment. These properties appear macroscopically, however, nanoscale versions may show improved **efficiency** due to nanotopographical features. Targeted interfaces between nanofibers and wounds have higher surface area interactions and are advantageous "in vivo". There is evidence that certain nanoparticles...
56. ...es, transistors, logic circuits, lasers, and sensors. Since nanowires have a one-dimensional structure, meaning a large surface-to-volume ratio, the diffusion resistance decreases. In addition, their **efficiency** in electron transport which is due to the quantum confinement effect, makes their electrical properties be influenced by minor perturbation. Therefore, the use of these nanowires in nanosensor elemen...
57. ...Once a specific resistance profile has been isolated via clinical laboratory findings, treatment is often modified as indicated. Vancomycin has long been considered a drug of last resort, due to its **efficiency** in treating multiple drug-resistant infectious agents and the requirement for intravenous administration. Recently, resistance to even vancomycin has been shown in some strains of "S. aureus" (someti...
58. ...only to the enzyme-substrate complex. This type of inhibition causes "V" to decrease (maximum velocity decreases as a result of removing activated complex) and "K" to decrease (due to better binding **efficiency** as a result of Le Chatelier's principle and the effective elimination of the ES complex thus decreasing the "K" which indicates a higher binding affinity). Uncompetitive inhibition is rare. In non-co...
59. ...milk jugs, researchers were able to develop a carbon nanofoam that achieved a very high filtration efficacy (>99.5%) in tests run with 0.7 wt% nanofoam sample for particles smaller than 360 nm. This **efficiency** value even meets the standard requirements of the N95 respirator face masks. The structure of the nanofoam filter gives it an advantage in performance over normal filters when dealing with high parti...
60. ...he nervous system and cell communication as they flood into axons during an action potential to preserve the strength of the signal. It has also been shown that sodium affects immune response both in **efficiency** and speed. Macrophages have increased proliferation rates at high-salt concentrations and the body uses high-sodium concentrations in isolated regions to generate an heightened immune response which...
61. ...cavitation allows for disruption of the blood brain barrier. Gene therapy using ultrasound and microbubbles is also being investigated for ocular disease. In cardiovascular disease, for example, the **efficiency** of gene therapy can be improved by "ultrasound targeted microbubble destruction" where a gene-loaded microbubble can be burst to release its contents. Research being done on sonophoresis is poorly st...
62. ...s action, but it attempts to maintain drug levels within the therapeutic window to avoid potentially hazardous peaks in drug concentration following ingestion or injection and to maximize therapeutic **efficiency**. In addition to pills, the mechanism can also apply to capsules and injectable drug carriers (that often have an additional release function), forms of controlled release medicines include gels, impl...
63. ...billion-dollar industry. PEGylation is the process of attaching the strands of the polymer PEG to molecules, most typically peptides, proteins, and antibody fragments, that can improve the safety and **efficiency** of many therapeutics. It produces alterations in the physiochemical properties including changes in conformation, electrostatic binding, hydrophobicity etc. These physical and chemical changes increa...
64. ...ons, and needs to be tightly controlled in many industrial products such as the manufacture of printer toner, cosmetics, and pharmaceutical products. Particle size distribution can greatly affect the **efficiency** of any collection device. Settling chambers will normally only collect very large particles, those that can be separated using sieve trays. Centrifugal collectors will normally collect particles down...
65. ...e. Settling chambers will normally only collect very large particles, those that can be separated using sieve trays. Centrifugal collectors will normally collect particles down to about 20 μm. Higher **efficiency** models can collect particles down to 10 μm. Fabric filters are one of the most efficient and cost effective types of dust collectors available and can achieve a collection efficiency of more than 99%...
66. ...ut 20 μm. Higher efficiency models can collect particles down to 10 μm. Fabric filters are one of the most efficient and cost effective types of dust collectors available and can achieve a collection **efficiency** of more than 99% for very fine particles. Wet scrubbers that use liquid are commonly known as wet scrubbers. In these systems, the scrubbing liquid (usually water) comes into contact with a gas strea...
67. ...these systems, the scrubbing liquid (usually water) comes into contact with a gas stream containing dust particles. The greater the contact of the gas and liquid streams, the higher the dust removal **efficiency**. Electrostatic precipitators use electrostatic forces to separate dust particles from exhaust gases. They can be very efficient at the collection of very fine particles. Filter Press used for filteri...
68. ...a variable and dynamic process. The amount of iron absorbed compared to the amount ingested is typically low, but may range from 5% to as much as 35% depending on circumstances and type of iron. The **efficiency** with which iron is absorbed varies depending on the source. Generally, the best-absorbed forms of iron come from animal products. Absorption of dietary iron in iron salt form (as in most supplements)...
69. ...ne prevent the buildup of gummy residues. Dispersants are used to prevent formation of biofouling or biofilms in industrial processes. It is also possible to disperse bacterial slime and increase the **efficiency** of biocides. Dispersants are used as plasticizers or superplasticizers in concrete formulations to lower the use of water while retaining the needed slump (flow) property. A lower water content makes...
70. ...mide group forms a unique polar interaction with the enzyme. As a result, rosuvastatin has superior binding affinity to the HMGR enzyme compared to the other statins, which is directly related to its **efficiency** to lower LDL cholesterol. Lipophilicity of the statins is considered to be quite important since the hepatoselectivity of the statins is related to their lipophilicity. The more lipophilic statins te...
71. ...ions where IP injections are not ideal, while others prove the advantageous uses if this delivery method. Overall, many studies utilize IP injections to deliver therapeutics to lab animals due to the **efficiency** of the administration route. ChemMedChem ChemMedChem is a biweekly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering medicinal chemistry. It is published by Wiley-VCH on behalf of Chemistry Europe. In additi...
72. ...es and compositions have been the primarily particles of interest until recently when also natural organic particles have gained increased attention. They are believed to have advantages such as cost-**efficiency** and degradability, and are issued from renewable resources.  Pickering emulsions find applications for enhanced oil recovery or water remediation. Certain Pickering emulsions remain stable even under...
73. ...armaceutical market as well as the increasing demand for outsourced services. The best-positioned service providers focus on a specific technology or dosage form and promote end-to-end continuity and **efficiency** for their outsourcing clients. With lower-cost international manufacturers capturing an increasing percentage of the contract manufacturing market, specialization may be an effective hedge against lo...
74. ...pharmacy call-backs related to illegibility, mistaken prescription choices, formulary and pharmacy benefits, decreasing the amount of time wasted on the phone. This ultimately impacts office workflow **efficiency** and overall productivity in a positive manner. Both prescribers and pharmacists can save time and resources spent on faxing prescriptions through a reduction in labor costs, handling costs, and paper...
75. ...-prescribing may help reduce the number of unfilled prescriptions and hence, increasing medication adherence. Allowing the renewal of medications through this electronic system also helps improve the **efficiency** of this process, reducing obstacles that may result in less patient compliance. Availability of information on when patient's prescriptions are filled can also help clinicians assess patient adherenc...
76. ...ring a drug recall, or the frequency and types of medication provided by certain health care providers. Although e-prescribing has the ability to streamline workflow process and increase the system's **efficiency**, challenges and limitations that may hinder the widespread adoption of e-prescribing practices include: The vast majority of community medical prescriptions in Australia continue to be delivered on p...
77. ...her light oil products were used to break down foam. Vegetable oils also found some use. Fatty alcohols (C7 – C22) were effective but expensive antifoams. They were added to oil products to boost the **efficiency**. Milk and cream were forebears for modern-day emulsion type defoamers. During the 1950s, experiments with silicone-based defoamers started. These were based on polydimethylsiloxane (silicone oil) dis...
78. ...ays an important role in natural system as well as in environmental engineering.  The attachment of biomass on the membrane surface will result in membrane fouling, which can significantly reduce the **efficiency** of the treatment system using membrane filtration process in wastewater treatment plants. The low adhesion of bacteria to soil is essential key for the success of in-situ bioremediation in groundwate...
79. ...and band gap. Such frequency-sensitive devices may be ideal for optical switching and frequency selective filters in the ultraviolet, visible, or infrared portions of the spectrum, as well as higher **efficiency** antennae at microwave and millimeter wave frequencies. Self-assembly is the most common term in use in the modern scientific community to describe the spontaneous aggregation of particles (atoms, mol...
80. ...op formulations may also turn from a liquid to a gel (so called in situ gelling systems) upon drug administration. For example, gel-forming solutions containing Pluronics could be used to improve the **efficiency** of eye drops and provide better retention on ocular surfaces. With a 0.1-0.7 mm thick mucus layer, the oral cavity serves as an important route of administration for mucoadhesive dosages. Permeation...

=== INTERRUPTION (8 occurrences) ===
1. ...declares three primary objectives: ENCOD is implementing these objectives in three ways: Drug holiday A drug holiday (sometimes also called a drug vacation, medication vacation, structured treatment **interruption**, tolerance break, treatment break or strategic treatment interruption) is when a patient stops taking a medication(s) for a period of time; anywhere from a few days to many months or even years if th...
2. ...ives in three ways: Drug holiday A drug holiday (sometimes also called a drug vacation, medication vacation, structured treatment interruption, tolerance break, treatment break or strategic treatment **interruption**) is when a patient stops taking a medication(s) for a period of time; anywhere from a few days to many months or even years if the doctor or medical provider feels it is best for the patient. It is r...
3. ...ll tend to selectively destroy those helper T-cells most capable of fighting the HIV infection off, effectively desensitizing the immune system to the infection. The purpose of a structured treatment **interruption** is to create a short interval in which the virus becomes common enough to stimulate reproduction of T-cells capable of fighting the virus. A 2006 HIV literature review noted that "two studies suggest...
4. ...on is that the ingested material may initiate a purging response of the gastrointestinal tract by rapidly inducing diarrhoea. This substantially decreases gut transit time, causing worm expulsion and **interruption** in the life cycle of parasites. This, or a similar, mechanism could explain undigested materials in the faeces of various animals such as birds, carnivores and primates. The topical application of ma...
5. ...arriers, leads to more patients discontinuing treatment before completion. A 2019 study of patients at two academic institutions in Boston, Massachusetts demonstrated differences in delayed starting, **interruption**, and early termination of isotretinoin treatment course across race. Non-white patients were more likely than white patients to experience medication interruptions and early terminations and were mor...
6. ...released TB-infected inmates in Fry et al.'s study, 73.8% did not report visiting a community dispensary for further treatment. Ruddy et al. cite release from facilities as one of the main causes of **interruption** in prisoner's TB treatment, in addition to non-compliance within the prison and upon reintegration into civilian life. Fry et al.'s study also listed side effects of TB treatment medications (especia...
7. ...nged between client and service provider. One of the major risk remains in the lack of control over the CDMO's compliance for the client, for example when an FDA warning letter is issued, a resulting **interruption** of production may result in major delay or interruption of shipping thus it is critical to properly vet the selected CDMO. The rise of the CDMO industry led to an increase of inspectors from various...
8. ...or risk remains in the lack of control over the CDMO's compliance for the client, for example when an FDA warning letter is issued, a resulting interruption of production may result in major delay or **interruption** of shipping thus it is critical to properly vet the selected CDMO. The rise of the CDMO industry led to an increase of inspectors from various divisions of the Food and Drug Administration (e.g.: Cen...

=== EVALUATION (120 occurrences) ===
1. ...in approximately of space, divided into ten offices and four laboratory buildings. The campus houses the Office of the Commissioner (OC), the Office of Regulatory Affairs (ORA),  the Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research (CDER), the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH), the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) and offices for the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM). With the...
2. ...of the Commissioner (OC), the Office of Regulatory Affairs (ORA),  the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER), the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH), the Center for Biologics **Evaluation** and Research (CBER) and offices for the Center for Veterinary Medicine (CVM). With the passing of the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017, the FDA projects a 64% increase in employees to 18,000 over the...
3. ...valuating the safety and labeling of their product. The FDA has a "Dietary Supplement Ingredient Advisory List" that includes ingredients that sometimes appear on dietary supplements but need further **evaluation**. An ingredient is added to this list when it is excluded from use in a dietary supplement, does not appear to be an approved food additive or recognized as safe, and/or is subjected to the requiremen...
4. ...ative" (MCMi), with programs funded by the federal government. It helps support "partner" agencies and organisations prepare for public health emergencies that could require MCMs. The Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research uses different requirements for the three main drug product types: new drugs, generic drugs, and over-the-counter drugs. A drug is considered "new" if it is made by a different manufactu...
5. ...are increasing. As a condition of approval, a sponsor may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, called Phase IV trials. In some cases, the FDA requires risk management plans called Risk **Evaluation** and Mitigation Strategies (REMS) for some drugs that require actions to be taken to ensure that the drug is used safely. For example, thalidomide can cause birth defects, but has uses that outweigh t...
6. ...ty and Inspection Service (FSIS) continued inspections of meatpacking plants, which resulted in 145 FSIS field employees who tested positive for COVID-19, and three who died. The Center for Biologics **Evaluation** and Research is the branch of the FDA responsible for ensuring the safety and efficacy of biological therapeutic agents. These include blood and blood products, vaccines, allergenics, cell and tissue...
7. ...7. Since the 1990s, many successful new drugs for the treatment of cancer, autoimmune diseases, and other conditions have been protein-based biotechnology drugs, regulated by the Center for Biologics **Evaluation** and Research. Many of these drugs are extremely expensive; for example, the anti-cancer drug Avastin costs $55,000 for a year of treatment, while the enzyme replacement therapy drug Cerezyme costs $2...
8. ...requires that all approved drugs fulfill two requirements: Gaining FDA approval usually takes several years. Testing done on animals must be extensive and must include several species to help in the **evaluation** of both the effectiveness and toxicity of the drug. The dosage of any drug approved for use is intended to fall within a range in which the drug produces a therapeutic effect or desired outcome. The...
9. ...r position occupied on the strings. After each coupling step, the capsules are redistributed among new strings according to definite rules. In the drug discovery process, the synthesis and biological **evaluation** of small molecules of interest have typically been a long and laborious process. Combinatorial chemistry has emerged in recent decades as an approach to quickly and efficiently synthesize large numbe...
10. ...ssical" papers in the field in 1999. Oftentimes, it is not possible to use expensive equipment, and Schwabacher, et al. describe a simple method of combining parallel synthesis of library members and **evaluation** of entire libraries of compounds. In their method, a thread that is partitioned into different regions is wrapped around a cylinder, where a different reagent is then coupled to each region which bea...
11. ...may be of some use in certain cases. Psychopharmacology Psychopharmacology (from Greek ; ; and ) is the scientific study of the effects drugs have on mood, sensation, thinking, behavior, judgment and **evaluation**, and memory. It is distinguished from neuropsychopharmacology, which emphasizes the correlation between drug-induced changes in the functioning of cells in the nervous system and changes in conscious...
12. ...er, although these substances have been used throughout history by various cultures, and have a profound effect on mentality and brain function, they have not always attained the degree of scrutinous **evaluation** that lab-made compounds have. Nevertheless, some, such as psilocybin and mescaline, have provided a basis of study for the compounds that are used and examined in the field today. Hunter-gatherer soc...
13. ...pregnancy tests are taken. Thalidomide causes birth defects. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory agencies have approved marketing of the drug only with an auditable risk **evaluation** and mitigation strategy that ensures that people using the drug are aware of the risks and avoid pregnancy; this applies to both men and women, as the drug can be transmitted in semen. There is a hig...
14. ...turers' product literature, medical and pharmaceutical literature, regulatory authorities and professional bodies. Advice is constructed from clinical literature, and reflects, as far as possible, an **evaluation** of the evidence from diverse sources. The BNF also takes account of authoritative national guidelines and emerging safety concerns. In addition, the Joint Formulary Committee takes advice on all ther...
15. ...does not exist, estimates are made by comparison to known similar toxic things, or to similar exposures in similar organisms. Then, "safety factors" are added to account for uncertainties in data and **evaluation** processes. For example, if a dose of a toxic substance is safe for a laboratory rat, one might assume that one-tenth that dose would be safe for a human, allowing a safety factor of 10 to allow for i...
16. ...n Wonderland derive from the known occupational toxicity of hatters who used a toxic chemical for controlling the shape of hats. Exposure to chemicals in the workplace environment may be required for **evaluation** by industrial hygiene professionals. Hazards in the arts have been an issue for artists for centuries, even though the toxicity of their tools, methods, and materials was not always adequately realiz...
17. ...al years. His certificate for election to the Royal Society called him "...the leader in the development in medicine of the precise experimental methods now used nationally and internationally in the **evaluation** of new therapeutic and prophylactic agents." International clinical trials day is celebrated on 20 May. The acronyms used in the titling of clinical trials are often contrived, and have been the subj...
18. ...plan for patient-specific problems, identifying goals of therapy, and reviewing all prescribed medications prior to dispensing and administration to the patient. The review process often involves an **evaluation** of the appropriateness of drug therapy (e.g., drug choice, dose, route, frequency, and duration of therapy) and its efficacy. Research shows that pharmacist led strategies reduce errors related to me...
19. ...rnetics (also known as pharma-cybernetics, cybernetic pharmacy, and cyber pharmacy) is an emerging field that describes the science of supporting drugs and medications use through the application and **evaluation** of informatics and internet technologies, so as to improve the pharmaceutical care of patients. The word "pharmacy" is derived from Old French "farmacie" "substance, such as a food or in the form of...
20. ...rice is too high. The following suggestions have been made: prioritize review of applications for essential drugs, i.e. move them up in the queue. If the FDA felt unable to make this largely economic **evaluation** about priority, the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation could do this. Second, the FDA could temporarily permit compounding. A...
21. ...up in the queue. If the FDA felt unable to make this largely economic evaluation about priority, the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and **Evaluation** could do this. Second, the FDA could temporarily permit compounding. And third, the FDA could "temporarily permit the importation of drug products reviewed/approved by competent regulatory authoritie...
22. ...y permit the importation of drug products reviewed/approved by competent regulatory authorities outside the United States". In a January 2016 senate hearing, the director of the FDA's Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research said that increasing numbers of generic drug applications had "overwhelmed the FDA staff and created unpredictability and delay for industry", but that the FDA is ahead of schedule in re...
23. ...as eculizumab, was not related to research, development and manufacturing costs. Their price is arbitrary and they have become more profitable than traditional medicines. By 2007 the use of economic **evaluation** methods regarding public-funding of orphan drugs, using estimates of the incremental cost-effectiveness, for example, became more established internationally. The QALY has often been used in cost-uti...
24. ...appraisal and prepares an assessment report. This can be commented on by the Consultees and Commentators. Comments are then taken into account and changes made to the assessment report to produce an **evaluation** report. An independent Appraisal Committee then looks at the evaluation report, hears spoken testimony from clinical experts, patient groups and carers. They take their testimony into account and dra...
25. ...y the Consultees and Commentators. Comments are then taken into account and changes made to the assessment report to produce an evaluation report. An independent Appraisal Committee then looks at the **evaluation** report, hears spoken testimony from clinical experts, patient groups and carers. They take their testimony into account and draw up a document known as the 'appraisal consultation document'. This is...
26. ...industry's various subdivisions include distinct areas, such as manufacturing biologics, which are all subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern the patenting, efficacy testing, safety **evaluation**, and marketing of these drugs. The global pharmaceuticals market produced treatments worth a total of $1,228.45 billion in 2020. The sector showed a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 1.8% in 2021...
27. ...ologics by the FDA, or 21 in total, which is down from 26 in 2009 and 24 in 2008. On the other hand, there were only 18 approvals in total in 2007 and 22 back in 2006. Since 2001, the Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research has averaged 22.9 approvals a year. This approval comes only after heavy investment in pre-clinical development and clinical trials, as well as a commitment to ongoing safety monitoring....
28. ...rb that was known in Chinese medicine to treat fever. However, it was found that its plant extracts had antimalarial activity, leading to the Nobel Prize winning discovery of artemisinin. Microscopic **evaluation** is essential for the initial identification of herbs, identifying small fragments of crude or powdered herbs, identifying adulterants (such as insects, animal feces, mold, fungi, etc.), and recognizi...
29. ...recognizing the plant by its characteristic tissue features. Techniques such as microscopic linear measurements, determination of leaf constants, and quantitative microscopy are also utilized in this **evaluation**. The determination of leaf constants includes stomatal number, stomatal index, vein islet number, vein termination number, and palisade ratio. The stomatal index is the percentage formed by the numbe...
30. ...of a TDM strategy should be confirmed through an evidence-based approach involving the performance of well-designed controlled clinical trials. In practice however, TDM has undergone formal clinical **evaluation** only for a limited number of drugs to date, and much of its development rests on empirical foundations. Point-of-care tests for an easy performance of TDM at the medical practice are under elaboratio...
31. ...factor. For example, for a drug that is the only available treatment for a severe illness, listing may be recommended on the basis of the "rule of rescue". The principles that are applied during the **evaluation** of drugs for PBS listing are described in the PBAC Guidelines. Drugs that have unrestricted benefit listing on the PBS are available for general use without being limited to particular indications. S...
32. ...s prior to experimental measurement is useful. For example, tens of thousands of industrially manufactured chemicals are in common use, but only a small fraction have undergone rigorous toxicological **evaluation**. Hence there is a need to prioritize the remainder for testing. QSAR equations, which in turn are based on calculated partition coefficients, can be used to provide toxicity estimates. Calculated par...
33. ...models have been used for risk management. QSARS are suggested by regulatory authorities; in the European Union, QSARs are suggested by the REACH regulation, where "REACH" abbreviates "Registration, **Evaluation**, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals". Regulatory application of QSAR methods includes "in silico" toxicological assessment of genotoxic impurities. Commonly used QSAR assessment software such...
34. ...es to provide preparations that are immiscible, miscible, or emulsifiable with skin secretions. They can also be derived from hydrocarbon (fatty), absorption, water-removable, or water-soluble bases. **Evaluation** of ointments: Properties which affect choice of an ointment base are: Methods of preparation of ointments: Paste combines three agents – oil, water, and powder. It is an ointment in which a powder is...
35. ...ulations also requires administration after an appropriate meal at a specified time before taking the drug, a so-called "fed" or "food-effect" study. A food-effect study requires the same statistical **evaluation** as the fasting study, described above. There were no requirements for bioequivalence in generic medications in China until the 2016 "Opinion on Conducting Consistent Evaluation of the Quality and Eff...
36. ...s the same statistical evaluation as the fasting study, described above. There were no requirements for bioequivalence in generic medications in China until the 2016 "Opinion on Conducting Consistent **Evaluation** of the Quality and Efficacy of Generic Drugs" (), which established basic rules for future bioequivalence work. Since July 2020, all newly-approved generics must pass bioequivalence checks; previous...
37. ...s C do not apply to the type of drug (e.g. if the drug is not absorbed orally), comparisons can be made using other means such as dose-response curves. According to Wei et al. (2022), the Consistency **Evaluation** Policy increased R&D spending for Chinese pharmaceutical companies, especially among private and high-yielding ones. Liu et al. (2023) argues that the Policy increased the innovation quality of the C...
38. ...ory process, from pre-marketing (clinical research phase 0 to phase 3) to post-marketing activities (pharmacovigilance or clinical research phase 4), and for safety information data entry, retrieval, **evaluation**, and presentation. Also, it is the adverse event classification dictionary.  The first version of MedDRA was released in 1999 in English and Japanese. MedDRA is now translated into Chinese, Czech, Du...
39. ...maintaining MedDRA, ICH endeavours to facilitate the exchange of clinical information through a single standardized international medical terminology that can be used for regulatory communication and **evaluation** of data pertaining to medicinal products for human use. As a result, MedDRA is designed for use in the registration, documentation, and safety monitoring of medicinal products through all phases of t...
40. ...y agencies in Europe, the US and Japan (ICH countries), as well as other countries around the world. The PSUR was updated in 2012 and is now referred to in many countries as the Periodic Benefit Risk **Evaluation** report (PBRER). As the title suggests, the PBRER's focus is on the benefit-risk profile of the drug, which includes a review of relevant safety data compiled for a drug product since its development....
41. ...activities within the area of risk management are that of the compilation of risk management plans (RMPs) and aggregate reports such as the Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR), Periodic Benefit-Risk **Evaluation** Report (PBRER), and the Development Safety Update Report (DSUR). One of the most important, and challenging, problems in pharmacovigilance is that of the determination of causality. Causality refers...
42. ..., running in some cases hundreds of pages and, in rare instances, up to a thousand pages long. In the US, under certain circumstances, the FDA may require a company to submit a document called a Risk **Evaluation** and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for a drug that has a specific risk that FDA believes requires mitigation. While not as comprehensive as a risk management plan, a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strate...
43. ...ocument called a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) for a drug that has a specific risk that FDA believes requires mitigation. While not as comprehensive as a risk management plan, a Risk **Evaluation** and Mitigation Strategy can require a sponsor to perform certain activities or to follow a protocol, referred to as Elements to Assure Safe Use, to assure that a positive risk-benefit profile for the...
44. ...re several reports of adverse reactions to a particular drug, this process may lead to the detection of a signal, and an alert about a possible hazard communicated to members countries after detailed **evaluation** and expert review on the biological stasis and homeostasis of the body. Clb12/2020001 The International Council for Harmonisation is a global organization with members from the European Union, the Un...
45. ...:2:3 parts of three herbs i.e Haritaki:Bibhitaki:Amlaki.. It contains vitamin C. European Medicines Agency The European Medicines Agency (EMA) is an agency of the European Union (EU) in charge of the **evaluation** and supervision of pharmaceutical products. Prior to 2004, it was known as the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products or European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA). The EMA was set...
46. ...opean Medicines Agency (EMA) is an agency of the European Union (EU) in charge of the evaluation and supervision of pharmaceutical products. Prior to 2004, it was known as the European Agency for the **Evaluation** of Medicinal Products or European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA). The EMA was set up in 1995, with funding from the European Union and the pharmaceutical industry, as well as indirect subsidy fro...
47. ...an Union (EU) in charge of the evaluation and supervision of pharmaceutical products. Prior to 2004, it was known as the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products or European Medicines **Evaluation** Agency (EMEA). The EMA was set up in 1995, with funding from the European Union and the pharmaceutical industry, as well as indirect subsidy from member states, its stated intention to harmonise (but...
48. ...decentralised scientific agency (as opposed to a regulatory authority) of the European Union (EU) and its main responsibility is the protection and promotion of public and animal health, through the **evaluation** and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary use. More specifically, it coordinates the evaluation and monitoring of centrally authorised products and national referrals, develops technical...
49. ...ain responsibility is the protection and promotion of public and animal health, through the evaluation and supervision of medicines for human and veterinary use. More specifically, it coordinates the **evaluation** and monitoring of centrally authorised products and national referrals, develops technical guidance and provides scientific advice to sponsors. Its scope of operations is medicinal products for human...
50. ...trics, advanced therapies and pharmacovigilance risk assessment) and a number of scientific working parties. The Secretariat is organised into five units: Directorate, Human Medicines Development and **Evaluation**, Patient Health Protection, Veterinary Medicines and Product Data Management, Information and Communications Technology and Administration. The Management Board provides administrative oversight to t...
51. ...s for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use and the International Pharmaceutical Regulators Programme (IPRP), and a partner of the Society for Immunotherapy of Cancer and Vaccine Confidence Project. A single **evaluation** is carried out through the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). If the Committee concludes that the quality, safety and efficacy of the medicinal product is sufficiently proven, it...
52. ...ency was located in London prior to the United Kingdom's vote for withdrawal from the European Union, relocating to Amsterdam in March 2019. Prior to 2004, it was known as the European Agency for the **Evaluation** of Medicinal Products or European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA). The EMA contributed to the Global Vaccine Action Plan developed by the Decade of Vaccines Collaboration, endorsed by the 194 Memb...
53. ...s vote for withdrawal from the European Union, relocating to Amsterdam in March 2019. Prior to 2004, it was known as the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products or European Medicines **Evaluation** Agency (EMEA). The EMA contributed to the Global Vaccine Action Plan developed by the Decade of Vaccines Collaboration, endorsed by the 194 Member States of the World Health Assembly in May 2012, and...
54. ...er, operated by the Food and Drug Administration. In Australia,adverse effect reporting is administered by the Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee (ADRAC), a subcommittee of the Australian Drug **Evaluation** Committee (ADEC). Reporting is voluntary, and ADRAC requests healthcare professionals to report all adverse reactions to its current drugs of interest, and serious adverse reactions to any drug. ADRA...
55. ...d for a specific disease or medical condition. Drug companies seeking to sell a drug in the United States must first test it. The company then sends the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research (CDER) evidence from these tests to prove the drug is safe and effective for its intended use. A fee is required to make such FDA submission. For financial year 2020, this fee was: for a...
56. ...conformations may be generated on-the-fly in the presence of the receptor binding cavity, or with full rotational flexibility of every dihedral angle using fragment based docking. Force field energy **evaluation** are most often used to select energetically reasonable conformations, but knowledge-based methods have also been used. Peptides are both highly flexible and relatively large-sized molecules, which ma...
57. ...ral benchmark data sets for docking and virtual screening exist e.g. "Astex Diverse Set" consisting of high quality protein−ligand X-ray crystal structures, the "Directory of Useful Decoys" (DUD) for **evaluation** of virtual screening performance, or the LEADS-FRAG data set for fragments An evaluation of docking programs for their potential to reproduce peptide binding modes can be assessed by "Lessons for Eff...
58. ...consisting of high quality protein−ligand X-ray crystal structures, the "Directory of Useful Decoys" (DUD) for evaluation of virtual screening performance, or the LEADS-FRAG data set for fragments An **evaluation** of docking programs for their potential to reproduce peptide binding modes can be assessed by "Lessons for Efficiency Assessment of Docking and Scoring" (LEADS-PEP). A binding interaction between a s...
59. ...ion (FDA). Clinical studies are most often conducted to support a PMA. Only a small percentage of 510(k)'s require clinical data to support the application. Investigational use also includes clinical **evaluation** of certain modifications or new intended uses of legally marketed devices. All clinical evaluations of investigational devices, unless exempt, must have an approved IDE before the study is initiated....
60. ...n modifications or new intended uses of legally marketed devices. All clinical evaluations of investigational devices, unless exempt, must have an approved IDE before the study is initiated. Clinical **evaluation** of devices that have not been cleared for marketing requires: An approved IDE permits a device to be shipped lawfully for the purpose of conducting investigations of the device without complying with...
61. ...s is now accepted. New procedures released for Medical Device Regulatory Services in Europe.https://www.freyrsolutions.com/medical-devices/medical-device-regulatory-services-in-europe Australian Drug **Evaluation** Committee The Australian Drug Evaluation Committee (ADEC) was a committee that provided independent scientific advice to the Australian Government regarding therapeutic drugs. The committee was origi...
62. ...d for Medical Device Regulatory Services in Europe.https://www.freyrsolutions.com/medical-devices/medical-device-regulatory-services-in-europe Australian Drug Evaluation Committee The Australian Drug **Evaluation** Committee (ADEC) was a committee that provided independent scientific advice to the Australian Government regarding therapeutic drugs. The committee was originally formed in 1963 and more recently au...
63. ...for possessing or dealing with a sub-standard therapeutic substance. The Thalidomide scandal of the early 1960s prompted a reconsideration of federal regulation of drugs. In 1963, the Australian Drug **Evaluation** Committee was formed to consider legislative reforms and expressed its "grave concern at the continuing lack of adequate statutory control over the importation of new therapeutic substances". The com...
64. ...fined as "all information in original records and certified copies of original records of clinical findings, observations, or other activities in a clinical trial necessary for the reconstruction and **evaluation** of the trial." The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) does not define the term "source document". CHNOPS CHNOPS and CHON are mnemonic acronyms for the most common elements in living organisms. "CHON"...
65. ...n process and its control. For example: In the United States, biologics are licensed through the biologics license application (BLA), then submitted to and regulated by the FDA's Center for Biologics **Evaluation** and Research (CBER) whereas drugs are regulated by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Approval may require several years of clinical trials, including trials with human volunteers. Even aft...
66. ...ed through the biologics license application (BLA), then submitted to and regulated by the FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) whereas drugs are regulated by the Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research. Approval may require several years of clinical trials, including trials with human volunteers. Even after the drug is released, it will still be monitored for performance and safety ris...
67. ...administration department, unnecessary competition between regions might occur. The number of drug companies under each administrative department is often wrongly recorded resulting in an inaccurate **evaluation** index of the regional economic development and governmental performance. Complex regulatory processes induce excessive exploitation of regional administrative power. Before the revision of Chinese Ph...
68. ...nd transferable across the NHS. The competency requirements for consultant pharmacists are drawn from the Advanced and Consultant Level Competency Framework designed by the Competency Development and **Evaluation** Group (CoDEG, see www.codeg.org) which is divided into six capability (competency) clusters. Postholders are required to demonstrate: and There is work is underway to make explicit links between the...
69. ...flows estimation. Candidates for a new drug to treat a disease might, theoretically, include from 5,000 to 10,000 chemical compounds. On average about 250 of these show sufficient promise for further **evaluation** using laboratory tests, mice and other test animals. Typically, about ten of these qualify for tests on humans. A study conducted by the Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development covering the 19...
70. ...iapine is weakly supported as of 2022. Comorbid psychiatric disorders commonly go undetected in the treatment of depression. If left untreated, the symptoms of these disorders can interfere with both **evaluation** and treatment.  Anxiety disorders are one of the most common disorder types associated with treatment-resistant depression. The two disorders commonly co-exist, and have some similar symptoms. Some s...
71. ...ts company specialising in the application of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and nanotechnology to drug delivery. pSivida obtained porous silicon technology from the British government Defence **Evaluation** and Research Agency (DERA, now QinetiQ). QinetiQ continues to be a strategic partner. In June 2004, pSivida acquired full ownership of pSiMedica. In April 2018, pSivida purchased eye products firm Ic...
72. ...ibe or dispense isotretinoin. Isotretinoin carries a high risk of causing severe birth defects if taken during pregnancy ("see Teratogenicity of isotretinoin") and the goals of the iPLEDGE REMS (risk **evaluation** and mitigation strategy) program are to prevent fetal exposure to isotretinoin and to inform prescribers, pharmacists, and patients about isotretinoin's serious risks and safe-use conditions. The iPL...
73. ...procedures are developed through the process of validation. This is to maintain and assure a higher degree of quality of food and drug products.  ""Process validation is defined as the collection and **evaluation** of data, from the process design stage through commercial production, which establishes scientific evidence that a process is capable of consistently delivering quality product. Process validation in...
74. ...nd procedure for manufacturing. Each step is required to be justified and monitored in order to provide a good quality food and drug product. The FDA emphasizes the product life cycle approach in its **evaluation** of manufacturer regulatory compliance as well. Lotion Lotion is a low-viscosity topical preparation intended for application to the skin. By contrast, creams and gels have higher viscosity, typically...
75. ...e based on the compartment model that uses linear regression to identify and analyze pharmacokinetics of tracers involving irreversible uptake, such as in the case of deoxyglucose. It is used for the **evaluation** of nuclear medicine imaging data after the injection of a radioopaque or radioactive tracer. The method is model-independent because it does not depend on any specific compartmental model configurati...
76. ...do create grooves in pills, the groove must be consistent for consumers to be able to use them effectively. Many manufacturers choose to not use grooves. The United States government Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research makes the following recommendations for manufacturers when scoring pills with grooves: In the U.S. "uniformity of dosage units" is defined by the United States Pharmacopeia (USP), which...
77. ...tration of multiple antimicrobial agents that are not known to show cross-resistance, so as to reduce the possibility of a resistant strain remaining inadequately treated by a single agent during the **evaluation** of drug response. Once a specific resistance profile has been isolated via clinical laboratory findings, treatment is often modified as indicated. Vancomycin has long been considered a drug of last r...
78. ...marketing authorization under 21 CFR Part 8144. The FDA assigns the primary review responsibility to the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH), but also consults with the Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research (CDER) for the drug component of the combination product. The second type of DES to be approved by the EMA and the FDA were paclitaxel-eluting stents (PES), which release another natural...
79. ...face that allows for direct application of an anti-restenotic drug.  there are over 20 different types of drug-eluting stents available, with differences in features and characteristics. The economic **evaluation** of DES has been a topic of extensive research. In 2007, the overall incremental cost-effectiveness ratio in Europe was €98,827 per quality-adjusted life-years gained. Avoiding one revascularization w...
80. ...The DMC will convene at predetermined intervals (depending on the type of study) to review unblinded results. The DMC has the power to recommend continuation or termination of the study based on the **evaluation** of these results. There are typically three reasons a DMC might recommend termination of the study: safety concerns, outstanding benefit, and futility. The primary mandate of the DMC is to protect pa...
81. ...fety. If adverse events of a particularly serious type are more common in the experimental arm compared to the control arm, then the DMC would have to strongly consider termination of the study. This **evaluation** has to be made in consideration of risk/benefit. In many cases, the experimental arm could cause serious adverse events (chemotherapy, for example), but the resulting improvement in survival outweigh...
82. ...tion. Systems biology models of cell function would permit prediction of why, where and how the cell responds to external changes, growth and disease. High-content screening technology allows for the **evaluation** of multiple biochemical and morphological parameters in intact biological systems. For cell-based approaches the utility of automated cell biology requires an examination of how automation and object...
83. ...pharmaceutical product. Pharmacoeconomic studies serve to guide optimal healthcare resource allocation, in a standardized and scientifically grounded manner. Pharmacoeconomics centers on the economic **evaluation** of pharmaceuticals, and can use cost-minimization analysis, cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis or cost-utility analysis. Quality-adjusted life years have become the dominant outcome o...
84. ...a cost-per-QALY analysis. Economic evaluations are carried out alongside randomized controlled trials and using methods of decision-analytic modeling. Pharmacoeconomics is a useful method of economic **evaluation** of various treatment options. As more expensive drugs are being developed and licensed it has become imperative especially in context of developing countries where resources are scarce to apply the p...
85. ...rried Maita Asche in 1940. EudraVigilance EudraVigilance (European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Pharmacovigilance) is the European data processing network and management system for reporting and **evaluation** of suspected adverse reactions to medicines which have been authorised or being studied in clinical trials in the European Economic Area (EEA). The European Medicines Agency (EMA) operates the system...
86. ...n (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 laying down Community procedures for the authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Agency for the **Evaluation** of Medicinal Products (5) and by Council Directive 88/182/EEC of 22 March 1988 amending Directive 83/189/EEC laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standar...
87. ...of drug discovery called lead optimization (LO). The drug discovery process generally follows the following path that includes a hit to lead stage: The hit to lead stage starts with confirmation and **evaluation** of the initial screening hits and is followed by synthesis of analogs (hit expansion). Typically the initial screening hits display binding affinities for their biological target in the micromolar (1...
88. ...specific, new medicines. From 1991 to 1998 Emer Cooke worked for the EFPIA. She became executive director of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), an agency of the European Union (EU) in charge of the **evaluation** and supervision of medicinal products, in November 2020. In a session of the Austrian Parliament member of parliament Gerald Hauser on 1 April 2021 publicly criticised a potential conflict of interes...
89. ...ork in Pharmaceuticals (European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Network), is an IT platform to facilitate the exchange of information between regulatory partners and industry during submission and **evaluation** of applications. The aim of EUDRANET is to provide appropriate secure services for inter-Administration data interchange and for exchanges between Administrations and industry. EUDRANET is based on t...
90. ...ulations required by an organization to take in manufacturing, documentation, procedures, or systems to rectify and eliminate recurring non-conformance. Non-conformance is identified after systematic **evaluation** and analysis of the root cause of the non-conformance. Non-conformance may be a market complaint or customer complaint or failure of machinery or a quality management system, or misinterpretation of...
91. ...nal Audit Office published an audit report examining how the state (the government, the Medical Products Agency, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Agency for Medical and Social **Evaluation**) handles the pharmaceutical industry's influence over state drug control and knowledge management. In its review, the National Audit Office sharply criticizes the Medical Products Agency for shortcom...
92. ...es outside the UK. The full list of conference locations is shown below: Prioritization Prioritization is the activity that arranges items or activities in order of urgency. In the context of medical **evaluation** it is the establishment of the importance or the urgency of actions that are necessary to preserve the welfare of client or patient. In the clinical context, establishing priorities aids in the ratio...
93. ...issue as is found in a Meckel's diverticulum with Meckel's Scans. Carbon inhalation aerosol labeled with technetium-99m (Technegas) is indicated for the visualization of pulmonary ventilation and the **evaluation** of pulmonary embolism. Merck family The Merck family is a German noble family of industrialists and bankers, known for establishing the world's oldest pharmaceutical company Merck, its American forme...
94. ...rage conditions minimize degradation, customers may use this service to validate that the material they sent to outsourcing partner originally was correct and pure. Subsequently the service allows re-**evaluation** of compounds that may have decomposed during long term storage. The purification services complement the analytical services by allowing cost effective, environmentally friendly recovery of partially...
95. ...on the Board of Directors of Clearford Industries and Gallium Software Inc. Oncology Drug Advisory Committee The Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee (ODAC) receives requests for technical and clinical **evaluation** of new drugs by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The committee, consisting of members from academic and clinical oncology biostatistics, the general public, and the pharmaceutical industr...
96. ...n body weight or kidney function) or apparently unpredictable (a reflection of the current lack of knowledge). The term "pharmacometrics" first appeared in literature in the preface of the 1964 book "**Evaluation** of Drug Activities: Pharmacometrics":The sub-title of the book is, as far as we are aware, a neologism, coined by one of us (A.L.B.), and the word is defined by the main title of the book, which coul...
97. ...oined by one of us (A.L.B.), and the word is defined by the main title of the book, which could have been even more explicitly, if more verbosely, expressed as "The Identification and the Comparative **Evaluation**, Qualitative and Quantitative, of Drug Activities". The term has an etymological precedent in the now widely accepted "Econometrics". We hope it will prove useful for distinguishing the kind of measu...
98. ...velopment of new drugs). This involves the approval of a product for sale in a jurisdiction. Typically a national agency such as the US Food and Drug Administration (specifically, the Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research, or CDER), the UK Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency or Health Canada or Ukrainian Drug Registration Agency is responsible for reviewing a product and approving it for s...
99. ...regulatory agency. Once a regulatory agency has determined the clinical benefit and safety of a product and pricing has been confirmed (if necessary), a drug manufacturer will typically submit it for **evaluation** by a payer of some sort. Payers may be private insurance plans, governments (through the provision of benefits plans to insured populations or specialized entities like Cancer Care Ontario, which fun...
100. ...tial application fee from drug manufacturers at the time a New Drug Application (NDA) or Biologics License Application (BLA) was submitted, with those funds designated for use only in Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research (CDER) or Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) drug approval activities. In order to continue collecting such fees, the FDA is required to meet certain performance benchma...
101. ...e a New Drug Application (NDA) or Biologics License Application (BLA) was submitted, with those funds designated for use only in Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) or Center for Biologics **Evaluation** and Research (CBER) drug approval activities. In order to continue collecting such fees, the FDA is required to meet certain performance benchmarks, primarily related to the speed of certain activiti...
102. ...fracture, presence of trichomes, and presence of ridges of crude drugs are studied under morphology. Aromatic odor of umbelliferous fruits and sweet taste of liquorice are the example of this type of **evaluation**. The study of form of a crude drug is "morphology", while description of the form is "morphography". However, shape and size of crude drugs as described in official books should only be considered as...
103. ...eans to identify it and to determine its quality and purity, the identity of a drug can be established by actual collection of the drug from a plant or animal that has been positively identified. The **evaluation** of drug involves a number of methods that may be classified as follows: The usage of crude drugs dates to prehistoric times. Traditional medicine often incorporates the gathering and preparation of m...
104. ...which the reference product is licensed and is intended to be used and for which licensure is sought for the biological product. The World Health Organization (WHO) published its "Guidelines for the **evaluation** of similar biotherapeutic products (SBPs)" in 2009. The purpose of this guideline is to provide an international norm for evaluating biosimilars. The EMA has granted marketing authorizations for more...
105. ...guidance documents the FDA held a public hearing on May 11, 2012. In 2018, the FDA released a Biosimilars Action Plan to implement regulations from the BPCI, including limiting the abuse of the Risk **Evaluation** and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) system for evergreening and transitioning insulin and human growth hormone to regulation as biologics rather than drugs. Vaccination policy <section begin=map/> <sectio...
106. ...afety and Health Act involving Biological Agents. Criteria for the recommendation include disease burden, efficacy and effectiveness, safety, feasibility of program implementation, cost-effectiveness **evaluation**, clinical trial results, and equity in access to the vaccine. In the event of vaccination-related injuries, federal states are responsible for monetary compensation. Germany's central government does...
107. ...has a national vaccine injury compensation program. Essentially, those who are ill or damaged by mandatory and recommended vaccinations may receive funding from the government as compensation. A 2010 **evaluation** of vaccine coverage, which covered the 2008 birth cohort, showed a slight decline in immunization insurance coverage rates of diphtheria, hepatitis B, polio, and tetanus after those specific vaccinat...
108. ...ve family history of gastrointestinal cancers, since their symptoms may reflect a more serious, underlying condition, and patients that present with so-called "alarm symptoms," which require a prompt **evaluation** by a diagnostician. The available PPIs labeled for OTC use varies by country. As of October 2015, in the United States, available OTC proton-pump inhibitors include omeprazole, lansoprazole, and esom...
109. ...ate well-to-well communication. Test material can be added to the overlying medium and both media and cells can be analyzed individually. Plating of hepatocytes with other organ-specific cells allows **evaluation** of drug metabolism and organotoxicity. The IdMOC system has numerous applications in drug development, such as the evaluation of drug metabolism and toxicity. It can simultaneously evaluate the toxic...
110. ...dividually. Plating of hepatocytes with other organ-specific cells allows evaluation of drug metabolism and organotoxicity. The IdMOC system has numerous applications in drug development, such as the **evaluation** of drug metabolism and toxicity. It can simultaneously evaluate the toxic potential of a drug on cells from multiple organs and evaluate drug stability, distribution, metabolite formation, and effica...
111. ...t drug therapy decisions. "The practice management system includes all of the resources required to bring the service to the patient. Physical space, the appointment system, documentation, reporting, **evaluation**, payment for the service, and much more are included in the management of a service." The ultimate goal of pharmaceutical care (optimize medicines use and improving health outcomes) exists in all pra...
112. ...rm ‘safety pharmacology’ in the published literature dates back to 1980. The term was certainly in common usage in the 1980s within the pharmaceutical industry to describe nonclinical pharmacological **evaluation** of unintended effects of candidate drugs for regulatory submissions. Back then, it was part of a wider ‘general pharmacology’ assessment, which addressed actions of a drug candidate beyond the therap...
113. ...for the benefit. Setting too low of a price could imply inferiority, that the drug is too "weak" for the market. There are many different pricing strategies and factors that go into the research and **evaluation** of a future drug's price with whole departments within US pharmaceutical companies like Pfizer devoted to cost analysis. This chart shows discrepancies in drug pricing in different countries. A study...
114. ...it is critical to properly vet the selected CDMO. The rise of the CDMO industry led to an increase of inspectors from various divisions of the Food and Drug Administration (e.g.: Center for Biologics **Evaluation** and Research or Center for Drug Evaluation and Research). LegitScript LegitScript is a Portland, Oregon-based internet and payments compliance company that provides services for merchant monitoring,...
115. ...CDMO. The rise of the CDMO industry led to an increase of inspectors from various divisions of the Food and Drug Administration (e.g.: Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research or Center for Drug **Evaluation** and Research). LegitScript LegitScript is a Portland, Oregon-based internet and payments compliance company that provides services for merchant monitoring, platform monitoring, and certification in h...
116. ...ated serine proteases DPP-8 and DPP-9. Also, it does not inhibit the CYP 450 enzymes nor block the hERG channel at concentration up to 30 μM. Based on this data, alogliptin was chosen for preclinical **evaluation**. In January 2007 alogliptin was undergoing the phase III clinical trial and in October 2008 it was being reviewed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Researchers at BI discovered that using a b...
117. ...torate requires water companies to report concentrations of 47 PFAS. Many PFASs are either not covered by European legislation or are excluded from registration obligations under the EU Registration, **Evaluation**, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) chemical regulation. Several PFASs have been detected in drinking water, municipal wastewater, and landfill leachates worldwide. In 2019, the Europ...
118. ...taminants for decades. Due to the evolving nature of PFAS regulations as new science becomes available, the RRD is evaluating the need for regular PFAS sampling at Superfund sites and is including an **evaluation** of PFAS sampling needs as part of a Baseline Environmental Assessment review. Earlier in 2018, the RRD purchased lab equipment that will allow the MDEQ Environmental Lab to conduct analyses of certai...
119. ...ities, such as a centralized waste treatment facility, to treat and dispose of the PFAS pool of compounds. The US-based Interstate Technology and Regulatory Council (ITRC) has undertaken an extensive **evaluation** of ex-situ and in-situ treatment technologies for PFAS-impacted liquid matrices. These technologies are divided into field-implemented technologies, limited application technologies, and developing t...
120. ...ithin the context of their physical similarities, with appropriate scaling, to elastic solids. Observations of the interparticle separation distance has shown a decrease on ordering. This led to a re-**evaluation** of Langmuir's beliefs about the existence of a long-range attractive component in the interparticle potential. Colloidal crystals have found application in optics as photonic crystals. Photonics is t...

=== NECK (21 occurrences) ===
1. ...agents present in the mouthwash. Sucralfate is a mucosal coating agent, composed of an aluminum salt of sulfated sucrose. It is not recommended for use in the prevention of oral mucositis in head and **neck** cancer patients receiving radiotherapy or chemoradiation, due to a lack of efficacy found in a well-designed, randomized controlled trial. Tetracycline is an antibiotic which may sometimes be used as...
2. ...raoh's enema maker. The god Thoth, according to Egyptian mythology, invented the enema. In parts of Africa the calabash gourd is used traditionally to administer enemas. On the Ivory Coast the narrow **neck** of the gourd filled with water is inserted the patient's rectum and the contents are then injected by means of an attendant's forcible oral inflation, or, alternatively, a patient may self-administer...
3. ...ox horn to administer enemas. Along the upper Congo River an enema apparatus is made by making a hole in one end of the gourd for filling it, and using a resin to attach a hollow cane to the gourd's **neck**. The cane is inserted into the anus of the patient who is in a posture that allows gravity to effect infusion of the fluid. The Olmec from their middle preclassic period (10th through 7th centuries B...
4. ...dental use. It is practically a bottomless flask. The latter is replaced by an elastomer plug that can slide in the body of the cartridge. This plug will be pushed by the plunger of the syringe. The **neck** is closed with a rubber cap. The dentist places the cartridge directly into a stainless steel syringe, with a double-pointed (single-use) needle. The tip placed on the cartridge side punctures the ca...
5. ...ents the first documented use of any kind of drug. It and other medical papyri describe Ancient Egyptian medical practices, such as using honey to treat infections and the legs of bee-eaters to treat **neck** pains. Ancient Babylonian medicine demonstrated the use of medication in the first half of the 2nd millennium BC. Medicinal creams and pills were employed as treatments. On the Indian subcontinent, t...
6. ...zziness and sedation, so they were tapered off ziprasidone and olanzapine, and transitioned to quetiapine. Trazodone was discontinued. The patient then experienced excessive sweating, tachycardia and **neck** pain, gained considerable weight and had hallucinations. Five months later, quetiapine was tapered and discontinued, with ziprasidone re-introduced into their treatment, due to the excessive weight g...
7. ...o specific muscles (such as those controlling the eyelid) to prevent muscle spasm. Also, the glycopeptide bleomycin is used for the treatment of several cancers including Hodgkin's lymphoma, head and **neck** cancer, and testicular cancer. Newer trends in the field include the metabolic profiling and isolation of natural products from novel bacterial species present in underexplored environments. Examples...
8. ...demand via nasal cannulas. Oxygen helmets are used in hyperbaric oxygen chambers for oxygen administration. They are transparent, lightweight plastic helmets with a seal that goes around the wearer's **neck** that looks like a space suit helmet. They offer a good visual field. Light weight plastic hoses provide oxygen to the helmet and remove exhaled gas to the outside of the chamber. Oxygen helmets are o...
9. ...oordination complex of platinum that is used as a chemotherapy medication used to treat a number of cancers. These include testicular cancer, ovarian cancer, cervical cancer, bladder cancer, head and **neck** cancer, esophageal cancer, lung cancer, mesothelioma, brain tumors and neuroblastoma. It is given by injection into a vein. Common side effects include bone marrow suppression, hearing problems inclu...
10. ...ment of solid and haematological malignancies. It is used to treat various types of cancers, including sarcomas, some carcinomas (e.g., small cell lung cancer, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and **neck** and ovarian cancer), lymphomas, bladder cancer, cervical cancer, and germ cell tumors. The introduction of cisplatin as a standard treatment for testicular cancer improved remission rates from 5-10%...
11. ...abis use and the development of testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs), particularly non-seminoma TGCTs. Another 2015 meta-analysis found no association between lifetime cannabis use and risk of head or **neck** cancer. Combustion products are not present when using a vaporizer, consuming THC in pill form, or consuming cannabis foods. There is concern that cannabis may contribute to cardiovascular disease, b...
12. ...contain pharmaceuticals and chemicals that must be protected from air and contaminants. They are hermetically sealed by melting the thin top with an open flame, and usually opened by snapping off the **neck**. The space above the chemical may be filled with an inert gas before sealing. The walls of glass ampoules are usually sufficiently strong to be brought into a glovebox without any difficulty. Glass a...
13. ...traviolet and other types of light, or be made with an opaque top and bottom (usually painted with opaque paint) and the rest of the ampoule wrapped in thick paper. Ampoules are opened by scoring the **neck** and snapping the top off. In the "one point cut" (OPC) ampoules a dot above the neck identifies the correct thumb placement that aligns the thumb with a pre-made micro-score in the ampoule. If proper...
14. ...painted with opaque paint) and the rest of the ampoule wrapped in thick paper. Ampoules are opened by scoring the neck and snapping the top off. In the "one point cut" (OPC) ampoules a dot above the **neck** identifies the correct thumb placement that aligns the thumb with a pre-made micro-score in the ampoule. If properly done, this last operation creates a clean break without any extra glass shards or...
15. ...arison above the mold is cut, or the filling needles are placed in the parison head without the parison being cut (rotary BFS type). Next, a filling mandrel with blowing air function is placed in the **neck** area that seals the container. Sterile compressed air is then introduced through the filling mandrel to inflate and form the container. In the BFS process for smaller ampoules the compressed air syst...
16. ...h Health Companies (Salix Pharmaceuticals) is supporting an investigator-initiated Phase 2 study of Relistor. The drug is intended for patients with resectable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and **neck**. In July 2023, 404 Media reported that Bausch Health had been hacked and 1.6 million registration numbers that are issued by the United States' Drug Enforcement Administration to healthcare providers...
17. ...ples of molecular targeted therapeutics targeting mutated oncogenes, include PLX27892 which targets mutant B-raf in melanoma. There are targeted therapies for lung cancer, colorectal cancer, head and **neck** cancer, breast cancer, multiple myeloma, lymphoma, prostate cancer, melanoma and other cancers. Biomarkers are usually required to aid the selection of patients who will likely respond to a given tar...
18. ...ingle dose vial is only used once whereas a multi-dose vial can be used more than once. The CDC sets specific guidelines on multi-dose vials. A vial can be tubular, or have a bottle-like shape with a **neck**. The volume defined by the neck is known as the headspace. The English word "vial" is derived from the Greek "phiale", meaning "a broad flat container". Comparable terms include the Latin "phiala", L...
19. ...e whereas a multi-dose vial can be used more than once. The CDC sets specific guidelines on multi-dose vials. A vial can be tubular, or have a bottle-like shape with a neck. The volume defined by the **neck** is known as the headspace. The English word "vial" is derived from the Greek "phiale", meaning "a broad flat container". Comparable terms include the Latin "phiala", Late Latin "fiola" and Middle Eng...
20. ...ate80 is also found in both the Oxford–AstraZeneca and Janssen COVID-19 vaccines. Aluminium adjuvants have caused motor neuron death in mice when injected directly onto the spine at the scruff of the **neck**, and oil–water suspensions have been reported to increase the risk of autoimmune disease in mice. Squalene has caused rheumatoid arthritis in rats already prone to arthritis. In cats, vaccine-associa...
21. ...f show globes with each glass manufacturer developing his own design. A U.S. patent was granted in 1869 to Henry Whitney of Cambridge, Massachusetts, for a show globe with a colored glass body with a **neck** and base of transparent uncolored glass. The purpose of this design was to eliminate the need to use colored liquids, which could leave a residue inside the bottle. Though oil could be used to illumi...

=== DIAGNOSIS (82 occurrences) ===
1. ...utbreaks globally. The WHO has released a priority fungal pathogen list, including pathogens with antifungal resistance. The identification of antifungal resistance is undermined by limited classical **diagnosis** of infection, where a culture is lacking, preventing susceptibility testing. National and international surveillance schemes for fungal disease and antifungal resistance are limited, hampering the un...
2. ...uch as biologics and pharmaceutical drugs that can protect from or treat the health effects of a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) attack. MCMs can also be used for prevention and **diagnosis** of symptoms associated with CBRN attacks or threats. The FDA runs a program called the "FDA Medical Countermeasures Initiative" (MCMi), with programs funded by the federal government. It helps suppor...
3. ...cal and research tool used in pre-clinical and clinical settings. It is used heavily in the imaging of tumors and the search for metastases within the field of clinical oncology, and for the clinical **diagnosis** of certain diffuse brain diseases such as those causing various types of dementias. PET is a valuable research tool to learn and enhance our knowledge of the normal human brain, heart function, and s...
4. ...tes (cancer metastasis). These FDG PET scans for detecting cancer metastasis are the most common in standard medical care (representing 90% of current scans). The same tracer may also be used for the **diagnosis** of types of dementia. Less often, other radioactive tracers, usually but not always labelled with fluorine-18 (F), are used to image the tissue concentration of different kinds of molecules of intere...
5. ...glucose uptake, such as the normal brain, liver, kidneys, and most cancers, which have a higher glucose uptake than most normal tissue due to the Warburg effect. As a result, FDG-PET can be used for **diagnosis**, staging, and monitoring treatment of cancers, particularly in Hodgkin lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and lung cancer. A 2020 review of research on the use of PET for Hodgkin lymphoma found evidence...
6. .... PET imaging with FDG takes advantage of the fact that the brain is normally a rapid user of glucose. Standard FDG PET of the brain measures regional glucose use and can be used in neuropathological **diagnosis**. Brain pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) greatly decrease brain metabolism of both glucose and oxygen in tandem. Therefore FDG PET of the brain may also be used to successfully differentia...
7. ....g. 6-FDOPA for the AADC enzyme). These agents permit the visualization of neuroreceptor pools in the context of a plurality of neuropsychiatric and neurologic illnesses. PET may also be used for the **diagnosis** of hippocampal sclerosis, which causes epilepsy. FDG, and the less common tracers flumazenil and MPPF have been explored for this purpose. If the sclerosis is unilateral (right hippocampus or left hi...
8. ...tracers flumazenil and MPPF have been explored for this purpose. If the sclerosis is unilateral (right hippocampus or left hippocampus), FDG uptake can be compared with the healthy side. Even if the **diagnosis** is difficult with MRI, it may be diagnosed with PET. The development of a number of novel probes for non-invasive, "in-vivo" PET imaging of neuroaggregate in human brain has brought amyloid imaging c...
9. ...iB) developed at the University of Pittsburgh. These probes permit the visualization of amyloid plaques in the brains of Alzheimer's patients and could assist clinicians in making a positive clinical **diagnosis** of AD pre-mortem and aid in the development of novel anti-amyloid therapies. [C]polymethylpentene (PMP) is a novel radiopharmaceutical used in PET imaging to determine the activity of the acetylcholi...
10. ...to detect patients at risk of stroke is also feasible. Also, it can help test the efficacy of novel anti-atherosclerosis therapies. Imaging infections with molecular imaging technologies can improve **diagnosis** and treatment follow-up. Clinically, PET has been widely used to image bacterial infections using FDG to identify the infection-associated inflammatory response. Three different PET contrast agents h...
11. ...photomultipliers. In 2018 the UC Davis School of Veterinary Medicine became the first veterinary center to employ a small clinical PET scanner as a scanner for clinical (rather than research) animal **diagnosis**. Because of cost as well as the marginal utility of detecting cancer metastases in companion animals (the primary use of this modality), veterinary PET scanning is expected to be rarely available in...
12. ...caine. It occurs in about 15% of SSRI overdoses. It is a predictable consequence of excess serotonin on the central nervous system. Onset of symptoms is typically within a day of the extra serotonin. **Diagnosis** is based on a person's symptoms and history of medication use. Other conditions that can produce similar symptoms such as neuroleptic malignant syndrome, malignant hyperthermia, anticholinergic toxic...
13. ...produce similar symptoms such as neuroleptic malignant syndrome, malignant hyperthermia, anticholinergic toxicity, heat stroke, and meningitis should be ruled out. No laboratory tests can confirm the **diagnosis**. Initial treatment consists of discontinuing medications which may be contributing. In those who are agitated, benzodiazepines may be used. If this is not sufficient, a serotonin antagonist such as c...
14. ...e elevations in serotonin levels. Some experts prefer the terms serotonin toxicity or serotonin toxidrome, to more accurately reflect that it is a form of poisoning. There is no specific test for SS. **Diagnosis** is by symptom observation and investigation of the person's history. Several criteria have been proposed. The first evaluated criteria were introduced in 1991 by Harvey Sternbach. Researchers later d...
15. ...y Sternbach. Researchers later developed the Hunter Toxicity Criteria Decision Rules, which have better sensitivity and specificity, 84% and 97%, respectively, when compared with the gold standard of **diagnosis** by a medical toxicologist. As of 2007, Sternbach's criteria were still the most commonly used. The most important symptoms for diagnosing SS are tremor, extreme aggressiveness, akathisia, or clonus (...
16. ...e mucosa of the mouth, the size and reactivity of the pupils, the intensity of bowel sounds, skin color, and the presence or absence of sweating. The patient's history also plays an important role in **diagnosis**, investigations should include inquiries about the use of prescription and over-the-counter drugs, illicit substances, and dietary supplements, as all these agents have been implicated in the develop...
17. ...opamine receptor blockade (NMS) has a slow onset, typically evolves over several days after administration of a neuroleptic drug, and responds to dopamine agonists such as bromocriptine. Differential **diagnosis** may become difficult in patients recently exposed to both serotonergic and neuroleptic drugs. Bradykinesia and extrapyramidal "lead pipe" rigidity are classically present in NMS, whereas SS causes hy...
18. ...to ongoing features. Following appropriate medical management, SS is generally associated with a favorable prognosis. Epidemiological studies of SS are difficult as many physicians are unaware of the **diagnosis** or they may miss the syndrome due to its variable manifestations. In 1998 a survey conducted in England found that 85% of the general practitioners that had prescribed the antidepressant nefazodone w...
19. ...–brain barrier functions to hinder the delivery of many potentially important diagnostic and therapeutic agents to the brain. Therapeutic molecules and antibodies that might otherwise be effective in **diagnosis** and therapy do not cross the BBB in adequate amounts to be clinically effective. To overcome this problem some peptides able to naturally cross the BBB have been widely investigated as a drug deliver...
20. ...–50 parts per billion). Other routes of exposure include toxic waste sites and pseudo-medicine. Most cases of poisoning are accidental. Arsenic acts by changing the functioning of around 200 enzymes. **Diagnosis** is by testing the urine, blood, or hair. Prevention is by using water that does not contain high levels of arsenic. This may be achieved by the use of special filters or using rainwater. There is not...
21. ...ce to show cause and effect between arsenic and the onset of diabetes mellitus Type 2. Arsenic may be measured in blood or urine to monitor excessive environmental or occupational exposure, confirm a **diagnosis** of poisoning in hospitalized victims or to assist in the forensic investigation in a case of fatal over dosage. Some analytical techniques are capable of distinguishing organic from inorganic forms o...
22. ...as chlorpromazine and the drug reserpine. In 1970, sales began to decline for Valium and Librium, but sales of new and improved tranquilizers, such as Xanax, introduced in 1981 for the newly created **diagnosis** of panic disorder, soared. Mevacor (lovastatin) is the first and most influential statin in the American market. The 1991 launch of Pravachol (pravastatin), the second available in the United States,...
23. ...gement), pharmaceutics, pharmacy law, pathophysiology, physiology, anatomy, drug delivery, pharmaceutical care, nephrology, hepatology, and compounding of medications. Additional curriculum may cover **diagnosis** with emphasis on laboratory tests, disease state management, therapeutics and prescribing (selecting the most appropriate medication for a given patient). Upon graduation, pharmacists are licensed, e...
24. ...unity."  According to the International Agency for Research on Cancer, beryllium and beryllium compounds are Category 1 carcinogens; they are carcinogenic to both animals and humans. The differential **diagnosis** for berylliosis includes: Diagnosis of berylliosis is based on history of beryllium exposures, documented beryllium sensitivity, and granulomatous inflammation on lung biopsy. Given the invasive natu...
25. ...nal Agency for Research on Cancer, beryllium and beryllium compounds are Category 1 carcinogens; they are carcinogenic to both animals and humans. The differential diagnosis for berylliosis includes: **Diagnosis** of berylliosis is based on history of beryllium exposures, documented beryllium sensitivity, and granulomatous inflammation on lung biopsy. Given the invasive nature of a lung biopsy, diagnosis can a...
26. ...udes: Diagnosis of berylliosis is based on history of beryllium exposures, documented beryllium sensitivity, and granulomatous inflammation on lung biopsy. Given the invasive nature of a lung biopsy, **diagnosis** can also be based on clinical history consistent with berylliosis, abnormal chest x-ray or CT scan findings, and abnormalities in pulmonary function tests. The radiologic and pathologic features of b...
27. ...nt of Kansas City that would agree to not move the team (if eight years passed, a non-resident could buy the team, but the money if the sale would be distributed to charities). In May, he announced a **diagnosis** of cancer and was soon inducted into the team Hall of Fame. Despite his protests, Jackson County decided to name Royals Stadium in his honor, doing so on July 2. David Glass, who became the interim C...
28. ...ons by the Israeli Holocaust memorial, Yad Vashem. Nuclear medicine Nuclear medicine (nuclear radiology, nucleology), is a medical specialty involving the application of radioactive substances in the **diagnosis** and treatment of disease. Nuclear imaging is, in a sense, "radiology done inside out", because it records radiation emitted from within the body rather than radiation that is transmitted through the...
29. ...nto account the particular circumstances of the patient in question, where appropriate. For instance, if a patient is unlikely to be able to tolerate a sufficient amount of the procedure to achieve a **diagnosis**, then it would be inappropriate to proceed with injecting the patient with the radioactive tracer. When the benefit does justify the procedure, then the radiation exposure (the amount of radiation gi...
30. ...diation exposure (the amount of radiation given to the patient) should also be kept "ALARP". This means that the images produced in nuclear medicine should never be better than required for confident **diagnosis**. Giving larger radiation exposures can reduce the noise in an image and make it more photographically appealing, but if the clinical question can be answered without this level of detail, then this i...
31. ...in 1974, the American Osteopathic Board of Nuclear Medicine was established, cementing nuclear medicine as a stand-alone medical specialty. In the 1980s, radiopharmaceuticals were designed for use in **diagnosis** of heart disease. The development of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), around the same time, led to three-dimensional reconstruction of the heart and establishment of the field of n...
32. ...w years, which also was facilitated by establishing 18F-labelled tracers for standard procedures, allowing work at non-cyclotron-equipped sites. PET/CT imaging is now an integral part of oncology for **diagnosis**, staging and treatment monitoring. A fully integrated MRI/PET scanner is on the market from early 2011. Tc is normally supplied to hospitals through a radionuclide generator containing the parent rad...
33. ...profit motive to attract corporate research budgets and personnel. According to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), an orphan drug is defined as one "intended for the treatment, prevention or **diagnosis** of a rare disease or condition, which is one that affects less than 200,000 persons in the US" (which equates to approximately 6 cases per 10,000 population) "or meets cost recovery provisions of the...
34. ...ly 6 cases per 10,000 population) "or meets cost recovery provisions of the act".  In the European Union (EU), the European Medicines Agency (EMA) defines a drug as "orphan" if it is intended for the **diagnosis**, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically and seriously debilitating condition affecting not more than 5 in 10,000 EU people. EMA also qualifies a drug as orphan if – without ince...
35. ...at they are frequently mass-produced by large companies, in China, the United States, and elsewhere. 3. Custom-Made Formulas - these formulas are composed by a TCM Practitioner, to match the specific **diagnosis** and medical condition of a patient. These formulas are often partially-based on the older, classic formulas. The prescription of TCM formulas, is based on 4-tier system of hierarchy. The 4-tiers are:...
36. ...herbalism companies for illegally marketing products under "conditions that cause them to be drugs under section 201(g)(1) of the Act [21 U.S.C. § 321(g)(1)], because they are intended for use in the **diagnosis**, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease and/or intended to affect the structure or any function of the body" when no such evidence existed. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the FDA and U....
37. ...n cases of poisoning. Moreover, accidental overdose of ipecac can result when administered in the home. When dealing with poisoning cases in the hospital, it became difficult to obtain a differential **diagnosis** when syrup of ipecac had been administered, as this can add further symptoms. A 2005 review by a Health Resources and Services Administration-funded scientific panel concluded that vomiting alone doe...
38. ...syrup were rare, and patients should be treated by more effective and safer means. Additionally, its potential side effects, such as lethargy, can be confused with the poison's effects, complicating **diagnosis**. The use of ipecac may also delay the use of other treatments (e.g., activated charcoal, whole bowel irrigation, or oral antidotes) or make them less effective. Ipecac has been used by people with bu...
39. ...idence of diseases for which antibiotics were effective and only a 20% drop in those for which antibiotics were not effective. The report concluded that "it appears that the use of antibiotics, early **diagnosis**, and other factors have limited the epidemic spread and thus the number of these diseases which have occurred". The study further examined mortality rates for eight common diseases for which antibiot...
40. ...ependency and/or addiction and also have side effects arising from long-term use. People with post-traumatic stress disorder have been known to self-medicate, as well as many individuals without this **diagnosis** who have experienced psychological trauma. Due to the different effects of the different classes of drugs, the SMH postulates that the appeal of a specific class of drugs differs from person to perso...
41. ...which is common among trans people. Prescription-only lifestyle drugs such as those to treat erectile dysfunction, male pattern baldness, and obesity are often purchased online by people who have no **diagnosis** or prescription. In 2017, the United Kingdom legalized the sale of sildenafil (Viagra) over the counter in part to cut down on the number of men buying it online from unlicensed pharmacies. Self-mana...
42. ...s, such as the Global Initiative for Asthma Guidelines [GINA], the British Guidelines on the management of Asthma, The Canadian Pediatric Asthma Consensus Guidelines, and United States Guidelines for **Diagnosis** and Treatment of Asthma each recommend metered dose inhalers in place of nebulizer-delivered therapies. The European Respiratory Society acknowledge that although nebulizers are used in hospitals and...
43. ...ditions eligible for an authority the patient is suffering from. Medicare normally accepts the doctor's assertion that the condition exists as sufficient. For a written Authority however, evidence of **diagnosis** and patient eligibility criteria such a pathology test results are usually required. Some drugs may have Authority Required (Streamlined) status which does not require an explicit approval from Medic...
44. ...der resulting in psychogenic death. Rubel in 1964 spoke of "culture-bound" syndromes, those "from which members of a particular group claim to suffer and for which their culture provides an etiology, **diagnosis**, preventive measures, and regimens of healing". Certain anthropologists, such as Robert Hahn and Arthur Kleinman, have extended the placebo/nocebo distinction into this realm to allow a distinction t...
45. ...that may not communicate. Whether or not the advantages of polypharmacy (over taking single medications or monotherapy) outweigh the disadvantages or risks depends upon the particular combination and **diagnosis** involved in any given case. The use of multiple drugs, even in fairly straightforward illnesses, is not an indicator of poor treatment and is not necessarily overmedication. Moreover, it is well acce...
46. ...and Substances Act specifies additional regulatory requirements for controlled drugs and drug precursors. In Ontario, the Drug and Pharmacies Regulation Act governs "any substance that is used in the **diagnosis**, treatment, mitigation or prevention of a disease...in humans, animals or fowl." The regulation of drugs in China is governed by the National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) which replaced the...
47. ...ction of the constitutional units. Most commonly, the acid groups are , , or . Active ingredient An active ingredient is any ingredient that provides biologically active or other direct effect in the **diagnosis**, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease or to affect the structure or any function of the body of humans or animals. The similar terms active pharmaceutical ingredient (abbreviated as...
48. ...ch are defined as any response to a drug which is noxious and unintended, including lack of efficacy (the condition that this definition only applies with the doses normally used for the prophylaxis, **diagnosis** or therapy of disease, or for the modification of physiological disorder function was excluded with the latest amendment of the applicable legislation). Medication errors such as overdose, and misuse...
49. ...to the CHMP as described above. The Committee on Orphan Medicinal Products (COMP) administers the granting of orphan drug status since 2000. Companies intending to develop medicinal products for the **diagnosis**, prevention or treatment of life-threatening or very serious conditions that affect not more than five in 10,000 persons in the European Union can apply for 'orphan medicinal product designation'. Th...
50. ...ssure, which can cause strokes, and low blood pressure leading to people fainting. Side effects of popper abuse include tachycardia, headaches, migraines, dizziness and fainting. The "Merck Manual of **Diagnosis** and Therapy" reports insignificant hazard associated with inhalation of alkyl nitrites, and British governmental guidance on the relative harmfulness of alkyl nitrites places them among the less harm...
51. ...e been discontinued, rendered obsolete, or integrated into commercial products. Electronic medical records (EMRs) and electronic health records (EHRs) are collected by clinical staff in the course of **diagnosis** and treatment. Though these records generally include structured components with predictable formats and data types, the remainder of the reports are often free-text and difficult to search, leading...
52. ...[F]FDG had a profound influence on research in the neurosciences. The subsequent discovery in 1980 that [F]FDG accumulates in tumors underpins the evolution of PET as a major clinical tool in cancer **diagnosis**. [F]FDG is now the standard radiotracer used for PET neuroimaging and cancer patient management. The images can be assessed by a nuclear medicine physician or radiologist to provide diagnoses of vari...
53. ...mours). Phosphorylated [F]FDG cannot be further metabolised and is thus retained by tissues with high metabolic activity, such as most types of malignant tumours. As a result, FDG-PET can be used for **diagnosis**, staging, and monitoring treatment of cancers, particularly in Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, breast cancer, melanoma, and lung cancer. It has also been approved for use...
54. ...of NAC therapy. While it may shrink tumors in some patients, others may not respond to the treatment at all. It has been demonstrated that a delay in surgery of greater than 12 weeks from the time of **diagnosis** can decrease OS. Thus, the timing for NAC becomes critical, as a course of NAC therapy could delay a RC and allow the tumor to grow and further metastasize. Micometastases cannot be ruled out in loca...
55. ...e started, patients seldom follow treatment regimens as directed, and seldom complete the course of treatment. In respect of hypertension, 50% of patients completely drop out of care within a year of **diagnosis**. Persistence with first-line single antihypertensive drugs is extremely low during the first year of treatment. As far as lipid-lowering treatment is concerned, only one third of patients are complia...
56. ...ayed gratification) may also present severe consequences for adherence as diabetes medication often requires systematic, routine administration. As a result of poor compliance, 75% of patients with a **diagnosis** of hypertension do not achieve optimum blood-pressure control. A 2003 review found that 41–59% of patients prescribed antipsychotics took the medication prescribed to them infrequently or not at all....
57. ...mes as well as influence the placebo effect. Further, the way an individual expresses and reacts to the symptoms of psychiatric illness, and the cultural expectations of the physician, may affect the **diagnosis** a patient receives. For example, bipolar disorder often is misdiagnosed as schizophrenia in people of color. The differential response of many ethnic minorities to certain psychiatric medications rai...
58. ...tis externa typically improve within 48 hours of initiating antibiotics. If pain does not improve within 48 to 72 hours of antibiotic therapy, individuals should consult their provider to confirm the **diagnosis**. Common antibiotic ear drops for treating otitis externa include: Bacterial ear infections are treated with antibiotics; local administration is preferred over systemic delivery due to increased anti...
59. ...nd women who use heroin report engaging in high-risk sexual practices. Subjects typically report having several sexual partners, using condoms seldom or not at all, and having a high frequency of STI **diagnosis**. While small doses of heroin may enhance sexual desire and performance, chronic opiate use, including methadone and buprenorphine, synthetic and semi-synthetic opiates prescribed for opiate addiction...
60. ...1% of the population by age 20 and 3% of the population by age 75. The prevalence of epilepsy in Maharashtra is estimated to be 1 million people. Epilepsy Foundation of India has been providing free **diagnosis** and treatment to people living with epilepsy across rural Maharashtra since 2011. Since 2018, they have been using MedEngage services to collect PROs from thousands of patients across the state. Pati...
61. ...ey reasons for taking drugs before and during sex was to boost sexual confidence and reduce feelings of self-doubt, regarding feelings of "internalised homophobia" from society, concerns about an HIV **diagnosis**, or "guilt related to having or desiring gay sex". A key self-confidence issue for study participants was "body image", a concern that was heightened by the focus on social networking apps on appeara...
62. ...combination formulations are often used with other substances, which complicates treatment for these types of overdoses. Furthermore, the easy access to information online can sometimes lead to self-**diagnosis** and self-medication, contributing to the potential for misuse and overuse.  Overuse of acetaminophen is the leading cause of liver failure in the Western world. The maximum daily limit of acetaminoph...
63. ...us, in opposition to it, they continue to use their own culturally appropriate healthcare practices. In Curanderismo, Santería, and Espiritismo, the practitioners assess the patient and, depending on **diagnosis**, prepares a healing remedy or a variety of healing remedies. This may contain any combination of medicinal herbs, religious amulets, and/or other products used for the prevention, treatment, or palli...
64. ...ients for over 40 years, and is the most studied drug prescribed for the disorder." The American Psychiatric Association stated, "the allegation that it had conspired with Novartis to create the ADHD **diagnosis** was "ludicrous and totally false," and said there existed "a mountain of scientific evidence to refute these meritless allegations." The first suit to be dismissed occurred in California in 2001. U.S...
65. ...but currently in the United States, most insurance companies require separate authorization for SPECT imaging. Myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) is a form of functional cardiac imaging, used for the **diagnosis** of ischemic heart disease. The underlying principle is, under conditions of stress, diseased myocardium receives less blood flow than normal myocardium. MPI is one of several types of cardiac stress...
66. ...and Cinchona. A crude drug is any naturally occurring, unrefined substance derived from organic or inorganic sources such as plant, animal, bacteria, organs or whole organisms intended for use in the **diagnosis**, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in humans or other animals. Crude drugs are unrefined natural medications in their raw forms. Prior to the 1950s, every pharmacy student learned...
67. ...sion after pressure from cancer advocacy organizations, and Josh received the drug that saved his life. Hardy later passed away in September 2016 due to complications related to his underlying cancer **diagnosis**. In 2016 Kids v Cancer, a pediatric cancer advocacy organization, launched the Compassionate Use Navigator to assist physicians and guide families about the application process. Since then, FDA simpl...
68. ...acy, pharmacotherapy, pharmaceutical sciences, chemistry, pharmaceutical chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, molecular biology, genetics, cytology, medicine, veterinary medicine, zoology, **diagnosis**, medical prescription, pharmacy law, medical sociology, patient safety, health care, psychology, psychiatry, pedagogy, communication, information technology (IT), bioethics, medical ethics, safety, l...
69. ...in TB strains threaten to complicate the current global public health approaches to TB control. New drugs are being developed to treat extensively resistant forms but major improvements in detection, **diagnosis**, and treatment will be needed. There have been reports of totally drug-resistant tuberculosis, but such strains of TB are not recognized by the WHO. There are several ways that drug resistance to TB,...
70. ...cancer among all cancer deaths in men increased from 1.5% in 1920 to 19.7% in 1947. Nevertheless, these increases were questioned as potentially caused by increased reporting and improved methods of **diagnosis**. Although several carcinogens were already known at the time (for example, benzo[a]pyrene was isolated from coal tar and demonstrated to be a potent carcinogen in 1933), none were known to be contain...
71. ...but did not rule on the claim itself. The appeal on this case has been dismissed. Therapy A therapy or medical treatment is the attempted remediation of a health problem, usually following a medical **diagnosis**. Both words, "treatment" and "therapy", are often abbreviated tx, Tx, or T. As a rule, each therapy has indications and contraindications. There are many different types of therapy. Not all therapies...
72. ...IP injection were the disappearance of the ascites associated with the rupture. This case is a good example of how IP injections can be used to deliver a drug that can help to treat or cure a medical **diagnosis** over the use of other routes of delivery. The results set a precedent of how other drugs may be delivered in this way to treat other similar medical issues after further research. In 2018, a patient...
73. ...arly concoction search also scavengers for potions, candles, oil, and amulets. A plethora of medicinal plants are used in the Cebuano region and as mentioned above, depend on the mananambal and their **diagnosis** of the illness. Common plants used by mananambals are "Mangagaw" (Euphoria hirta) for dengue fever, "Dapdap" (Erythrina variegata) for hemorrhoids, "Tuba-Tuba"(Jatropha curcas) for arthritis, "Noog-n...
74. ...dication needed. When overuse of alcohol is suspected but drinking history is unclear, testing for elevated values of carbohydrate-deficient transferrin or gammaglutamyl transferase can help make the **diagnosis** of alcohol overuse and dependence more clear. The CIWA has also been shortened (now called the CIWA-Ar), while retaining its validity and reliability, to help assess patients more efficiently due to...
75. ...morphine, insulin, warfarin and spironolactone. Drug eruptions are diagnosed mainly from the medical history and clinical examination. However, they can mimic various other conditions, thus delaying **diagnosis** (for example, in drug-induced lupus erythematosus, or the acne-like rash caused by erlotinib). A skin biopsy, blood tests or immunological tests can also be useful. Drug reactions have characteristic...
76. ...ssociated with the presence of the HLA-B*5701 allele in European and African population in the United States and Australians. AGEP is often caused by antimicrobial, anti-fungal or antimalarial drugs. **Diagnosis** is often carried out by patch testing. This testing should be performed within one month after resolution of the rash and patch test results are interpreted at different time points: 48 hours, 72hour...
77. ...s can create the risk of being dependent on multiple substances. A 1985 study conducted by Khantzian and Treece found that 65% of their opioid-dependent sample met criteria for a personality disorder **diagnosis**. In the same study, 93% of the sample had a comorbid disorder, implying that the comorbid disorder plays some role in the addiction. It has also been shown that depression and polysubstance dependenc...
78. ...ctions. It is important that those who have a former eating disorder be taught how to eat healthfully, so they don't continuously switch from one addiction back to another. According to the DSM-IV, a **diagnosis** of polysubstance dependence must include a person who has used at least three different substances (not including caffeine or nicotine) indiscriminately, but does not have a preference to any specifi...
79. ...endence,) not polysubstance dependence. In addition to using three different substances without a preference to one, there has to be a certain level of dysfunction in a person's life to qualify for a **diagnosis** of polysubstance dependence. One of the bigger challenges that often occurs when trying to diagnose is the fact that people don't always report what they are taking because they are afraid of getting...
80. ...gnose is the fact that people don't always report what they are taking because they are afraid of getting into legal trouble. When coding polysubstance Dependence in a DSM-IV it would be a multiaxial **diagnosis** 304.80- Polysubstance Dependence", next to the classification, it is accompanied by a list of other types of Substance dependence (e.g. "305.00 Alcohol Abuse" or "305.60 Cocaine Abuse"). The DSM-IV r...
81. ...nd maybe prone to eating disorders, such as Bulimia nervosa. Whereas restricting anorexia, in particular, tends to reflect low reward dependence. Reward dependence is not consistently associated with **diagnosis** but can also significantly affect treatment issues, such as Therapeutic alliance. Persistence in completing weight-loss programs were related to high RD scores during pre-treatment. This demonstrates...
82. ...duced by long-term benzodiazepine use gradually improved significantly over a period of a year following completion of a slow withdrawal. Three of the 50 patients had wrongly been given a preliminary **diagnosis** of multiple sclerosis when the symptoms were actually due to chronic benzodiazepine use. Ten of the patients had taken drug overdoses whilst on benzodiazepines, despite the fact that only two of the...
