
=== ROTATION (397 occurrences) ===
1. ...rge Uhlenbeck. In 1925, they suggested that an electron, in addition to the angular momentum of its orbit, possesses an intrinsic angular momentum and magnetic dipole moment. This is analogous to the **rotation** of the Earth on its axis as it orbits the Sun. The intrinsic angular momentum became known as spin, and explained the previously mysterious splitting of spectral lines observed with a high-resolution...
2. ...tion and the rhomb, Fresnel submitted a memoir in which he introduced the needed terms "linear polarization", "circular polarization", and "elliptical polarization", and in which he explained optical **rotation** as a species of birefringence: linearly-polarized light can be resolved into two circularly-polarized components rotating in opposite directions, and if these propagate at different speeds, the phase...
3. ...paragraph may be unduly charitable to Davy. The accusation by Davy of plagiarism by Faraday occurred already in 1821, regarding Faraday's first major discovery independent of Davy, of electromagnetic **rotation** (the first electric motor). According to Geoffrey Cantor's 1991 biography of Faraday, this dubious accusation was Davy's "final bid to dominate Faraday... Davy, resenting the success of his earnest a...
4. ...al kilometers away. A rotating cog wheel was placed in the path of the light beam as it traveled from the source, to the mirror and then returned to its origin. Fizeau found that at a certain rate of **rotation**, the beam would pass through one gap in the wheel on the way out and the next gap on the way back. Knowing the distance to the mirror, the number of teeth on the wheel and the rate of rotation, Fizea...
5. ...ate of rotation, the beam would pass through one gap in the wheel on the way out and the next gap on the way back. Knowing the distance to the mirror, the number of teeth on the wheel and the rate of **rotation**, Fizeau was able to calculate the speed of light as . Léon Foucault carried out an experiment which used rotating mirrors to obtain a value of in 1862. Albert A. Michelson conducted experiments on th...
6. ...paceships in space is also under investigation. Although the motion of the Crookes radiometer was originally attributed to light pressure, this interpretation is incorrect; the characteristic Crookes **rotation** is the result of a partial vacuum. This should not be confused with the Nichols radiometer, in which the (slight) motion caused by torque (though not enough for full rotation against friction) "is" d...
7. ...e characteristic Crookes rotation is the result of a partial vacuum. This should not be confused with the Nichols radiometer, in which the (slight) motion caused by torque (though not enough for full **rotation** against friction) "is" directly caused by light pressure. As a consequence of light pressure, Einstein in 1909 predicted the existence of "radiation friction" which would oppose the movement of matte...
8. ...plane of polarization of linearly polarized light is rotated when the light rays travel along the magnetic field direction in the presence of a transparent dielectric, an effect now known as Faraday **rotation**. This was the first evidence that light was related to electromagnetism. In 1846 he speculated that light might be some form of disturbance propagating along magnetic field lines. Faraday proposed in...
9. ...uations, the Lorentz Force can be deduced. The reverse is also true, the Lorentz force and the Maxwell Equations can be used to derive the Faraday Law. Let be the moving wire, moving together without **rotation** and with constant velocity and be the internal surface of the wire. The EMF around the closed path is given by: formula_38 where formula_39 is the electric field and is an infinitesimal vector elemen...
10. ...kinds of glass intended for optical purposes. A specimen of one of these heavy glasses subsequently became historically important; when the glass was placed in a magnetic field Faraday determined the **rotation** of the plane of polarisation of light. This specimen was also the first substance found to be repelled by the poles of a magnet. Faraday invented an early form of what was to become the Bunsen burner...
11. ...William Hyde Wollaston tried, but failed, to design an electric motor. Faraday, having discussed the problem with the two men, went on to build two devices to produce what he called "electromagnetic **rotation**". One of these, now known as the homopolar motor, caused a continuous circular motion that was engendered by the circular magnetic force around a wire that extended into a pool of mercury wherein was...
12. ...90° ahead of the component or it can be 90° behind the component. In this special case, the electric vector traces out a circle in the plane, so this polarisation is called circular polarisation. The **rotation** direction in the circle depends on which of the two-phase relationships exists and corresponds to "right-hand circular polarisation" and "left-hand circular polarisation". In all other cases, where t...
13. ...ferent indexes of refraction for different polarisation modes are called "birefringent". Well known manifestations of this effect appear in optical wave plates/retarders (linear modes) and in Faraday **rotation**/optical rotation (circular modes). If the path length in the birefringent medium is sufficient, plane waves will exit the material with a significantly different propagation direction, due to refract...
14. ...refraction for different polarisation modes are called "birefringent". Well known manifestations of this effect appear in optical wave plates/retarders (linear modes) and in Faraday rotation/optical **rotation** (circular modes). If the path length in the birefringent medium is sufficient, plane waves will exit the material with a significantly different propagation direction, due to refraction. For example,...
15. ...attered light can be taken advantage of using polarising filters to darken the sky in photographs. Optical polarisation is principally of importance in chemistry due to circular dichroism and optical **rotation** ("circular birefringence") exhibited by optically active (chiral) molecules. "Modern optics" encompasses the areas of optical science and engineering that became popular in the 20th century. These ar...
16. ...y that energy level is said to be "doubly degenerate". Degeneracy results from symmetry in the system. For the above case two of the lengths are equal so the system is symmetric with respect to a 90° **rotation**. The wave function for a quantum-mechanical particle in a box whose walls have arbitrary shape is given by the Helmholtz equation subject to the boundary condition that the wave function vanishes at...
17. ...ero, or constant, stress field; and the superscript t stands for transposition of a matrix. Notice that the third order tensor formula_8 maps vectors into symmetric matrices. There are no non-trivial **rotation**-invariant tensors that have this property, which is why there are no isotropic piezoelectric materials. The strain-charge for a material of the 4mm (C) crystal class (such as a poled piezoelectric ce...
18. ...artz are examples of chiral crystal structures composed of achiral building blocks (SiO tetrahedra in the present case). The transformation between α- and β-quartz only involves a comparatively minor **rotation** of the tetrahedra with respect to one another, without a change in the way they are linked. However, there is a significant change in volume during this transition, and this can result in significant...
19. ...to an operator. Such a device is called a rheostat and has two terminals. A potentiometer (colloquially, "pot") is a three-terminal resistor with a continuously adjustable tapping point controlled by **rotation** of a shaft or knob or by a linear slider. The name "potentiometer" comes from its function as an adjustable voltage divider to provide a variable potential at the terminal connected to the tapping po...
20. ...oucault. The setup as used by Fizeau consists of a beam of light directed at a mirror away. On the way from the source to the mirror, the beam passes through a rotating cogwheel. At a certain rate of **rotation**, the beam passes through one gap on the way out and another on the way back, but at slightly higher or lower rates, the beam strikes a tooth and does not pass through the wheel. Knowing the distance...
21. ...slightly higher or lower rates, the beam strikes a tooth and does not pass through the wheel. Knowing the distance between the wheel and the mirror, the number of teeth on the wheel, and the rate of **rotation**, the speed of light can be calculated. The method of Foucault replaces the cogwheel with a rotating mirror. Because the mirror keeps rotating while the light travels to the distant mirror and back, t...
22. ...avels to the distant mirror and back, the light is reflected from the rotating mirror at a different angle on its way out than it is on its way back. From this difference in angle, the known speed of **rotation** and the distance to the distant mirror the speed of light may be calculated. Foucault used this apparatus to measure the speed of light in air versus water, based on a suggestion by François Arago. T...
23. ...omptly concluded that such a ray could only be "reflected". René Descartes rediscovered the law of refraction and published it in his "Dioptrique" of 1637. In the same work he mentioned the senses of **rotation** of the incident and refracted rays and the condition of TIR. But he neglected to discuss the limiting case, and consequently failed to give an expression for the critical angle, although he could eas...
24. ...ed, was more thoroughly investigated in 1812 by Jean-Baptiste Biot. In 1813, Biot established that one case studied by Arago, namely quartz cut perpendicular to its optic axis, was actually a gradual **rotation** of the plane of polarization with distance. In 1816, Fresnel offered his first attempt at a "wave-based" theory of chromatic polarization. Without (yet) explicitly invoking transverse waves, his theo...
25. ...oil and of the stationary magnet creates a torque, tending to make the coil rotate. The torque is proportional to the current through the coil. The coil rotates, compressing a spring that opposes the **rotation**. The deflection of the coil is thus proportional to the current, which in turn is proportional to the applied voltage, which is indicated by a pointer on a scale.  One of the design objectives of the...
26. ...its current increased to infinity such that the product is finite. This model clarifies the connection between angular momentum and magnetic moment, which is the basis of the Einstein–de Haas effect "**rotation** by magnetization" and its inverse, the Barnett effect or "magnetization by rotation". Rotating the loop faster (in the same direction) increases the current and therefore the magnetic moment, for exa...
27. ...ies the connection between angular momentum and magnetic moment, which is the basis of the Einstein–de Haas effect "rotation by magnetization" and its inverse, the Barnett effect or "magnetization by **rotation**". Rotating the loop faster (in the same direction) increases the current and therefore the magnetic moment, for example. Specifying the force between two small magnets is quite complicated because it...
28. ...jority of electrons are thus stuck orbiting in the region of high radial magnetic field near the thruster exit plane, trapped in "E"×"B" (axial electric field and radial magnetic field). This orbital **rotation** of the electrons is a circulating Hall current, and it is from this that the Hall thruster gets its name. Collisions with other particles and walls, as well as plasma instabilities, allow some of the...
29. ...magnetic field (RMF) with rotational frequency (s) formula_452 chosen that is fast enough that positive ions do not rotate but the less massive electrons rotate at this speed. The figure illustrates **rotation** using color coded contours of constant magnetic strength, not magnetic field lines. In order to inflate the magnetospheric bubble the thermal plasma beta formula_453 must be high and initially a plas...
30. ...de neutral currents. Wiring for three phases is typically identified by colors that vary by country and voltage. The phases must be connected in the correct order to achieve the intended direction of **rotation** of three-phase motors. For example, pumps and fans do not work as intended in reverse. Maintaining the identity of phases is required if two sources could be connected at the same time. A direct conn...
31. ...r to an energized distribution network or when connecting two transformers in parallel. Otherwise, the interconnection will behave like a short circuit, and excess current will flow. The direction of **rotation** of three-phase motors can be reversed by interchanging any two phases; it may be impractical or harmful to test a machine by momentarily energizing the motor to observe its rotation. Phase sequence o...
32. ...The direction of rotation of three-phase motors can be reversed by interchanging any two phases; it may be impractical or harmful to test a machine by momentarily energizing the motor to observe its **rotation**. Phase sequence of two sources can be verified by measuring voltage between pairs of terminals and observing that terminals with very low voltage between them will have the same phase, whereas pairs...
33. ...that terminals with very low voltage between them will have the same phase, whereas pairs that show a higher voltage are on different phases. Where the absolute phase identity is not required, phase **rotation** test instruments can be used to identify the rotation sequence with one observation. The phase rotation test instrument may contain a miniature three-phase motor, whose direction of rotation can be d...
34. ...l have the same phase, whereas pairs that show a higher voltage are on different phases. Where the absolute phase identity is not required, phase rotation test instruments can be used to identify the **rotation** sequence with one observation. The phase rotation test instrument may contain a miniature three-phase motor, whose direction of rotation can be directly observed through the instrument case. Another...
35. ...igher voltage are on different phases. Where the absolute phase identity is not required, phase rotation test instruments can be used to identify the rotation sequence with one observation. The phase **rotation** test instrument may contain a miniature three-phase motor, whose direction of rotation can be directly observed through the instrument case. Another pattern uses a pair of lamps and an internal phase...
36. ...d, phase rotation test instruments can be used to identify the rotation sequence with one observation. The phase rotation test instrument may contain a miniature three-phase motor, whose direction of **rotation** can be directly observed through the instrument case. Another pattern uses a pair of lamps and an internal phase-shifting network to display the phase rotation. Another type of instrument can be conn...
37. ...e three-phase motor, whose direction of rotation can be directly observed through the instrument case. Another pattern uses a pair of lamps and an internal phase-shifting network to display the phase **rotation**. Another type of instrument can be connected to a de-energized three-phase motor and can detect the small voltages induced by residual magnetism, when the motor shaft is rotated by hand. A lamp or ot...
38. ...ll voltages induced by residual magnetism, when the motor shaft is rotated by hand. A lamp or other indicator lights to show the sequence of voltages at the terminals for the given direction of shaft **rotation**. Conductors of a three-phase system are usually identified by a color code, to facilitate balanced loading and to assure the correct phase rotation for motors. Colors used may adhere to International...
39. ...s at the terminals for the given direction of shaft rotation. Conductors of a three-phase system are usually identified by a color code, to facilitate balanced loading and to assure the correct phase **rotation** for motors. Colors used may adhere to International Standard IEC 60446 (later IEC 60445), older standards or to no standard at all and may vary even within a single installation. For example, in the...
40. ...t settles into its equilibrium orientation. In navigation, directions on maps are usually expressed with reference to geographical or true north, the direction toward the Geographical North Pole, the **rotation** axis of the Earth. Depending on where the compass is located on the surface of the Earth the angle between true north and magnetic north, called magnetic declination can vary widely with geographic l...
41. ...compass. A gyrocompass is similar to a gyroscope. It is a non-magnetic compass that finds true north by using an (electrically powered) fast-spinning wheel and friction forces in order to exploit the **rotation** of the Earth. Gyrocompasses are widely used on ships. They have two main advantages over magnetic compasses: Large ships typically rely on a gyrocompass, using the magnetic compass only as a backup....
42. ...mena within the system (see Astrophysical plasma). Sunspots are caused by the Sun's magnetic fields, as Joseph Larmor theorized in 1919. The solar wind is also governed by MHD. The differential solar **rotation** may be the long-term effect of magnetic drag at the poles of the Sun, an MHD phenomenon due to the Parker spiral shape assumed by the extended magnetic field of the Sun. Previously, theories describi...
43. ...th conserved. That conservation would imply that as the mass concentrated in the center of the cloud to form the Sun, it would spin faster, much like a skater pulling their arms in. The high speed of **rotation** predicted by early theories would have flung the proto-Sun apart before it could have formed. However, magnetohydrodynamic effects transfer the Sun's angular momentum into the outer solar system, slo...
44. ...d by early theories would have flung the proto-Sun apart before it could have formed. However, magnetohydrodynamic effects transfer the Sun's angular momentum into the outer solar system, slowing its **rotation**. Breakdown of ideal MHD (in the form of magnetic reconnection) is known to be the likely cause of solar flares. The magnetic field in a solar active region over a sunspot can store energy that is rel...
45. ...the second needle is to cancel the dipole moment of the first needle, so the suspended armature has no net magnetic dipole moment, and thus is not affected by the earth's magnetic field. The needle's **rotation** is opposed by the torsional elasticity of the suspension thread, which is proportional to the angle. To achieve higher sensitivity to detect extremely small currents, the mirror galvanometer substitu...
46. ...distance between charges within each permanent dipole, which is related to chemical bonding, remains constant in orientation polarisation; however, the direction of polarisation itself rotates. This **rotation** occurs on a timescale that depends on the torque and surrounding local viscosity of the molecules. Because the rotation is not instantaneous, dipolar polarisations lose the response to electric field...
47. ...ation polarisation; however, the direction of polarisation itself rotates. This rotation occurs on a timescale that depends on the torque and surrounding local viscosity of the molecules. Because the **rotation** is not instantaneous, dipolar polarisations lose the response to electric fields at the highest frequencies. A molecule rotates about 1 radian per picosecond in a fluid, thus this loss occurs at abou...
48. ...he rotational mode number , in addition to affecting the Laguerre polynomial, is mainly contained in the "phase" factor , in which the beam profile is advanced (or retarded) by complete phases in one **rotation** around the beam (in ). This is an example of an optical vortex of topological charge , and can be associated with the orbital angular momentum of light in that mode. In elliptic coordinates, one can...
49. ...entz reciprocity, which is a necessary condition to construct devices such as optical isolators (through which light passes in one direction but not the other). Two gyrotropic materials with reversed **rotation** directions of the two principal polarizations, corresponding to complex-conjugate ε tensors for lossless media, are called optical isomers. In particular, in a magneto-optic material the presence of...
50. ...phase velocities leads to the Faraday effect. For light propagating purely perpendicular to the axis of gyration, the properties are known as the Cotton-Mouton effect and used for a Circulator. Kerr **rotation** and Kerr ellipticity are changes in the polarization of incident light which comes in contact with a gyromagnetic material. Kerr rotation is a rotation in the plane of polarization of transmitted lig...
51. ...n as the Cotton-Mouton effect and used for a Circulator. Kerr rotation and Kerr ellipticity are changes in the polarization of incident light which comes in contact with a gyromagnetic material. Kerr **rotation** is a rotation in the plane of polarization of transmitted light, and Kerr ellipticity is the ratio of the major to minor axis of the ellipse traced out by elliptically polarized light on the plane th...
52. ...n-Mouton effect and used for a Circulator. Kerr rotation and Kerr ellipticity are changes in the polarization of incident light which comes in contact with a gyromagnetic material. Kerr rotation is a **rotation** in the plane of polarization of transmitted light, and Kerr ellipticity is the ratio of the major to minor axis of the ellipse traced out by elliptically polarized light on the plane through which it...
53. ...ed than the vertical component (blue sinusoid), the two components will fall out of the 90 degree phase difference (required for circular polarization) changing the Kerr ellipticity. A change in Kerr **rotation** is most easily recognized in linearly polarized light, which can be separated into two circularly polarized components: Left-handed circular polarized (LHCP) light and right-handed circular polarized...
54. ...mittivity causes a difference in the speed of LHCP and RHCP light, which will cause a change in the angle of polarized light. Materials that exhibit this property are known as birefringent. From this **rotation**, we can calculate the difference in orthogonal velocity components, find the anisotropic permittivity, find the gyration vector, and calculate the applied magnetic field formula_16. Noise-equivalent...
55. ...d components causes a rotating electric field vector, which is depicted in the animation on the right. Note that circular or elliptical polarization can involve either a clockwise or counterclockwise **rotation** of the field, depending on the relative phases of the components. These correspond to distinct polarization states, such as the two circular polarizations shown above. The orientation of the and axes...
56. ...or over one cycle of oscillation traces out an ellipse. A polarization state can then be described in relation to the geometrical parameters of the ellipse, and its "handedness", that is, whether the **rotation** around the ellipse is clockwise or counter clockwise. One parameterization of the elliptical figure specifies the orientation angle , defined as the angle between the major axis of the ellipse and th...
57. ...er polarization state is represented using geometric parameters or Jones vectors, implicit in the parameterization is the orientation of the coordinate frame. This permits a degree of freedom, namely **rotation** about the propagation direction. When considering light that is propagating parallel to the surface of the Earth, the terms "horizontal" and "vertical" polarization are often used, with the former be...
58. ...ht in between two polarizers may give rise to colorful effects, as seen in the accompanying photograph. Circular birefringence is also termed optical activity, especially in chiral fluids, or Faraday **rotation**, when due to the presence of a magnetic field along the direction of propagation. When linearly polarized light is passed through such an object, it will exit still linearly polarized, but with the a...
59. ...original azimuth angle, and finally back to the original linearly polarized state (360° phase) where the cycle begins anew. In general the situation is more complicated and can be characterized as a **rotation** in the Poincaré sphere about the axis defined by the propagation modes. Examples for linear (blue), circular (red), and elliptical (yellow) birefringence are shown in the figure on the left. The tota...
60. ...se of circular (or elliptical) polarization, the handedness of the polarization state is thereby reversed, since by convention this is specified relative to the direction of propagation. The circular **rotation** of the electric field around the axes called "right-handed" for a wave in the direction is "left-handed" for a wave in the direction. But in the general case of reflection at a nonzero angle of incid...
61. ...s its polarization state altered upon transmission through such a crystal, making it stand out when viewed in between two crossed polarizers, as seen in the photograph, above. Likewise, in chemistry, **rotation** of polarization axes in a liquid solution can be a useful measurement. In a liquid, linear birefringence is impossible, but there may be circular birefringence when a chiral molecule is in solution....
62. ...osed upon starlight by scattering from interstellar dust. Apart from providing information on sources of radiation and scattering, polarization also probes the interstellar magnetic field via Faraday **rotation**. The polarization of the cosmic microwave background is being used to study the physics of the very early universe. Synchrotron radiation is inherently polarized. It has been suggested that astronomi...
63. ...e in the 12th century. Related to the sky compass is the "polar clock", invented by Charles Wheatstone in the late 19th century. The principle of liquid-crystal display (LCD) technology relies on the **rotation** of the axis of linear polarization by the liquid crystal array. Light from the backlight (or the back reflective layer, in devices not including or requiring a backlight) first passes through a linea...
64. ...rystal layer is produced with a consistent right (or left) handed chirality, essentially consisting of tiny helices. This causes circular birefringence, and is engineered so that there is a 90 degree **rotation** of the linear polarization state. However, when a voltage is applied across a cell, the molecules straighten out, lessening or totally losing the circular birefringence. On the viewing side of the di...
65. ...the application of a sufficient voltage, the polarization of the transmitted light remains at right angles to the front polarizer, and the pixel appears dark. With no voltage, however, the 90 degree **rotation** of the polarization causes it to exactly match the axis of the front polarizer, allowing the light through. Intermediate voltages create intermediate rotation of the polarization axis and the pixel h...
66. ...With no voltage, however, the 90 degree rotation of the polarization causes it to exactly match the axis of the front polarizer, allowing the light through. Intermediate voltages create intermediate **rotation** of the polarization axis and the pixel has an intermediate intensity. Displays based on this principle are widespread, and now are used in the vast majority of televisions, computer monitors and vide...
67. ...(depending on the convention used) has its electric (and magnetic) field direction rotating clockwise while propagating in the +z direction. Upon reflection, the field still has the same direction of **rotation**, but now propagation is in the −z direction making the reflected wave "left" circularly polarized. With the right circular polarization filter placed in front of the reflecting glass, the unwanted li...
68. ...a change in polarization and (partial) reception of the return wave by the same antenna. The effect of free electrons in the ionosphere, in conjunction with the earth's magnetic field, causes Faraday **rotation**, a sort of circular birefringence. This is the same mechanism which can rotate the axis of linear polarization by electrons in interstellar space as mentioned below. The magnitude of Faraday rotation...
69. ...rotation, a sort of circular birefringence. This is the same mechanism which can rotate the axis of linear polarization by electrons in interstellar space as mentioned below. The magnitude of Faraday **rotation** caused by such a plasma is greatly exaggerated at lower frequencies, so at the higher microwave frequencies used by satellites the effect is minimal. However, medium or short wave transmissions recei...
70. ...11th, 17th, etc.) combine 120 degrees out of phase, similarly to the fundamental harmonic but in a reversed sequence. In generators and motors, these currents produce magnetic fields which oppose the **rotation** of the shaft and sometimes result in damaging mechanical vibrations. The simplest way to control the harmonic current is to use a filter that passes current only at line frequency (50 or 60 Hz). The...
71. ...night they begin with glows and progress toward coronas, although they may not reach them. They tend to fade in the opposite order. Until about 1963, it was thought that these changes are due to the **rotation** of the Earth under a pattern fixed with respect to the Sun. Later, it was found by comparing all-sky films of auroras from different places (collected during the International Geophysical Year) that...
72. ...he IMF originates on the Sun, linked to the sunspots, and its field lines (lines of force) are dragged out by the solar wind. That alone would tend to line them up in the Sun-Earth direction, but the **rotation** of the Sun angles them at Earth by about 45 degrees forming a spiral in the ecliptic plane, known as the Parker spiral. The field lines passing Earth are therefore usually linked to those near the we...
73. ...quencies, molecules in polar dielectrics are polarized by an applied electric field, which induces periodic rotations. For example, at the microwave frequency, the microwave field causes the periodic **rotation** of water molecules, sufficient to break hydrogen bonds. The field does work against the bonds and the energy is absorbed by the material as heat. This is why microwave ovens work very well for materi...
74. ...e other at far ultraviolet (UV) frequency. Both of these resonances are at higher frequencies than the operating frequency of microwave ovens. At moderate frequencies, the energy is too high to cause **rotation**, yet too low to affect electrons directly, and is absorbed in the form of resonant molecular vibrations. In water, this is where the absorptive index starts to drop sharply, and the minimum of the im...
75. ...the Radiation Belt Storm Probes Ion Composition Experiment (RBSPICE) onboard Van Allen Probes. The initial theory proposed in 2014 was that—due to the tilt in Earth's magnetic field axis—the planet's **rotation** generated an oscillating, weak electric field that permeates through the entire inner radiation belt. A 2016 study instead concluded that the zebra stripes were an imprint of ionospheric winds on rad...
76. ...flows through the conducting rim, a magnetic field is generated by this current through Ampère's circuital law (labelled "induced B" in the figure). The rim thus becomes an electromagnet that resists **rotation** of the disc (an example of Lenz's law). On the far side of the figure, the return current flows from the rotating arm through the far side of the rim to the bottom brush. The B-field induced by this...
77. ...im to the bottom brush. The B-field induced by this return current opposes the applied B-field, tending to "decrease" the flux through that side of the circuit, opposing the "increase" in flux due to **rotation**. On the near side of the figure, the return current flows from the rotating arm through the near side of the rim to the bottom brush. The induced B-field "increases" the flux on this side of the circ...
78. ...nt flows from the rotating arm through the near side of the rim to the bottom brush. The induced B-field "increases" the flux on this side of the circuit, opposing the "decrease" in flux due to r the **rotation**. The energy required to keep the disc moving, despite this reactive force, is exactly equal to the electrical energy generated (plus energy wasted due to friction, Joule heating, and other inefficien...
79. ...element and a wiper that turns through 10, 20, or more complete revolutions, moving along the helix as it rotates. Multiturn potentiometers, both user-accessible and preset, allow finer adjustments; **rotation** through the same angle changes the setting by typically a tenth as much as for a simple rotary potentiometer. A string potentiometer is a multi-turn potentiometer operated by an attached reel of wire...
80. ...st a spring, allowing it to convert linear position to a variable resistance. User-accessible rotary potentiometers can be fitted with a switch which operates usually at the anti-clockwise extreme of **rotation**. Before digital electronics became the norm such a component was used to allow radio and television receivers and other equipment to be switched on at minimum volume with an audible click, then the v...
81. ...logarithmic taper. The code used also varies between different manufacturers. When a percentage is referenced with a non-linear taper, it relates to the resistance value at the midpoint of the shaft **rotation**. A 10% log taper would therefore measure 10% of the total resistance at the midpoint of the rotation; i.e. 10% log taper on a 10 kOhm potentiometer would yield 1 kOhm at the midpoint. The higher the...
82. ...eferenced with a non-linear taper, it relates to the resistance value at the midpoint of the shaft rotation. A 10% log taper would therefore measure 10% of the total resistance at the midpoint of the **rotation**; i.e. 10% log taper on a 10 kOhm potentiometer would yield 1 kOhm at the midpoint. The higher the percentage, the steeper the log curve. A "linear taper potentiometer" ("linear" describes the electri...
83. ...(wiper) and one end terminal is proportional to the distance between them. Linear taper potentiometers are used when the division ratio of the potentiometer must be proportional to the angle of shaft **rotation** (or slider position), for example, controls used for adjusting the centering of the display on an analog cathode-ray oscilloscope. Precision potentiometers have an accurate relationship between resis...
84. ...rately logarithmic, but use two regions of different resistance (but constant resistivity) to approximate a logarithmic law. The two resistive tracks overlap at approximately 50% of the potentiometer **rotation**; this gives a stepwise logarithmic taper. A logarithmic potentiometer can also be simulated with a linear one and an external resistor. True logarithmic potentiometers are significantly more expensiv...
85. ...ons for a calculation. A motor-driven potentiometer may be used as a function generator, using a non-linear resistance card to supply approximations to trigonometric functions. For example, the shaft **rotation** might represent an angle, and the voltage division ratio can be made proportional to the cosine of the angle. The potentiometer can be used as a voltage divider to obtain a manually adjustable output...
86. ...s heat and friction. Electric motors produce linear or rotary force (torque) intended to propel some external mechanism. This makes them a type of actuator. They are generally designed for continuous **rotation**, or for linear movement over a significant distance compared to its size. Solenoids also convert electrical power to mechanical motion, but over only a limited distance. Before modern electromagnetic...
87. ...o practical application until late in the century. In 1827, Hungarian physicist Ányos Jedlik started experimenting with electromagnetic coils. After Jedlik solved the technical problems of continuous **rotation** with the invention of the commutator, he called his early devices "electromagnetic self-rotors". Although they were used only for teaching, in 1828 Jedlik demonstrated the first device to contain the...
88. ...ng below about 1 horsepower (0.746 kW), or is manufactured with a frame size smaller than a standard 1 HP motor. Many household and industrial motors are in the fractional-horsepower class. Notes: 1. **Rotation** is independent of the frequency of the AC voltage. 2. Rotation is equal to synchronous speed (motor-stator-field speed). 3. In SCIM, fixed-speed operation rotation is equal to synchronous speed, less...
89. ...a frame size smaller than a standard 1 HP motor. Many household and industrial motors are in the fractional-horsepower class. Notes: 1. Rotation is independent of the frequency of the AC voltage. 2. **Rotation** is equal to synchronous speed (motor-stator-field speed). 3. In SCIM, fixed-speed operation rotation is equal to synchronous speed, less slip speed. 4. In non-slip energy-recovery systems, WRIM is us...
90. ...ctional-horsepower class. Notes: 1. Rotation is independent of the frequency of the AC voltage. 2. Rotation is equal to synchronous speed (motor-stator-field speed). 3. In SCIM, fixed-speed operation **rotation** is equal to synchronous speed, less slip speed. 4. In non-slip energy-recovery systems, WRIM is usually used for motor-starting but can be used to vary load speed. 5. Variable-speed operation. 6. Whe...
91. ...th some three-phase. Abbreviations: Most DC motors are small permanent magnet (PM) types. They contain a brushed internal mechanical commutation to reverse motor windings' current in synchronism with **rotation**. A commutated DC motor has a set of rotating windings wound on an armature mounted on a rotating shaft. The shaft also carries the commutator. Thus, every brushed DC motor has AC flowing through its...
92. ...e current in both the field and the armature coils (and hence the resultant magnetic fields) synchronously reverse polarity, and hence the resulting mechanical force occurs in a constant direction of **rotation**. Operating at normal power line frequencies, universal motors are often used in sub-kilowatt applications. Universal motors formed the basis of the traditional railway traction motor in electric rail...
93. ...onous motors, stepper motors and SRMs are classified as variable reluctance motor type. A linear motor is essentially any electric motor that has been "unrolled" so that, instead of producing torque (**rotation**), it produces a straight-line force along its length. Linear motors are most commonly induction motors or stepper motors. Linear motors are commonly found in roller-coasters where the rapid motion of...
94. ...cestors can be found in some of the echidna's anatomy, including hydrodynamic streamlining, dorsally projecting hind limbs acting as rudders, and locomotion founded on hypertrophied humeral long-axis **rotation**, which provides an efficient swimming stroke.  Oviparous reproduction in monotremes may give them an advantage over marsupials in some environments. Their observed adaptive radiation contradicts the...
95. ...e. Light interacts with a magnetized surface nonlinearly so the reflected light has an elliptical polarization, which is then measured by a detector. Another method of optical magnetometry is Faraday **rotation** magnetometry. Faraday rotation magnetometry utilizes nonlinear magneto-optical rotation to measure a sample's magnetization. In this method a Faraday modulating thin film is applied to the sample to...
96. ...tized surface nonlinearly so the reflected light has an elliptical polarization, which is then measured by a detector. Another method of optical magnetometry is Faraday rotation magnetometry. Faraday **rotation** magnetometry utilizes nonlinear magneto-optical rotation to measure a sample's magnetization. In this method a Faraday modulating thin film is applied to the sample to be measured and a series of ima...
97. ...lliptical polarization, which is then measured by a detector. Another method of optical magnetometry is Faraday rotation magnetometry. Faraday rotation magnetometry utilizes nonlinear magneto-optical **rotation** to measure a sample's magnetization. In this method a Faraday modulating thin film is applied to the sample to be measured and a series of images are taken with a camera that senses the polarization...
98. ...potassium magnetometer's faster measurement rate allows the sensor to be moved through the area more quickly for a given number of data points. Caesium and potassium magnetometers are insensitive to **rotation** of the sensor while the measurement is being made. The lower noise of caesium and potassium magnetometers allow those measurements to more accurately show the variations in the field with position. V...
99. .... The magnetic field induces a sine wave in a rotating coil. The amplitude of the signal is proportional to the strength of the field, provided it is uniform, and to the sine of the angle between the **rotation** axis of the coil and the field lines. This type of magnetometer is obsolete. The most common magnetic sensing devices are solid-state Hall effect sensors. These sensors produce a voltage proportional...
100. ...he applied magnetic field and also sense polarity. They are used in applications where the magnetic field strength is relatively large, such as in anti-lock braking systems in cars, which sense wheel **rotation** speed via slots in the wheel disks. These are made of thin strips of Permalloy, a high magnetic permeability, nickel-iron alloy, whose electrical resistance varies with a change in magnetic field. Th...
101. ...le above which the electromagnetic field is expected to become nonlinear is known as the Schwinger limit. At this point the vacuum has all the properties of a birefringent medium, thus in principle a **rotation** of the polarization frame (the Faraday effect) can be observed in empty space. Both Einstein's theory of special and general relativity state that light should pass freely through a vacuum without be...
102. ...depends on its direction, polarization and the local strength of the magnetic field. There have been a number of inconclusive results which claim to show evidence of a Lorentz violation by finding a **rotation** of the polarization plane of light coming from distant galaxies. The first concrete evidence for vacuum birefringence was published in 2017 when a team of astronomers looked at the light coming from...
103. ...re. There are many observed nonlinear physical electromagnetic phenomena such as Aharonov–Bohm (AB) and Altshuler–Aronov–Spivak (AAS) effects, Berry, Aharonov–Anandan, Pancharatnam and Chiao–Wu phase **rotation** effects, Josephson effect, Quantum Hall effect, the De Haas–Van Alphen effect, the Sagnac effect and many other physically observable phenomena which would indicate that the electromagnetic potential...
104. ...at experiencing darkness (night). While a little over one half of Earth is illuminated at any point in time (with exceptions during eclipses), the terminator path varies by time of day due to Earth's **rotation** on its axis. The terminator path also varies by time of year due to Earth's orbital revolution around the Sun; thus, the plane of the terminator is nearly parallel to planes created by lines of longi...
105. ...s the division between the illuminated and dark hemispheres of the Moon. It is the lunar equivalent of the division between night and day on the Earth spheroid, although the Moon's much lower rate of **rotation** means it takes longer for it to pass across the surface. At the equator, it moves at , as fast as an athletic human can run on earth. Due to the angle at which sunlight strikes this portion of the Mo...
106. ...leased by heavier materials sinking toward the core (planetary differentiation, the iron catastrophe) as well as decay of radioactive elements in the interior. The pattern of flow is organized by the **rotation** of the Earth and the presence of the solid inner core. The mechanism by which the Earth generates a magnetic field is known as a geodynamo. The magnetic field is generated by a feedback loop: current...
107. ...ated to the inner core. In the process, lighter elements are left behind in the fluid, making it lighter. This is called "compositional convection". A Coriolis effect, caused by the overall planetary **rotation**, tends to organize the flow into rolls aligned along the north–south polar axis. A dynamo can amplify a magnetic field, but it needs a "seed" field to get it started. For the Earth, this could have b...
108. ...with ferromagnetic ordering. Other magnetic orderings, such as spin glass ordering, also exhibit this phenomenon. The phenomenon of hysteresis in ferromagnetic materials is the result of two effects: **rotation** of magnetization and changes in size or number of magnetic domains. In general, the magnetization varies (in direction but not magnitude) across a magnet, but in sufficiently small magnets, it does n...
109. ...sizes of the domains. Because the domains are not magnetized in the same direction, the magnetic moment per unit volume is smaller than it would be in a single-domain magnet; but domain walls involve **rotation** of only a small part of the magnetization, so it is much easier to change the magnetic moment. The magnetization can also change by addition or subtraction of domains (called "nucleation" and "denucl...
110. ...Earth was iron, and he considered an important and related property of magnets, being that they can be cut, each forming a new magnet with north and south poles. In , he argues in support of diurnal **rotation** though he does not talk about heliocentrism, stating that it is an absurdity to think that the immense celestial spheres (doubting even that they exist) rotate daily, as opposed to the diurnal rotati...
111. ...tation though he does not talk about heliocentrism, stating that it is an absurdity to think that the immense celestial spheres (doubting even that they exist) rotate daily, as opposed to the diurnal **rotation** of the much-smaller Earth. He also posits that the "fixed" stars are at remote variable distances rather than fixed to an imaginary sphere. He states that, situated "in thinnest aether, or in the mos...
112. ...rs seized upon, incorrectly, as governing the motions that they observed. While not attributing magnetism to attraction among the stars, Gilbert pointed out the motion of the skies was due to Earth's **rotation**, and not the rotation of the spheres, 20 years before Galileo (but 57 years after Copernicus, who stated it openly in his work "De revolutionibus orbium coelestium", which was published in 1543) (see...
113. ...ectly, as governing the motions that they observed. While not attributing magnetism to attraction among the stars, Gilbert pointed out the motion of the skies was due to Earth's rotation, and not the **rotation** of the spheres, 20 years before Galileo (but 57 years after Copernicus, who stated it openly in his work "De revolutionibus orbium coelestium", which was published in 1543) (see external reference be...
114. ...Gilbert, in his work, "De Magnete" printed in 1600 has only some vague notions that the magnetic virtue of the earth in some way determines the direction of the earth's axis, the rate of its diurnal **rotation**, and that of the revolution of the moon about it. Gilbert died in 1603, and in his posthumous work ("De Mundo nostro Sublunari Philosophia nova", 1631) we have already a more distinct statement of th...
115. ...elied on the analogy of terrestrial phenomena to those exhibited by what he calls a "terrella", or artificial spherical magnet. ...Gilbert was also one of our earliest Copernicans, at least as to the **rotation** of the earth; and with his usual sagacity inferred, before the invention of the telescope, that there are a multitude of fixed stars beyond the reach of our vision. Walter William Bryant of the Royal...
116. ...abry–Pérot interferometers or Lyot filters. Michelson interferometers have the largest field of view for a specified wavelength, and are relatively simple in operation, since tuning is via mechanical **rotation** of waveplates rather than via high voltage control of piezoelectric crystals or lithium niobate optical modulators as used in a Fabry–Pérot system. Compared with Lyot filters, which use birefringent...
117. ...Large Array illustrated in Fig 11, used arrays of telescopes arranged in a pattern on the ground. A limited number of baselines will result in insufficient coverage. This was alleviated by using the **rotation** of the Earth to rotate the array relative to the sky. Thus, a single baseline could measure information in multiple orientations by taking repeated measurements, a technique called "Earth-rotation sy...
118. ...he rotation of the Earth to rotate the array relative to the sky. Thus, a single baseline could measure information in multiple orientations by taking repeated measurements, a technique called "Earth-**rotation** synthesis". Baselines thousands of kilometers long were achieved using very long baseline interferometry. Astronomical optical interferometry has had to overcome a number of technical issues not shar...
119. ...ffect. The distinction between RLGs and FOGs is that in a RLG, the entire ring is part of the laser while in a FOG, an external laser injects counter-propagating beams into an optical fiber ring, and **rotation** of the system then causes a relative phase shift between those beams. In a RLG, the observed phase shift is proportional to the accumulated rotation, while in a FOG, the observed phase shift is propo...
120. ...-propagating beams into an optical fiber ring, and rotation of the system then causes a relative phase shift between those beams. In a RLG, the observed phase shift is proportional to the accumulated **rotation**, while in a FOG, the observed phase shift is proportional to the angular velocity. In telecommunication networks, heterodyning is used to move frequencies of individual signals to different channels...
121. ...hronous "longstator" linear motor for both propulsion and braking. It works like a rotating electric motor whose stator is "unrolled" along the underside of the guideway; instead of producing torque (**rotation**) it produces a linear force along its length. The electromagnets in the maglev vehicle which lift it also work as the equivalent of the excitation portion (rotor) of this linear electric motor. Since...
122. ...c moment of an electron in an atom is composed of two components. First, the orbital motion of an electron around a nucleus generates a magnetic moment by Ampère's circuital law. Second, the inherent **rotation**, or spin, of the electron has a spin magnetic moment. In the Bohr model of the atom, for an electron that is in the orbit of lowest energy, its orbital angular momentum has magnitude equal to the red...
123. ...rom the early 1880s to about 1893) a variety of different frequencies were used, with each electric provider setting their own, so that no single one prevailed. The most common frequency was  Hz. The **rotation** speed of induction generators and motors, the efficiency of transformers, and flickering of carbon arc lamps all played a role in frequency setting. Around 1893 the Westinghouse Electric Company in t...
124. ...converts into the electric power of the spark. The steady-state output of the Wimshurst machine is a direct (non-alternating) current that is proportional to the area covered by the metal sector, the **rotation** speed, and a complicated function of the initial charge distribution. The insulation and size of the machine determine the maximal output voltage that can be reached. The accumulated spark energy can...
125. ...attach to the nearest sectors on disc B, resulting in negative charge on B [Y] closer to the original positive charge on A, and positive charge on the opposite side of B [Y1]. After an additional 45° **rotation** ([Z] near lower chain middle), the positive (red) charge on A (lower chain) is repelled by a positive (red) charge on B ([Z] upper chain) approaching. The first collection comb ([Z] arrow-tipped line...
126. ...n from the spacecraft. Similarly, the orbits of asteroids are perturbed since the asteroid absorbs solar radiation on the side facing the Sun, but then re-emits the energy at a different angle as the **rotation** of the asteroid carries the warm surface out of the Sun's view (the YORP effect). Nanostructures with spectrally selective thermal emittance properties offer numerous technological applications for e...
127. ...measured by semiconducting strain gauges. These surface textures can be visualized using electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) or related diffraction techniques. For actuator applications, maximum **rotation** of magnetic moments leads to the highest possible magnetostriction output. This can be achieved by processing techniques such as stress annealing and field annealing. However, mechanical pre-stresses...
128. ...o detect transiting extrasolar planets. Measurements of these variations can be used, for example, to determine the orbital period and the radii of the members of an eclipsing binary star system, the **rotation** period of a minor planet or a star, or the total energy output of supernovae. A CCD (charge-coupled device) camera is essentially a grid of photometers, simultaneously measuring and recording the pho...
129. ...Effect chip are mounted next to each other separated by an air gap, forming the Hall Effect sensor. A metal rotor consisting of windows or tabs is mounted to a shaft and arranged so that during shaft **rotation**, the windows or tabs pass through the air gap between the permanent magnet and semiconductor Hall chip. This effectively shields and exposes the Hall chip to the permanent magnet's field respective o...
130. ...produces a uniform output similar to a square wave since the shielding and exposure time are equal. This signal is used by the engine computer or ECU to control ignition timing. The sensing of wheel **rotation** is especially useful in anti-lock braking systems. The principles of such systems have been extended and refined to offer more than anti-skid functions, now providing extended vehicle handling enhanc...
131. ...tions to investigate how the fluid can continuously regenerate the magnetic field. It was once believed that the dipole, which comprises much of the Earth's magnetic field and is misaligned along the **rotation** axis by 11.3 degrees, was caused by permanent magnetization of the materials in the earth. This means that dynamo theory was originally used to explain the Sun's magnetic field in its relationship wi...
132. ...te: In the case of the Earth, the magnetic field is induced and constantly maintained by the convection of liquid iron in the outer core. A requirement for the induction of field is a rotating fluid. **Rotation** in the outer core is supplied by the Coriolis effect caused by the rotation of the Earth. The Coriolis force tends to organize fluid motions and electric currents into columns (also see Taylor column...
133. ...aintained by the convection of liquid iron in the outer core. A requirement for the induction of field is a rotating fluid. Rotation in the outer core is supplied by the Coriolis effect caused by the **rotation** of the Earth. The Coriolis force tends to organize fluid motions and electric currents into columns (also see Taylor columns) aligned with the rotation axis. Induction or generation of magnetic field...
134. ...s supplied by the Coriolis effect caused by the rotation of the Earth. The Coriolis force tends to organize fluid motions and electric currents into columns (also see Taylor columns) aligned with the **rotation** axis. Induction or generation of magnetic field is described by the induction equation: formula_1 where is velocity, is magnetic field, is time, and formula_2 is the magnetic diffusivity with formula...
135. ...cal orbit. It is theorized that the Moon once had a magnetic field, based on evidence from magnetized lunar rocks, due to its short-lived closer distance to Earth creating tidal heating. An orbit and **rotation** of a planet helps provide a liquid core, and supplements kinetic energy that supports a dynamo action. In kinematic dynamo theory the velocity field is "prescribed", instead of being a dynamic variab...
136. ..., it is not clear why this term should be positive. A simple argument can be based on consideration of net effects. To create the magnetic field, the net electric current must wrap around the axis of **rotation** of the planet. In that case, for the term to be positive, the net flow of conducting matter must be towards the axis of rotation. The diagram only shows a net flow from the poles to the equator. Howe...
137. ...magnetic field, the net electric current must wrap around the axis of rotation of the planet. In that case, for the term to be positive, the net flow of conducting matter must be towards the axis of **rotation**. The diagram only shows a net flow from the poles to the equator. However mass conservation requires an additional flow from the equator toward the poles. If that flow was along the axis of rotation,...
138. ...rotation. The diagram only shows a net flow from the poles to the equator. However mass conservation requires an additional flow from the equator toward the poles. If that flow was along the axis of **rotation**, that implies the circulation would be completed by a flow from the ones shown towards the axis of rotation, producing the desired effect. The above formula for the rate of conversion of kinetic ener...
139. ...es an additional flow from the equator toward the poles. If that flow was along the axis of rotation, that implies the circulation would be completed by a flow from the ones shown towards the axis of **rotation**, producing the desired effect. The above formula for the rate of conversion of kinetic energy to magnetic energy, is equivalent to a rate of work done by a force of formula_31 on the outer core matte...
140. ...ulated the existence of rotating magnetic fields using a rotating copper disk and a needle, termed “Arago's rotations.” English experimenters Charles Babbage and John Herschel found they could induce **rotation** in Arago's copper disk by spinning a horseshoe magnet under it, with English scientist Michael Faraday later attributing the effect to electromagnetic induction. In 1879, English physicist Walter Bai...
141. ...ich are short circuited and in which the changing flux generated by the field poles induce a current. The flux generated by the armature current reacts upon the field poles and the armature is set in **rotation** in a definite direction. A symmetric rotating magnetic field can be produced with as few as two polar wound coils driven at 90-degree phasing. However, three sets of coils are nearly always used, bec...
142. ...mera for SPECT image acquisition while the patient remains on the table. To acquire SPECT images, the gamma camera is rotated around the patient. Projections are acquired at defined points during the **rotation**, typically every 3–6 degrees. In most cases, a full 360-degree rotation is used to obtain an optimal reconstruction. The time taken to obtain each projection is also variable, but 15–20 seconds is ty...
143. ...To acquire SPECT images, the gamma camera is rotated around the patient. Projections are acquired at defined points during the rotation, typically every 3–6 degrees. In most cases, a full 360-degree **rotation** is used to obtain an optimal reconstruction. The time taken to obtain each projection is also variable, but 15–20 seconds is typical. This gives a total scan time of 15–20 minutes. Multi-headed gamma...
144. ...elerate acquisition. For example, a dual-headed camera can be used with heads spaced 180 degrees apart, allowing two projections to be acquired simultaneously, with each head requiring 180 degrees of **rotation**. Triple-head cameras with 120-degree spacing are also used. Cardiac gated acquisitions are possible with SPECT, just as with planar imaging techniques such as multi gated acquisition scan (MUGA). Tri...
145. ...slice. This is a type of path integral, it is the sum over all spin histories. A path integral can be rewritten as a Hamiltonian evolution. The Hamiltonian steps through time by performing a unitary **rotation** between time "t" and time "t" + Δ"t": formula_170 The product of the U matrices, one after the other, is the total time evolution operator, which is the path integral we started with. formula_171 whe...
146. ...about 1 cm of a discharge point. A pinwheel, with radial metal spokes and pointed tips bent to point along the circumference of a circle, can be made to rotate if energized by a corona discharge; the **rotation** is due to the differential electric attraction between the metal spokes and the space charge shield region that surrounds the tips. Dosimetry Radiation dosimetry in the fields of health physics and r...
147. ...olecule and are typically found in the visible and ultraviolet region. X-ray absorptions are associated with the excitation of inner shell electrons in atoms. These changes can also be combined (e.g. **rotation**–vibration transitions), leading to new absorption lines at the combined energy of the two changes. The energy associated with the quantum mechanical change primarily determines the frequency of the a...
148. ...sc is much more like using a diskette drive than a CD-RW drive. During a read cycle, the laser is operated at a lower power setting, emitting polarized light. The reflected light has a change in Kerr **rotation** and Kerr ellipticity which is measured by an analyzer and corresponds to either a logical 0 or 1. The 130 mm drives have been available in capacities from 650 MB to 9.2 GB. However, this is split in...
149. ...onance (ECR) is a phenomenon observed in plasma physics, condensed matter physics, and accelerator physics. It happens when the frequency of incident radiation coincides with the natural frequency of **rotation** of electrons in magnetic fields. A free electron in a static and uniform magnetic field will move in a circle due to the Lorentz force. The circular motion may be superimposed with a uniform axial mo...
150. ...xplained in his 1911 Rede Lecture that his appreciation of the scaling issue led to his 1884 breakthrough on the compound steam turbine: It seemed to me that moderate surface velocities and speeds of **rotation** were essential if the turbine motor was to receive general acceptance as a prime mover. I therefore decided to split up the fall in pressure of the steam into small fractional expansions over a large...
151. ...urface of the water. The surfaces of constant pressure are planes parallel to the surface, which can be characterized as the plane of zero pressure. If the liquid has a vertical vortex (whose axis of **rotation** is perpendicular to the surface), then the vortex causes a depression in the pressure field. The surface of the liquid inside the vortex is pulled downwards as are any surfaces of equal pressure, whi...
152. ...the external flux to avoid the conductor. French physicist Léon Foucault (1819–1868) is credited with having discovered eddy currents. In September 1855, he discovered that the force required for the **rotation** of a copper disc becomes greater when it is made to rotate with its rim between the poles of a magnet, the disc at the same time becoming heated by the eddy current induced in the metal. The first us...
153. ...agnets that stably levitate so there may be other reasons not discussed here why it is not possible to maintain permanent magnets in orientations antiparallel to magnetic fields (at least not without **rotation**—see spin-stabilized magnetic levitation. Earnshaw's theorem was originally formulated for electrostatics (point charges) to show that there is no stable configuration of a collection of point charges...
154. ...sma is a plasma which thermal state can be approximated by more than one temperature for the different degrees of freedom of the plasma.  The degrees of freedom refer to translation (kinetic energy), **rotation**, vibration of each particle type.  Examples of anisothermal plasmas can be found among low-pressure plasmas that are excited by high frequency electric fields, see frequency classification of plasmas...
155. ...would not work well at a frequency of, say, 133 Hz. There is a fixed relationship between the number of magnetic poles in the induction motor field, the frequency of the alternating current, and the **rotation** speed; so, a given standard speed limits the choice of frequency (and the reverse). Once AC electric motors became common, it was important to standardize frequency for compatibility with the custome...
156. ...very large ratings (thousands of kilowatts) these were expensive, inefficient, and unreliable. After about 1906, generators driven directly by steam turbines favored higher frequencies. The steadier **rotation** speed of high-speed machines allowed for satisfactory operation of commutators in rotary converters. The synchronous speed N in RPM is calculated using the formula, where f is the frequency in hertz...
157. ...ised admittance until a later transformation back to normalised impedance is performed. The table below shows examples of normalised impedances and their equivalent normalised admittances obtained by **rotation** of the point through 180°. Again, these may be obtained either by calculation or using a Smith chart as shown, converting between the normalised impedance and normalised admittances planes. The choic...
158. ...s within the basal plane. For this, higher-order terms are needed, and these depend on the crystal system (hexagonal, tetragonal or rhombohedral). In a hexagonal system the axis is an axis of sixfold **rotation** symmetry. The energy density is, to fourth  order, The uniaxial anisotropy is mainly determined by these first two terms. Depending on the values and , there are four different kinds of anisotropy (i...
159. ...changes in current flow. The membrane currents giving rise to hyperpolarization are either an increase in outward current or a decrease in inward current. Faraday effect The Faraday effect or Faraday **rotation**, sometimes referred to as the magneto-optic Faraday effect (MOFE), is a physical magneto-optical phenomenon. The Faraday effect causes a polarization rotation which is proportional to the projection...
160. ...day effect The Faraday effect or Faraday rotation, sometimes referred to as the magneto-optic Faraday effect (MOFE), is a physical magneto-optical phenomenon. The Faraday effect causes a polarization **rotation** which is proportional to the projection of the magnetic field along the direction of the light propagation. Formally, it is a special case of gyroelectromagnetism obtained when the dielectric permitt...
161. ...e than the other, causing a phase difference between the left- and right-polarized beam. When the two beams are added after this phase shift, the result is again a linearly polarized beam, but with a **rotation** of the polarization vector. The direction of polarization rotation depends on the properties of the material through which the light is shone. A full treatment would have to take into account the eff...
162. ...right-polarized beam. When the two beams are added after this phase shift, the result is again a linearly polarized beam, but with a rotation of the polarization vector. The direction of polarization **rotation** depends on the properties of the material through which the light is shone. A full treatment would have to take into account the effect of the external and radiation-induced fields on the wave functi...
163. ...hether the right- or left-circular polarization is slowed more. Formally, the magnetic permeability is treated as a non-diagonal tensor as expressed by the equation: The relation between the angle of **rotation** of the polarization and the magnetic field in a transparent material is: where A positive Verdet constant corresponds to L-rotation (anticlockwise) when the direction of propagation is parallel to th...
164. ...sor as expressed by the equation: The relation between the angle of rotation of the polarization and the magnetic field in a transparent material is: where A positive Verdet constant corresponds to L-**rotation** (anticlockwise) when the direction of propagation is parallel to the magnetic field and to R-rotation (clockwise) when the direction of propagation is anti-parallel. Thus, if a ray of light is passed...
165. ...he magnetic field in a transparent material is: where A positive Verdet constant corresponds to L-rotation (anticlockwise) when the direction of propagation is parallel to the magnetic field and to R-**rotation** (clockwise) when the direction of propagation is anti-parallel. Thus, if a ray of light is passed through a material and reflected back through it, the rotation doubles. Some materials, such as terbi...
166. ...arallel to the magnetic field and to R-rotation (clockwise) when the direction of propagation is anti-parallel. Thus, if a ray of light is passed through a material and reflected back through it, the **rotation** doubles. Some materials, such as terbium gallium garnet (TGG) have extremely high Verdet constants (≈ for 632 nm light). By placing a rod of this material in a strong magnetic field, Faraday rotation...
167. ...rotation doubles. Some materials, such as terbium gallium garnet (TGG) have extremely high Verdet constants (≈ for 632 nm light). By placing a rod of this material in a strong magnetic field, Faraday **rotation** angles of over 0.78 rad (45°) can be achieved. This allows the construction of Faraday rotators, which are the principal component of Faraday isolators, devices which transmit light in only one direc...
168. ...an be characterized as a difference in the refractive index seen by the two circularly polarized propagation modes. Hence, in contrast to the Faraday effect in solids or liquids, interstellar Faraday **rotation** (β) has a simple dependence on the wavelength of light (λ), namely: where the overall strength of the effect is characterized by RM, the rotation measure. This in turn depends on the axial component...
169. ...day effect in solids or liquids, interstellar Faraday rotation (β) has a simple dependence on the wavelength of light (λ), namely: where the overall strength of the effect is characterized by RM, the **rotation** measure. This in turn depends on the axial component of the interstellar magnetic field "B", and the number density of electrons "n", both of which vary along the propagation path. In Gaussian cgs un...
170. .... This in turn depends on the axial component of the interstellar magnetic field "B", and the number density of electrons "n", both of which vary along the propagation path. In Gaussian cgs units the **rotation** measure is given by: or in SI units: where The integral is taken over the entire path from the source to the observer. Faraday rotation is an important tool in astronomy for the measurement of magnet...
171. ...hich vary along the propagation path. In Gaussian cgs units the rotation measure is given by: or in SI units: where The integral is taken over the entire path from the source to the observer. Faraday **rotation** is an important tool in astronomy for the measurement of magnetic fields, which can be estimated from rotation measures given a knowledge of the electron number density. In the case of radio pulsars,...
172. ...here The integral is taken over the entire path from the source to the observer. Faraday rotation is an important tool in astronomy for the measurement of magnetic fields, which can be estimated from **rotation** measures given a knowledge of the electron number density. In the case of radio pulsars, the dispersion caused by these electrons results in a time delay between pulses received at different waveleng...
173. ...time delay between pulses received at different wavelengths, which can be measured in terms of the electron column density, or dispersion measure. A measurement of both the dispersion measure and the **rotation** measure therefore yields the weighted mean of the magnetic field along the line of sight. The same information can be obtained from objects other than pulsars, if the dispersion measure can be estima...
174. ...tained from objects other than pulsars, if the dispersion measure can be estimated based on reasonable guesses about the propagation path length and typical electron densities. In particular, Faraday **rotation** measurements of polarized radio signals from extragalactic radio sources occulted by the solar corona can be used to estimate both the electron density distribution and the direction and strength of...
175. ...oronal plasma. Radio waves passing through the Earth's ionosphere are likewise subject to the Faraday effect. The ionosphere consists of a plasma containing free electrons which contribute to Faraday **rotation** according to the above equation, whereas the positive ions are relatively massive and have little influence. In conjunction with the Earth's magnetic field, rotation of the polarization of radio wave...
176. ...trons which contribute to Faraday rotation according to the above equation, whereas the positive ions are relatively massive and have little influence. In conjunction with the Earth's magnetic field, **rotation** of the polarization of radio waves thus occurs. Since the density of electrons in the ionosphere varies greatly on a daily basis, as well as over the sunspot cycle, the magnitude of the effect varies...
177. ...tude of the effect varies. However the effect is always proportional to the square of the wavelength, so even at the UHF television frequency of 500 MHz (λ = 60 cm), there can be more than a complete **rotation** of the axis of polarization. A consequence is that although most radio transmitting antennas are either vertically or horizontally polarized, the polarization of a medium or short wave signal after r...
178. ...used by satellite communications, the transmitted polarization is maintained between the satellite and the ground. Due to spin-orbit coupling, undoped GaAs single crystal exhibits much larger Faraday **rotation** than glass (SiO). Considering the atomic arrangement is different along the (100) and (110) plane, one might think the Faraday rotation is polarization dependent. However, experimental work revealed...
179. ...pling, undoped GaAs single crystal exhibits much larger Faraday rotation than glass (SiO). Considering the atomic arrangement is different along the (100) and (110) plane, one might think the Faraday **rotation** is polarization dependent. However, experimental work revealed an immeasurable anisotropy in the wavelength range from 880–1,600 nm. Based on the large Faraday rotation, one might be able to use GaAs...
180. ...e, one might think the Faraday rotation is polarization dependent. However, experimental work revealed an immeasurable anisotropy in the wavelength range from 880–1,600 nm. Based on the large Faraday **rotation**, one might be able to use GaAs to calibrate the B field of the terahertz electromagnetic wave which requires very fast response time. Around the band gap, the Faraday effect shows resonance behavior....
181. ...cy domain. The combination of the two is described by gyroelectromagnetic media, for which gyroelectricity and gyromagnetism (Faraday effect) may occur at the same time. In organic materials, Faraday **rotation** is typically small, with a Verdet constant in the visible wavelength region on the order of a few hundred degrees per Tesla per meter, decreasing proportional to formula_8 in this region. While the V...
182. ...e around electronic transitions in the molecule, the associated light absorption makes most organic materials bad candidates for applications. There are however also isolated reports of large Faraday **rotation** in organic liquid crystals without associated absorption. In 2009 γ-FeO-Au core-shell nanostructures were synthesized to integrate magnetic (γ-FeO) and plasmonic (Au) properties into one composite. F...
183. ...anic liquid crystals without associated absorption. In 2009 γ-FeO-Au core-shell nanostructures were synthesized to integrate magnetic (γ-FeO) and plasmonic (Au) properties into one composite. Faraday **rotation** with and without the plasmonic materials was tested and rotation enhancement under 530 nm light irradiation was observed. Researchers claim that the magnitude of the magneto-optical enhancement is go...
184. ...-Au core-shell nanostructures were synthesized to integrate magnetic (γ-FeO) and plasmonic (Au) properties into one composite. Faraday rotation with and without the plasmonic materials was tested and **rotation** enhancement under 530 nm light irradiation was observed. Researchers claim that the magnitude of the magneto-optical enhancement is governed primarily by the spectral overlap of the magneto-optical t...
185. ...electronic transitions of the magnetic material is enhanced, resulting in a larger difference between the velocities of the right- and left-hand circularized polarization, therefore enhancing Faraday **rotation**. Resonator A resonator is a device or system that exhibits resonance or resonant behavior. That is, it naturally oscillates with greater amplitude at some frequencies, called resonant frequencies, th...
186. ...e of plane of the rods to the other, as shown schematically in the figure. This arrangement allows the field to effectively be turned on and off above or below the plane of the rods, depending on the **rotation** of the rods. Such a device makes an efficient mechanical magnetic latch requiring no power. A detailed study of this arrangement has shown that each rod is subject to a strong torque from its neighbo...
187. ...be nested, and by rotating one cylinder relative to the other, cancellation of the field and adjustment of the direction can be achieved. As the outside field of a cylinder is quite low, the relative **rotation** does not require strong forces. In the ideal case of infinitely long cylinders, no force would be required to rotate a cylinder with respect to the other. If the two-dimensional magnetic distribution...
188. ...strong function of wavelength. At 632.8 nm, the Verdet constant for TGG is reported to be , whereas at 1064 nm it falls to . This behavior means that the devices manufactured with a certain degree of **rotation** at one wavelength will produce much less rotation at longer wavelengths. Many Faraday rotators and isolators are adjustable by varying the degree to which the active TGG rod is inserted into the magn...
189. ...rdet constant for TGG is reported to be , whereas at 1064 nm it falls to . This behavior means that the devices manufactured with a certain degree of rotation at one wavelength will produce much less **rotation** at longer wavelengths. Many Faraday rotators and isolators are adjustable by varying the degree to which the active TGG rod is inserted into the magnetic field of the device. In this way, the device...
190. ...vice can be tuned for use with a range of lasers within the design range of the device. Truly broadband sources (such as ultrashort-pulse lasers and the tunable vibronic lasers) will not see the same **rotation** across the whole wavelength band. Cunife Cunife is an alloy of copper (Cu), nickel (Ni), iron (Fe), and in some cases cobalt (Co). The alloy has the same linear coefficient of expansion as certain ty...
191. ...te circular polarizations, is distinct from linear birefringence (or simply birefringence, when the term is not further specified) which also transforms a wave's polarization but not through a simple **rotation**. The polarization state is rotated in proportion to the applied longitudinal magnetic field according to: where formula_2 is the angle of rotation (in radians),  formula_3 is the magnetic flux densit...
192. ...forms a wave's polarization but not through a simple rotation. The polarization state is rotated in proportion to the applied longitudinal magnetic field according to: where formula_2 is the angle of **rotation** (in radians),  formula_3 is the magnetic flux density in the direction of propagation (in teslas),  formula_4 is the length of the path (in metres) where the light and magnetic field interact, and  f...
193. ...t for the material. This empirical proportionality constant (in units of radians per tesla per metre, rad/(T·m)) varies with wavelength and temperature and is tabulated for various materials. Faraday **rotation** is a rare example of non-reciprocal optical propagation. Although reciprocity is a basic tenet of electromagnetics, the "apparent" non-reciprocity in this case is a result of not considering the stat...
194. ...though reciprocity is a basic tenet of electromagnetics, the "apparent" non-reciprocity in this case is a result of not considering the static magnetic field but only the resulting device. Unlike the **rotation** in an optically active medium such as a sugar solution, reflecting a polarized beam back through the same Faraday rotator does "not" undo the polarization change the beam underwent in its forward pas...
195. ...ough the same Faraday rotator does "not" undo the polarization change the beam underwent in its forward pass through the medium, but actually doubles it. Then by implementing a Faraday rotator with a **rotation** of 45°, inadvertent downstream reflections from a linearly polarized source will return with the polarization rotated by 90° and can be simply blocked by a polarizer; this is the basis of optical iso...
196. ...blocked by a polarizer; this is the basis of optical isolators used to prevent undesired reflections from disrupting an upstream optical system (particularly a laser). The difference between Faraday **rotation** and other polarization rotation mechanisms is as follows. In an optically active medium, the polarization direction twists or rotates in the same sense (e.g. like a right-handed screw) for either dir...
197. ...the basis of optical isolators used to prevent undesired reflections from disrupting an upstream optical system (particularly a laser). The difference between Faraday rotation and other polarization **rotation** mechanisms is as follows. In an optically active medium, the polarization direction twists or rotates in the same sense (e.g. like a right-handed screw) for either direction, thus in the case of a pl...
198. ...n an optically active medium, the polarization direction twists or rotates in the same sense (e.g. like a right-handed screw) for either direction, thus in the case of a plane reflection the original **rotation** is reversed, returning the incident beam to its original polarization. On the other hand, in a Faraday rotator, passage of light in opposite directions experience a magnetic field in "opposite" direc...
199. ...olarization. On the other hand, in a Faraday rotator, passage of light in opposite directions experience a magnetic field in "opposite" directions relative to the propagation direction, and since the **rotation** (relative to the direction of propagation) is determined by the magnetic field (see above equation), that rotation is opposite between the two propagating directions. Electrification Electrification...
200. ...field in "opposite" directions relative to the propagation direction, and since the rotation (relative to the direction of propagation) is determined by the magnetic field (see above equation), that **rotation** is opposite between the two propagating directions. Electrification Electrification is the process of powering by electricity and, in many contexts, the introduction of such power by changing over fr...
201. ...crements. The main sources of measurement errors are magnetic impurities in the sensor, errors in the measurement of the frequency and ferrous material on the operator and the instruments, as well as **rotation** of the sensor as a measurement is taken. Portable instruments are also limited by sensor volume (weight) and power consumption. PPMs work in field gradients up to 3,000 nT m which is adequate from mo...
202. ...outh to avoid a solar module producing a shadow on a lower one. Instead of an exactly vertical tower one can choose a tower with an axis directed to the polar star, meaning that it is parallel to the **rotation** axis of the Earth. In this case the angle between the axis and the Sun is always larger than 66 degrees. During a day it is only necessary to turn the panels around this axis to follow the Sun. Insta...
203. ...pendency. The attraction experienced by ferromagnets is non-linear and much stronger so that it is easily observed, for instance, in magnets on one's refrigerator. For gyromagnetic media (see Faraday **rotation**) the magnetic permeability response to an alternating electromagnetic field in the microwave frequency domain is treated as a non-diagonal tensor expressed by: The following table should be used with...
204. ...stems rely on changing magnetic fields to create currents, which can give passive stability. Because maglev vehicles essentially fly, stabilisation of pitch, roll, and yaw is required. In addition to **rotation**, surge (forward and backward motions), sway (sideways motion), or heave (up and down motions) can be problematic. Superconducting magnets on a train above a track made out of a permanent magnet lock...
205. ...ds to resist self-demagnetisation, which occurs when the magnetic domains repel each other. Magnetic domains written too close together in a weakly magnetisable material will degrade over time due to **rotation** of the magnetic moment of one or more domains to cancel out these forces. The domains rotate sideways to a halfway position that weakens the readability of the domain and relieves the magnetic stress...
206. ...with ferromagnetic ordering. Other magnetic orderings, such as spin glass ordering, also exhibit this phenomenon. The phenomenon of hysteresis in ferromagnetic materials is the result of two effects: **rotation** of magnetization and changes in size or number of magnetic domains. In general, the magnetization varies (in direction but not magnitude) across a magnet, but in sufficiently small magnets, it doesn'...
207. ...sizes of the domains. Because the domains are not magnetized in the same direction, the magnetic moment per unit volume is smaller than it would be in a single-domain magnet; but domain walls involve **rotation** of only a small part of the magnetization, so it is much easier to change the magnetic moment. The magnetization can also change by addition or subtraction of domains (called "nucleation" and "denucl...
208. ...1994 through 1999. The toy top is essentially a permanent magnetic ring and corresponding magnetic base plate with a ring or alternate geometric configuration. Functional parameters, such as the top **rotation** rate or top weighting, are stringent. Employing principles of the magnetic field and gyroscopic stabilization, the Levitron top induces levitation through a series of interactive steps. The levitated...
209. ...ing, are stringent. Employing principles of the magnetic field and gyroscopic stabilization, the Levitron top induces levitation through a series of interactive steps. The levitated top's stabilizing **rotation** undergoes natural, gradual slowing, so that the levitation phenomenon fails within four minutes unless external power is supplied to sustain rotation. To levitate the top, a plastic plate is placed o...
210. ...nteractive steps. The levitated top's stabilizing rotation undergoes natural, gradual slowing, so that the levitation phenomenon fails within four minutes unless external power is supplied to sustain **rotation**. To levitate the top, a plastic plate is placed on top of the magnetic base, and the top is spun on the plate at 25–50 rotations per second (1500–3000 rpm). If too slow, the top falls over and slides...
211. ...and power source interruptions also alter the delicate equilibrium necessary to keep the top stable. More expensive laboratory versions can sustain a levitating top indefinitely by sustaining the top **rotation**, actively compensating for aberrations in rotation. The makers of the Levitron have developed a "Perpetuator", which sits under the Levitron and sends out an additional magnetic pulse. The additional...
212. ...ate equilibrium necessary to keep the top stable. More expensive laboratory versions can sustain a levitating top indefinitely by sustaining the top rotation, actively compensating for aberrations in **rotation**. The makers of the Levitron have developed a "Perpetuator", which sits under the Levitron and sends out an additional magnetic pulse. The additional force nudges the spinning top enough to maintain a...
213. ...tations per second times the number of spark electrodes on the wheel. It could produce spark rates up to several thousand hertz, and the rate could be adjusted by changing the speed of the motor. The **rotation** of the wheel was usually synchronized to the AC sine wave so the moving electrode passed by the stationary one at the peak of the sine wave, initiating the spark when the capacitor was fully charged,...
214. ...the disc in proportion to the product of the instantaneous current and instantaneous voltage. A permanent magnet acts as an eddy current brake, exerting an opposing force proportional to the speed of **rotation** of the disc. The equilibrium between these two opposing forces results in the disc rotating at a speed proportional to the power or rate of energy usage. The disc drives a register mechanism which co...
215. ...a magnetic lens contain a spiraling component, i.e. the charged particles spiral around the optical axis. As a consequence, the image formed by a magnetic lens is rotated relative to the object. This **rotation** is absent for an electrostatic lens.  The spatial extent of the magnetic field can be controlled by using an iron (or other magnetically soft material) magnetic circuit. This makes it possible to des...
216. ...dayside magnetopause) the Alfvén wave that propagates into the inflow on higher-density side (in the case of the magnetopause the denser magnetosheath) has a lower propagation speed and so the field **rotation** increasingly becomes at that RD as the field line propagates away from the reconnection site: hence the magnetopause current sheet becomes increasingly concentrated in the outer, slower, RD.  Simulat...
217. ...his effect is weak but independent of temperature. A substance whose only magnetic response is diamagnetism is called a diamagnet. Paramagnetism is a weak positive response to a magnetic field due to **rotation** of electron spins. Paramagnetism occurs in certain kinds of iron-bearing minerals because the iron contains an unpaired electron in one of their shells (see Hund's rules). Some are paramagnetic down...
218. ...the three supply windings offline, albeit at 57.7% of total capacity. Harmonic current in the neutral may become very large if nonlinear loads are connected. In a star (wye) connected topology, with **rotation** sequence L1 - L2 - L3, the time-varying instantaneous voltages can be calculated for each phase A,C,B respectively by: where: The below images demonstrate how a system of six wires delivering three p...
219. ...this way, able to cut profiles from metal plate up to 150 mm thick. Once again, a process for producing flat profiles from sheet or plate metal, however with the introduction of an additional axis of **rotation**, the cutting head of a CNC plasma cutting machine can tilt whilst being taken through a conventional 2-dimensional cutting path. The result of this is cut edges at an angle other than 90 degrees to t...
220. ...larized monomers, which contain atoms with partial charges and generate dipole moments, shown in Figure 2. When an electrical field is applied, a force is applied to each partial charge, which causes **rotation** of the whole polymer unit. This rotation causes electrostrictive strain and deformation of the polymer. Main-chain liquid crystalline polymers have mesogenic groups linked to each other by a flexible...
221. ...h partial charges and generate dipole moments, shown in Figure 2. When an electrical field is applied, a force is applied to each partial charge, which causes rotation of the whole polymer unit. This **rotation** causes electrostrictive strain and deformation of the polymer. Main-chain liquid crystalline polymers have mesogenic groups linked to each other by a flexible spacer. The mesogens within a backbone f...
222. ...ntally rotated by 90°, and salamanders were placed in cross-shaped structures (one corridor along the new north–south axis, one along the new east–west axis). The salamanders responded to the field's **rotation**. Red-spotted newts ("Notophthalmus viridescens") respond to drastic increases in water temperature by heading for land. The behaviour is disrupted if the magnetic field is experimentally altered, sho...
223. ...occurs parallel to the axis of spin. Barnett was motivated by a prediction by Owen Richardson in 1908, later named the Einstein–de Haas effect, that magnetizing a ferromagnet can induce a mechanical **rotation**. He instead looked for the opposite effect, that is, that spinning a ferromagnet could change its magnetization. He established the effect with a long series of experiments between 1908 and 1915. Gar...
224. ...charge to create and accumulate more charges, and repeats this process for as long as the machine is in action. Wimshurst machines are composed of: two insulated disks attached to pulleys of opposite **rotation**, the disks have small conductive (usually metal) plates on their outward-facing sides; two double-ended brushes that serve as charge stabilizers and are also the place where induction happens, creati...
225. ...d through the center. The halves are joined together with a non-ferrous material such as brass or aluminium. A round permanent magnet is inserted into the bored hole and a handle is attached to allow **rotation** of the magnet. This act of rotation changes the orientation of the magnetic field. In the "off" position, the poles are oriented towards the non-ferrous core. The iron blocks act as keepers by bridgi...
226. ...joined together with a non-ferrous material such as brass or aluminium. A round permanent magnet is inserted into the bored hole and a handle is attached to allow rotation of the magnet. This act of **rotation** changes the orientation of the magnetic field. In the "off" position, the poles are oriented towards the non-ferrous core. The iron blocks act as keepers by bridging between both poles. In the "on" p...
227. ...t formula_1 Since the fields are spherically symmetric, they depend only on the radial distance in spherical coordinates. The field is purely radial as non-radial components cannot be invariant under **rotation**, which would be necessary for symmetry. Therefore, we can rewrite the fields as formula_2 We find that the curls must be zero, since, formula_3 Moreover, we can substitute into the source-free Maxwel...
228. ...epresents their rotations are zero formula_14 By the definition of the Lie derivative as the directional derivative along formula_13 formula_16. Therefore, formula_6 is equivalent to formula_18 under **rotation** and we can write for some function formula_19 formula_20. Because the product of the components of the vector are just its length formula_21. And substituting back into our equation and rewriting for...
229. ...easy axis direction. In this case, all of the domain walls are at 180 degrees. When there are no impurities, the reversal process of the bulk magnet is equivalent to lone-domain motes, where coherent **rotation** is the dominant mechanism. However, due to the imperfection of fabricating, impurities may be introduced in the magnets, which form nuclei. In this case, because the impurities may have lower anisotr...
230. ...separation. Qubit energy level separation is frequently adjusted by controlling a dedicated bias current line, providing a "knob" to fine tune the qubit parameters. A single qubit gate is achieved by **rotation** in the Bloch sphere. Rotations between different energy levels of a single qubit are induced by microwave pulses sent to an antenna or transmission line coupled to the qubit with a frequency resonant...
231. ...frequency resonant with the energy separation between levels. Individual qubits may be addressed by a dedicated transmission line or by a shared one if the other qubits are off resonance. The axis of **rotation** is set by quadrature amplitude modulation of microwave pulse, while pulse length determines the angle of rotation. More formally (following the notation of ) for a driving signal of frequency formula...
232. ...ansmission line or by a shared one if the other qubits are off resonance. The axis of rotation is set by quadrature amplitude modulation of microwave pulse, while pulse length determines the angle of **rotation**. More formally (following the notation of ) for a driving signal of frequency formula_7, a driven qubit Hamiltonian in a rotating wave approximation is where formula_9 is the qubit resonance and form...
233. ...) for a driving signal of frequency formula_7, a driven qubit Hamiltonian in a rotating wave approximation is where formula_9 is the qubit resonance and formula_10 are Pauli matrices. To implement a **rotation** about the formula_11 axis, one can set formula_12 and apply a microwave pulse at frequency formula_13 for time formula_14. The resulting transformation is This is exactly the rotation operator formul...
234. ...To implement a rotation about the formula_11 axis, one can set formula_12 and apply a microwave pulse at frequency formula_13 for time formula_14. The resulting transformation is This is exactly the **rotation** operator formula_16 by angle formula_17 about the formula_11 axis in the Bloch sphere. A rotation about the formula_19 axis can be implemented in a similar way. Showing the two rotation operators is...
235. ...ulse at frequency formula_13 for time formula_14. The resulting transformation is This is exactly the rotation operator formula_16 by angle formula_17 about the formula_11 axis in the Bloch sphere. A **rotation** about the formula_19 axis can be implemented in a similar way. Showing the two rotation operators is sufficient for satisfying universality as every single qubit unitary operator formula_20 may be pr...
236. ...s exactly the rotation operator formula_16 by angle formula_17 about the formula_11 axis in the Bloch sphere. A rotation about the formula_19 axis can be implemented in a similar way. Showing the two **rotation** operators is sufficient for satisfying universality as every single qubit unitary operator formula_20 may be presented as formula_21 (up to a global phase which is physically inconsequential) by a pr...
237. ...ism uses two qubits and a bus, each tuned to different energy level separations. Applying microwave excitation to the first qubit, with a frequency resonant with the second qubit, causes a formula_26 **rotation** of the second qubit. Rotation direction depends on the state of the first qubit, allowing a controlled phase gate construction. Following the notation of, the drive Hamiltonian describing the excited...
238. ...each tuned to different energy level separations. Applying microwave excitation to the first qubit, with a frequency resonant with the second qubit, causes a formula_26 rotation of the second qubit. **Rotation** direction depends on the state of the first qubit, allowing a controlled phase gate construction. Following the notation of, the drive Hamiltonian describing the excited system through the first qubi...
239. ...sonator, formula_32 is qubit detuning, formula_33 is stray (unwanted) coupling between qubits, and formula_34 is the reduced Planck constant. The time integral over formula_28 determines the angle of **rotation**. Unwanted rotations from the first and third terms of the Hamiltonian can be compensated for with single qubit operations. The remaining component, combined with single qubit rotations, forms a basis...
240. ...h as electrons) about some other mass, or about themselves. In classical mechanics, an object's orbital motion is characterized by its orbital angular momentum (the angular momentum about the axis of **rotation**) and spin angular momentum, which is the object's angular momentum about its own center of mass. In quantum mechanics there are analogous orbital and spin angular momenta which describe the orbital m...
241. ...ormula_5 depend on the value of formula_6. The simplest physical model of electron behavior in an atom is an electron in hydrogen. For a particle to remain in orbit, it must be bound to its center of **rotation** by some radial electric potential. In this system, electrons orbiting an atomic nucleus are bound to the nucleus via the Coulomb potential, given by formula_12. Classically, the energy of the electro...
242. ...ed to higher order phase systems. Physically, in a three phase system, a positive sequence set of currents produces a normal rotating field, a negative sequence set produces a field with the opposite **rotation**, and the zero sequence set produces a field that oscillates but does not rotate between phase windings. Since these effects can be detected physically with sequence filters, the mathematical tool bec...
243. ...ctively to the zero, positive, and negative sequence components. The sequence components differ only by their phase angles, which are symmetrical and so are formula_3 radians or 120°. Define a phasor **rotation** operator formula_4, which rotates a phasor vector counterclockwise by 120 degrees when multiplied by it: Note that formula_6 so that formula_7. The zero sequence components have equal magnitude and a...
244. ...erved a somewhat asymmetric absorption line with a maximum at 24 GHz and a full width at half height of 12 GHz. In the field of molecular physics, microwave spectroscopy is commonly used to probe the **rotation** of molecules. In the field of condensed matter physics, microwave spectroscopy is used to detect dynamic phenomena of either charges or spins at GHz frequencies (corresponding to nanosecond time scal...
245. ...ough the rotor area. (The generated energy will be approximately proportional to the cosine of the yaw error). When the windmills of the 18th century included the feature of rotor orientation via the **rotation** of the nacelle, an actuation mechanism able to provide that turning moment was necessary. Initially the windmills used ropes or chains extending from the nacelle to the ground in order to allow the r...
246. ...n of the nacelle, an actuation mechanism able to provide that turning moment was necessary. Initially the windmills used ropes or chains extending from the nacelle to the ground in order to allow the **rotation** of the nacelle by means of human or animal power. Another historical innovation was the fantail. This device was actually an auxiliary rotor equipped with plurality of blades and located downwind of...
247. ...e fantail would rotate thus transmitting its mechanical power through a gearbox (and via a gear-rim-to-pinion mesh) to the tower of the windmill. The effect of the aforementioned transmission was the **rotation** of the nacelle towards the direction of the wind, where the fantail would not face the wind thus stop turning (i.e. the nacelle would stop to its new position). The modern yaw drives, even though ele...
248. ...life-span of the wind turbine (approx. 20 years). Most of the yaw drive gearboxes have input to output ratios in the range of 2000:1 in order to produce the enormous turning moments required for the **rotation** of the wind turbine nacelle. The gear-rim and the pinions of the yaw drives are the components that finally transmit the turning moment from the yaw drives to the tower in order to turn the nacelle o...
249. ...a radio frequency (RF) alternating electric field, or radio wave or microwave electromagnetic radiation heats a dielectric material. At higher frequencies, this heating is caused by molecular dipole **rotation** within the dielectric. Molecular rotation occurs in materials containing polar molecules having an electrical dipole moment, with the consequence that they will align themselves in an electromagnetic...
250. ...ic field, or radio wave or microwave electromagnetic radiation heats a dielectric material. At higher frequencies, this heating is caused by molecular dipole rotation within the dielectric. Molecular **rotation** occurs in materials containing polar molecules having an electrical dipole moment, with the consequence that they will align themselves in an electromagnetic field. If the field is oscillating, as it...
251. ...etic field. If the field is oscillating, as it is in an electromagnetic wave or in a rapidly oscillating electric field, these molecules rotate continuously by aligning with it. This is called dipole **rotation**, or dipolar polarisation. As the field alternates, the molecules reverse direction. Rotating molecules push, pull, and collide with other molecules (through electrical forces), distributing the energ...
252. ...ure is related to the average kinetic energy (energy of motion) of the atoms or molecules in a material, so agitating the molecules in this way increases the temperature of the material. Thus, dipole **rotation** is a mechanism by which energy in the form of electromagnetic radiation can raise the temperature of an object. There are also many other mechanisms by which this conversion occurs. Dipole rotation i...
253. ...e rotation is a mechanism by which energy in the form of electromagnetic radiation can raise the temperature of an object. There are also many other mechanisms by which this conversion occurs. Dipole **rotation** is the mechanism normally referred to as dielectric heating, and is most widely observable in the microwave oven where it operates most effectively on liquid water, and also, but much less so, on fat...
254. ...ave oven. In such cases, conventional far-field electromagnetic waves form (the cavity no longer acts as a pure capacitor, but rather as an antenna), and are absorbed to cause heating, but the dipole-**rotation** mechanism of heat deposition remains the same. However, microwaves are not efficient at causing the heating effects of low frequency fields that depend on slower molecular motion, such as those cause...
255. ...olve rotating slings (made of colossal carbon tube) attached to the orbital ring that dip down into the atmosphere. The tip of a given sling would reach an altitude of 13–15 km at its lowest, and its **rotation** would cause it to have near-zero tangential velocity relative to the Earth's surface below. Consequently, the sling could pick up a payload from a conventional aircraft flying at that altitude, then...
256. ...e horizon differs according to latitude. He shows how to construct a dip instrument. At the equator it is level and increases towards the poles as he has shown earlier with his terrella.  Terrestrial **rotation**. Heraclides and others held that the Earth rotates from west to east and this is supported by Copernicus (the "restorer of astronomy"), but Aristotle said otherwise. "If the rotations of the earth se...
257. ...ican System. He posits that due to the inordinate distance of the celestial spheres, if in fact the spheres exist at all, it is an absurd idea that they would rotate every 24 hours, as opposed to the **rotation** of the relatively tiny sphere of the Earth. He states, "How far away from the earth are those remotest of stars: they are beyond the reach of eye, or man's devices, or man's thought. What an absurdit...
258. ...o violate Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction, because the flux through the disc appears to be the same no matter what is rotating. Hence, the EMF is predicted to be zero in all three cases of **rotation**. The discussion below shows this viewpoint stems from an incorrect choice of surface over which to calculate the flux. The paradox appears a bit different from the lines of flux viewpoint: in Faraday...
259. ...laboratory frame) must therefore not rotate with the magnetic material (of course since it is the laboratory frame), while the effective definition of magnetic field frame or the "effective/relative **rotation** of the field" turns with no relative motion with respect to the conductive disk. Careful thought showed that, if the magnetic field was assumed to rotate with the magnet and the magnet rotated with t...
260. ...he brushes are in the laboratory frame.) This mechanism agrees with the observations involving return paths: an EMF is generated whenever the disc moves relative to the return path, regardless of the **rotation** of the magnet. In fact it was shown that so long as a current loop is used to measure induced EMFs from the motion of the disk and magnet it is not possible to tell if the magnetic field does or does...
261. ...g field or a flux line as a mathematical object. It is a different issue if you consider flux as a physical entity (see Magnetic flux quantum), or consider the effective/relative definition of motion/**rotation** of a field (see below). This note helps resolve the paradox. The Lorentz force is perpendicular to both the velocity of the electrons, which is in the plane of the disc, and to the magnetic field, wh...
262. ...cause of the current, creates a radial component of electron velocity, generating in turn its own Lorentz force component that opposes the circular motion of the electrons, tending to slow the disc's **rotation**, but the electrons retain a component of circular motion that continues to drive the current via the radial Lorentz force. The flux through the portion of the path from the brush at the rim, through...
263. ...e Figure 2. Assuming a radius "R" for the disc, a sector of disc with central angle "θ" has an area: so the rate that flux sweeps past the imaginary line is with "ω" = "dθ" / "dt" the angular rate of **rotation**. The sign is chosen based upon Lenz's law: the field generated by the motion must oppose the change in flux caused by the rotation. For example, the circuit with the radial segment in Figure 2 accord...
264. ...ast the imaginary line is with "ω" = "dθ" / "dt" the angular rate of rotation. The sign is chosen based upon Lenz's law: the field generated by the motion must oppose the change in flux caused by the **rotation**. For example, the circuit with the radial segment in Figure 2 according to the right-hand rule "adds" to the applied B-field, tending to increase the flux linkage. That suggests that the flux through...
265. ...radial segment in Figure 2 according to the right-hand rule "adds" to the applied B-field, tending to increase the flux linkage. That suggests that the flux through this path is decreasing due to the **rotation**, so "dθ" / "dt " is negative. This flux-cutting result for EMF can be compared to calculating the work done per unit charge making an infinitesimal test charge traverse the hypothetical line using th...
266. ...ectangle (rotating with the disc) sweeps out the same rate-of-change of flux, and predicts the same EMF. For the disc, this rate-of-change of flux estimation is the same as that done above based upon **rotation** of the disc past a line joining the brush to the axle. Whether the magnet is "moving" is irrelevant in this analysis, due to the flux induced in the return path. The crucial relative motion is that o...
267. ...unt two conducting disks just next to each other on the same axle and let them have sliding electrical contact at the center and at the circumference. The current will be proportional to the relative **rotation** of the two disks and independent of any rotation of the magnet. A Faraday disk can also be operated with neither a galvanometer nor a return path. When the disk spins, the electrons collect along the...
268. ...on the same axle and let them have sliding electrical contact at the center and at the circumference. The current will be proportional to the relative rotation of the two disks and independent of any **rotation** of the magnet. A Faraday disk can also be operated with neither a galvanometer nor a return path. When the disk spins, the electrons collect along the rim and leave a deficit near the axis (or the ot...
269. ...d loss of power. Without armature reaction, the magnetic neutral axis (MNA) would coincide with geometrical neutral axis (GNA). Armature reaction causes the neutral plane to shift in the direction of **rotation**, and if the brushes are in the neutral plane at no load, that is, when no armature current is flowing, they will not be in the neutral plane when armature current is flowing. For this reason it is de...
270. ...milar effects can be observed by applying only mechanical stresses (e.g. bending) to the material placed in the detecting coil. These magnetization jumps are caused by discrete changes in the size or **rotation** of ferromagnetic domains. Domains change size by the domain walls moving within the crystal lattice in response to changes in the magnetic field, by the process of dipoles near the wall changing spin...
271. ...bility. The Sellmeier equation is directly connected to the Kramer-Kronig relations, and is used to approximate real and complex refractive index of materials far away from any resonances. In optical **rotation**, the Kramers–Kronig relations establish a connection between optical rotary dispersion and circular dichroism. Kramers–Kronig relations enable exact solutions of nontrivial scattering problems, which...
272. ...plates in a split stator capacitor are mounted on opposite sides of the rotor axis. While the split stator capacitor benefits from larger electrodes compared to the butterfly capacitor, as well as a **rotation** angle of up to 180°, the separation of rotor plates incurs some losses since RF current has to pass the rotor axis instead of flowing straight through each rotor vane. Differential variable capacitor...
273. ...e tether is a conductor, then the electric field leads to the displacement of charges along the tether. Note that the velocity used in this equation is the orbital velocity of the tether. The rate of **rotation** of the Earth, or of its core, is not relevant. In this regard, see also homopolar generator. With a long conducting wire of length L, an electric field E is generated in the wire. It produces a volta...
274. ...s symmetrically set up so either end can be used as the anode. This tether system is symmetrical because rotating tether systems will need to use both ends as anodes and cathodes at some point in its **rotation**. The V_hvps will only be used in the cathode end of the EDT system, and is turned off otherwise. In-plane and out-of-plane direction is determined by the orbital velocity vector of the system. An in-...
275. ...ermanent magnet or electromagnet on the other end of the arm, there is a magnetic field applied to the system, causing the coil to experience a torque causing the arm to twist or rotate. The angle of **rotation** can then be calculated. Amongst a wide range of interest in optics, Brownian motion, and experimental physics, Gouy also had a strong intrigue for the phenomena of magnetism. Gouy derived a mathemati...
276. ...ly 1970s by Schatten. It warps into a wavy spiral shape that has been likened to a ballerina skirt. The waviness of the current sheet is due to the magnetic field dipole axis' tilt angle to the solar **rotation** axis and variations from an ideal dipole field. Unlike the familiar shape of the field from a bar magnet, the Sun's extended field is twisted into an arithmetic spiral by the magnetohydrodynamic infl...
277. ...nce of the solar wind. The solar wind travels outward from the Sun at a rate of 200–800 km/s, but an individual jet of solar wind from a particular feature on the Sun's surface rotates with the solar **rotation**, making a spiral pattern in space. The cause of this ballerina spiral shape has sometimes been called the "garden sprinkler effect" or "garden hose effect", because it is likened to a lawn sprinkler...
278. ...the Sun were not rotating). The spiral shape also greatly amplifies the strength of the solar magnetic field in the outer Solar System. The Parker spiral may be responsible for the differential solar **rotation**, in which the Sun's poles rotate more slowly (about a 35-day rotation period) than the equator (about a 27-day rotation period). The solar wind is guided by the Sun's magnetic field and hence largely...
279. ...e strength of the solar magnetic field in the outer Solar System. The Parker spiral may be responsible for the differential solar rotation, in which the Sun's poles rotate more slowly (about a 35-day **rotation** period) than the equator (about a 27-day rotation period). The solar wind is guided by the Sun's magnetic field and hence largely emanates from the polar regions of the Sun; the induced spiral shape...
280. ...r Solar System. The Parker spiral may be responsible for the differential solar rotation, in which the Sun's poles rotate more slowly (about a 35-day rotation period) than the equator (about a 27-day **rotation** period). The solar wind is guided by the Sun's magnetic field and hence largely emanates from the polar regions of the Sun; the induced spiral shape of the field causes a drag torque on the poles due...
281. ...asma gun (dense plasma focus device) that interact in such a way as to simulate an early model of galaxy formation. Quantum gyroscope A quantum gyroscope is a very sensitive device to measure angular **rotation** based on quantum mechanical principles. The first of these was built by Richard Packard and his colleagues at the University of California, Berkeley. The extreme sensitivity means that theoretically,...
282. ...m was overcome by using barriers with thousands of holes, in effect a chorus of quantum whistles producing sound waves that reinforced one another by constructive interference. Where formula_2 is the **rotation** vector, A is the area vector, and formula_3 is the quantum of circulation of helium-3. Synchronous condenser In electrical engineering, a synchronous condenser (sometimes called a syncon, synchronous...
283. ..., its equivalent circuit will be an AC generator in series with the winding inductance formula_8 of the stator. The magnitude of formula_7 depends on the excitation current formula_6 and the speed of **rotation**, and as the latter is fixed, formula_7 depends only on formula_6. If formula_6 is critically adjusted to a value formula_14, formula_7 will be equal and opposite to formula_5, and the current in the...
284. ...harge" is given below; Consider a point "P" at a distance from an infinite line charge having charge density (charge per unit length) λ. Imagine a closed surface in the form of cylinder whose axis of **rotation** is the line charge. If is the length of the cylinder, then the charge enclosed in the cylinder is formula_5 where is the charge enclosed in the Gaussian surface. There are three surfaces "a", "b" and...
285. ...r the incorporation of non-symmetrical structures.⁠ Flexible spacers include, for example, ether or hexafluoroisopropylidene, carbonyl or aliphatic groups like isopropylidene; these groups allow bond **rotation** between aromatic rings. Less symmetrical structures, for example, based on "meta"- or "ortho"-linked monomers, introduce structural disorder, decreasing the crystallinity. The generally poor processa...
286. ...rsepower on single-phase power applied to a single winding, once spun up by some means. A three-phase motor running on a single phase cannot start itself because it lacks the other phases to create a **rotation** on its own, much like a crank that is at dead center. A three-phase induction motor that is spinning under single-phase power applied to terminals L1 and L2 will generate an electric potential (volta...
287. ...uid amplification essentially balancing diffusive or ohmic decay. Such systems are called self-sustaining dynamos. The Sun is a self-sustaining dynamo that converts convective motion and differential **rotation** within the Sun to electric-magnetic energy. Currently, the geometry and width of the tachocline are hypothesized to play an important role in models of the solar dynamo by winding up the weaker poloi...
288. ...etic fields. At solar-cycle maximum, the external poloidal dipolar magnetic field is near its dynamo-cycle minimum strength, but an internal toroidal quadrupolar field, generated through differential **rotation** within the tachocline, is near its maximum strength. At this point in the dynamo cycle, buoyant upwelling within the convection zone forces emergence of the toroidal magnetic field through the photos...
289. ...number. At solar minimum, the toroidal field is, correspondingly, at minimum strength, sunspots are relatively rare and the poloidal field is at maximum strength. During the next cycle, differential **rotation** converts magnetic energy back from the poloidal to the toroidal field, with a polarity that is opposite to the previous cycle. The process carries on continuously, and in an idealized, simplified sce...
290. ...onauts on the International Space Station use foot straps to stand in place at workstations or on exercise equipment. Although many science fiction works assume some type of artificial gravity or use **rotation** to "create" gravity, magnetic boots still feature for purposes of exterior repairs or in emergency situations. Magnetic boots were notably used in "" to stage a surprise attack by disabling the artif...
291. ...to the reflection surface and parallel to the plane of incidence, the effect is called the "polar Kerr effect". To simplify the analysis, and because the other two configurations have vanishing Kerr **rotation** at normal incidence, near normal incidence is usually employed when doing experiments in the polar geometry. In the "longitudinal effect," the magnetization vector is parallel to both the reflection...
292. ...the polarization of the incident light (circular, linear, and elliptical). When the polarized light is reflected off the sample material, a change in any combination of the following may occur: Kerr **rotation**, Kerr ellipticity, or polarized amplitude. The changes in polarization are converted by the analyzer into changes in light intensity, which are visible. A computer system is often used to create an i...
293. ...white point can be calculated, it is not the case that knowing the white point of an image alone tells you a great deal about the illuminant that was used to record it. QMR effect Quadratic magnetic **rotation** (also known as QMR or QMR effect) is a type of magneto-optic effect, discovered in the mid 1980s by a team of Ukrainian physicists. QMR, like the Faraday effect, establishes a relationship between th...
294. ...r QMR effect) is a type of magneto-optic effect, discovered in the mid 1980s by a team of Ukrainian physicists. QMR, like the Faraday effect, establishes a relationship between the magnetic field and **rotation** of polarization of the plane of linearly polarized light. In contrast to the Faraday effect, QMR originates from the quadratic proportionality between the angle of the rotation of the plane of polari...
295. ...the magnetic field and rotation of polarization of the plane of linearly polarized light. In contrast to the Faraday effect, QMR originates from the quadratic proportionality between the angle of the **rotation** of the plane of polarization and the strength of the magnetic field. Mostly QMR can be observed in the transverse geometry when the vector of the magnetic field strength is perpendicular to the direc...
296. ...peratures, "I" is the total beam current, and "k" is the Boltzmann constant. The "generalized Bennett relation" considers a current-carrying magnetic-field-aligned cylindrical plasma pinch undergoing **rotation** at angular frequency ω. Along the axis of the plasma cylinder flows a current density j, resulting in an azimuthal magnetic field Β. Originally derived by Witalis, the generalized Bennett relation re...
297. ...he second rheostat decreases in resistance, keeping the load impedance (presented at the input of the L pad) constant. The second rheostat usually has a special "taper" (function of resistance versus **rotation**) to accommodate the need for constant input impedance. In RF (radio frequency) applications, the L network is the basis of many common impedance matching circuits, such as the pi network employed in...
298. ...ce", with the latter reflecting the physical meaning of the effect. For an electromagnetic incident wave linearly polarized formula_1 and an in-plane polarized sample formula_2, the expression of the **rotation** in reflection geometry is formula_3 is: formula_4 and in the transmission geometry: formula_5 where formula_6 is the difference of refraction indices depending on the Voigt parameter formula_7 (same...
299. ...electric field and a homogenously in-plane magnetized sample formula_2 where formula_14 is counted from the [100] crystallographic direction. The aim is to calculate formula_15 where formula_3 is the **rotation** of polarization due to the coupling of the light with the magnetization. Let us notice that formula_3 is experimentally a small quantity of the order of mrad. formula_18 is the reduced magnetization...
300. ..., the electromagnetic field is decomposed on the derived eigenvectors formula_57. The system of equation to solve is: formula_58 The solution of this system of equation are: formula_59 formula_60 The **rotation** angle formula_3 and the ellipticity angle formula_62 are defined from the ratio formula_63 with the two following formulae: formula_64 where formula_65 and formula_66 represent the real and imaginary...
301. ...mulae: formula_64 where formula_65 and formula_66 represent the real and imaginary part of formula_67. Using the two previously calculated components, one obtains: formula_68 This gives for the Voigt **rotation**: formula_69 which can also be rewritten in the case of formula_9, formula_8, and formula_24 real: formula_73 where formula_74 is the difference of refraction indices. Consequently, one obtains someth...
302. ...ormula_74 is the difference of refraction indices. Consequently, one obtains something proportional to formula_75 and which depends on the incident linear polarisation. For proper formula_76 no Voigt **rotation** can be observed. formula_75 is proportional to the square of the magnetization since formula_78 and formula_79. The calculation of the rotation of the Voigt effect in transmission is in principle equ...
303. ...ent linear polarisation. For proper formula_76 no Voigt rotation can be observed. formula_75 is proportional to the square of the magnetization since formula_78 and formula_79. The calculation of the **rotation** of the Voigt effect in transmission is in principle equivalent to the one of the Faraday effect. In practice, this configuration is not used in general for ferromagnetic samples since the absorption...
304. ...position , the expression of formula_89 is: formula_90 where formula_91 and formula_92are the eigenvectors previously calculated, and formula_93 is the difference for the two refraction indices. The **rotation** is then calculated from the ratio formula_94, with development in first order in formula_9 and second order in formula_24. This gives: formula_97 Again we obtain something proportional to formula_75...
305. ...e light propagation length. Let us notice that formula_75 is proportional to formula_101 in the same way with respect to the geometry in reflexion for the magnetization. In order to extract the Voigt **rotation**, we consider formula_102, formula_103 and formula_9 real. Then we have to calculate the real part of (14). The resulting expression is then inserted in (8). In the approximation of no absorption, one...
306. ...02, formula_103 and formula_9 real. Then we have to calculate the real part of (14). The resulting expression is then inserted in (8). In the approximation of no absorption, one obtains for the Voigt **rotation** in transmission geometry: formula_105 As an illustration of the application of the Voigt effect, we give an example in the magnetic semiconductor where a large Voigt effect was observed. At low tempe...
307. ...hown in figure 1. This cycle was obtained by sending a linearly polarized light along the [110] direction with an incident angle of approximately 3° (more details can be found in ), and measuring the **rotation** due to magneto-optical effects of the reflected light beam. In contrast to the common longitudinal/polar Kerr effect, the hysteresis cycle is even with respect to the magnetization, which is a signat...
308. ...ure the intrinsic effect by using the classical analogy between an electron and a spinning tennis ball. The tennis ball deviates from its straight path in air in a direction depending on the sense of **rotation**, also known as the Magnus effect. In a solid, the air is replaced by an effective electric field due to asymmetries in the material, the relative motion between the magnetic moment (associated to the...
309. ...lly. The direct and inverse spin Hall effect can be monitored by optical means. The spin accumulation induces circular polarization of the emitted light, as well as the Faraday (or Kerr) polarization **rotation** of the transmitted (or reflected) light. Observing the polarization of emitted light allows the spin Hall effect to be observed. More recently, the existence of both direct and inverse effects was de...
310. ...d wires). In a system with spin–orbit coupling, the spin of a carrier is coupled to its momentum. The spin of the carrier rotates as it goes around a self-intersecting path, and the direction of this **rotation** is opposite for the two directions about the loop. Because of this, the two paths along any loop interfere "destructively" which leads to a "lower" net resistivity.  In two dimensions the change in c...
311. ...ows the arrangement of tetrahedrons consisting of GaO and PO that are slightly tilted. Because of the helical arrangement of these tetrahedrons, two modifications of GaPO exist with different optical **rotation** (left and right). GaPO does not occur in nature; thus it must be grown synthetically. Presently, only one company in Austria produces these crystals commercially. Pressure sensors based on quartz hav...
312. ...240 kilowatts in direct sunlight, or about 84 to 120 kilowatts average power (cycling between sunlight and shade). The solar arrays normally track the Sun, with the "alpha gimbal" used as the primary **rotation** to follow the Sun as the space station moves around the Earth, and the "beta gimbal" used to adjust for the angle of the space station's orbit to the ecliptic. Several different tracking modes are us...
313. ...e through most of the Solar System (or heliosphere), so that the magnetic field is pulled into an Archimedean spiral pattern (the Parker spiral) by the combination of the outward motion and the Sun's **rotation**. In near-Earth space, the IMF nominally makes an angle of approximately 45° to the Earth–Sun line, though this angle varies with solar wind speed. The angle of the IMF to the radial direction reduces...
314. ...n as the vortex center is approached. Thus, for each directional element formula_24 there are now not two, but four bits to be stored by a change of vorticity: The first two bits concern the sense of **rotation**, clockwise or counterclockwise; the remaining bits three and four concern the polarization of the central singular line, which may be polarized up- or downwards. The change of rotation and/or polariz...
315. ...n the sense of rotation, clockwise or counterclockwise; the remaining bits three and four concern the polarization of the central singular line, which may be polarized up- or downwards. The change of **rotation** and/or polarization involves subtle topology. As first discussed by Onsager and Feynman, if the temperature in a superfluid or a superconductor is raised, the vortex loops undergo a second-order phas...
316. ...was the rotating capacitor drum memory of the Atanasoff–Berry Computer (1942). Each of its two drums stored thirty 50-bit binary numbers (1500 bits each), rotated at 60 rpm and was regenerated every **rotation** (1 Hz refresh rate). The first random access regenerative capacitor memory was the Williams tube (1947). As fitted to the first practical programmable digital computer, a single Williams tube held a...
317. ...ped, all of which have varied sizes and dimensions. Large domains, within the range of 25-100 micrometers can be easily seen by Kerr microscopy, which uses the magneto-optic Kerr effect, which is the **rotation** of the polarization of light reflected from a magnetized surface. Lorentz microscopy is a collection of transmission electron microscopy techniques used to study magnetic domain structures down to th...
318. ...ls, but the BPM has also been extended to be applicable to simulate the propagation of light in general anisotropic materials such as liquid crystals. This allows one to analyze e.g. the polarization **rotation** of light in anisotropic materials, the tunability of a directional coupler based on liquid crystals or the light diffraction in LCD pixels. The Beam Propagation Method relies on the slowly varying en...
319. ...current is increased, the magnetic field builds, strengthening the binding of the particles. The clutch rotor passes through the bound particles, causing drag between the input and the output during **rotation**. Depending upon the output torque requirement, the output and input may lock at 100% transfer. When current is removed from the clutch, the input is almost free to turn with the shaft. Because the ma...
320. ...magnetized depending upon the strength of the flux (this dissipates as flux is removed). This means, as the rotor rotates, magnetic drag between the rotor and the hysteresis disk takes place causing **rotation**. In a sense, the hysteresis disk is pulled after the rotor. Depending upon the output torque required, this pull eventually can match the input speed, giving a 100% lockup. When current is removed fr...
321. ...n 1913, and later was removed with the development of quantum mechanics. Samuel Jackson Barnett, motivated by the Richardson's paper realized that the opposite effect should also happen – a change in **rotation** should cause a magnetization (the Barnett effect). He published the idea in 1909, after which he pursued the experimental studies of the effect. Einstein and de Haas published two papers in April 191...
322. ...arnett reported the results of his measurements at several scientific conferences in 1914. In October 1915 he published the first observation of the Barnett effect in a paper titled "Magnetization by **Rotation**". His result for formula_20 was close to the right value of formula_22, which was unexpected at that time. In 1918 John Quincy Stewart published the results of his measurements confirming the Barnett...
323. ...ake field-induced movements or deformations. It is a recently developed technology and is still in progress of widening applications. Types of Electronmanipulation includes dielectrophoresis, electro-**rotation**, electro-deformation, electro-disruption, electro-destruction, electroporation, and electro-fusion. Diverse electromanipulations are achieved using various electric fields including AC(alternating cu...
324. ...hen applying DEP, thus separating live cells and dead cells. Dielectric properties of cells can be analyzed using measurements of DEP spectra of cells. Electric field applied: AC oscillating Purpose: **rotation** Condition: suspension media of low electrical conductivity; frequency is approximately the crossover frequency(DEP force is negligible) Theory: ER changes the alignment of non-spherical cells by chan...
325. ...or the toy and an adjustable slider to position the width of the track. The narrower the track, the faster the wheel goes, because the axle is thicker in the middle and you get more distance per each **rotation** of the wheel. Widen the track, and the wheel goes slower. -In S4E25 of Family Guy, news anchor Tom Tucker says, "and now this!" and begins playing with a WHEE-LO during a broadcast. He continues, "Lo...
326. ...eory also known as the Wheeler–Feynman time-symmetric theory. In gravitation, there are application examples for calculating deviations in orbits of satellites, moons or planets. The anomalies in the **rotation** curves of more than one hundred spiral galaxys of different types could also be explained. The data of the “SPARC (Spitzer Photometry and Accurate Rotation Curves) Galaxy collection”, which were reco...
327. ...tes, moons or planets. The anomalies in the rotation curves of more than one hundred spiral galaxys of different types could also be explained. The data of the “SPARC (Spitzer Photometry and Accurate **Rotation** Curves) Galaxy collection”, which were recorded with the Spitzer Space Telescope, were used for this purpose. In this way, neither the assumption of dark matter nor a modification of general relativi...
328. ...circulation of the conducting plasma functions like a dynamo. This activity destroys the star's primordial magnetic field, then generates a dipolar magnetic field. As the star undergoes differential **rotation**—rotating at different rates for various latitudes—the magnetism is wound into a toroidal field of "flux ropes" that become wrapped around the star. The fields can become highly concentrated, producin...
329. ...e surface. The magnetic field of a rotating body of conductive gas or liquid develops self-amplifying electric currents, and thus a self-generated magnetic field, due to a combination of differential **rotation** (different angular velocity of different parts of body), Coriolis forces and induction. The distribution of currents can be quite complicated, with numerous open and closed loops, and thus the magnet...
330. ...e field of the equatorial current loop, thus producing magnetic poles near the geographic poles of a rotating body. The magnetic fields of all celestial bodies are often aligned with the direction of **rotation**, with notable exceptions such as certain pulsars. Another feature of this dynamo model is that the currents are AC rather than DC. Their direction, and thus the direction of the magnetic field they g...
331. ...ion, and thus the direction of the magnetic field they generate, alternates more or less periodically, changing amplitude and reversing direction, although still more or less aligned with the axis of **rotation**. The Sun's major component of magnetic field reverses direction every 11 years (so the period is about 22 years), resulting in a diminished magnitude of magnetic field near reversal time. During this...
332. ...ctivity on the surface of a star. (On the Sun they are termed sunspots.) These form a visible component of magnetic flux tubes that are formed within a star's convection zone. Due to the differential **rotation** of the star, the tube becomes curled up and stretched, inhibiting convection and producing zones of lower than normal temperature. Coronal loops often form above starspots, forming from magnetic fiel...
333. ...ction. The plasma is heated to tens of millions of kelvins, and the particles are accelerated away from the star's surface at extreme velocities. Surface activity appears to be related to the age and **rotation** rate of main-sequence stars. Young stars with a rapid rate of rotation exhibit strong activity. By contrast middle-aged, Sun-like stars with a slow rate of rotation show low levels of activity that v...
334. ...ticles are accelerated away from the star's surface at extreme velocities. Surface activity appears to be related to the age and rotation rate of main-sequence stars. Young stars with a rapid rate of **rotation** exhibit strong activity. By contrast middle-aged, Sun-like stars with a slow rate of rotation show low levels of activity that varies in cycles. Some older stars display almost no activity, which may...
335. ...pears to be related to the age and rotation rate of main-sequence stars. Young stars with a rapid rate of rotation exhibit strong activity. By contrast middle-aged, Sun-like stars with a slow rate of **rotation** show low levels of activity that varies in cycles. Some older stars display almost no activity, which may mean they have entered a lull that is comparable to the Sun's Maunder minimum. Measurements o...
336. ...ctivity, which may mean they have entered a lull that is comparable to the Sun's Maunder minimum. Measurements of the time variation in stellar activity can be useful for determining the differential **rotation** rates of a star. A star with a magnetic field will generate a magnetosphere that extends outward into the surrounding space. Field lines from this field originate at one magnetic pole on the star the...
337. ...from the photosphere, the magnetosphere creates a torque on the ejected matter. This results in a transfer of angular momentum from the star to the surrounding space, causing a slowing of the stellar **rotation** rate. Rapidly rotating stars have a higher mass loss rate, resulting in a faster loss of momentum. As the rotation rate slows, so too does the angular deceleration. By this means, a star will gradual...
338. ...ar momentum from the star to the surrounding space, causing a slowing of the stellar rotation rate. Rapidly rotating stars have a higher mass loss rate, resulting in a faster loss of momentum. As the **rotation** rate slows, so too does the angular deceleration. By this means, a star will gradually approach, but never quite reach, the state of zero rotation. A T Tauri star is a type of pre-main-sequence star...
339. ...rate, resulting in a faster loss of momentum. As the rotation rate slows, so too does the angular deceleration. By this means, a star will gradually approach, but never quite reach, the state of zero **rotation**. A T Tauri star is a type of pre-main-sequence star that is being heated through gravitational contraction and has not yet begun to burn hydrogen at its core. They are variable stars that are magneti...
340. ...active. The magnetic field of these stars is thought to interact with its strong stellar wind, transferring angular momentum to the surrounding protoplanetary disk. This allows the star to brake its **rotation** rate as it collapses. Small, M-class stars (with 0.1–0.6 solar masses) that exhibit rapid, irregular variability are known as flare stars. These fluctuations are hypothesized to be caused by flares,...
341. ...neutrons called a neutron star. These bodies retain a significant magnetic field from the original star, but the collapse in size causes the strength of this field to increase dramatically. The rapid **rotation** of these collapsed neutron stars results in a pulsar, which emits a narrow beam of energy that can periodically point toward an observer. Compact and fast-rotating astronomical objects (white dwarfs,...
342. ...tic field of a newly born fast-spinning neutron star is so strong (up to 10 teslas) that it electromagnetically radiates enough energy to quickly (in a matter of few million years) damp down the star **rotation** by 100 to 1000 times. Matter falling on a neutron star also has to follow the magnetic field lines, resulting in two hot spots on the surface where it can reach and collide with the star's surface. T...
343. ...spots on the surface where it can reach and collide with the star's surface. These spots are literally a few feet (about a metre) across but tremendously bright. Their periodic eclipsing during star **rotation** is hypothesized to be the source of pulsating radiation (see pulsars). An extreme form of a magnetized neutron star is the magnetar. These are formed as the result of a core-collapse supernova. The e...
344. ...ing accelerating motion, inertia causes the electrons in the body to "lag" behind the overall motion. In the case of linear acceleration, negative charge accumulates at the end of the body; while for **rotation** the negative charge accumulates at the outer rim. The accumulation of charges can be measured by a galvanometer. This effect is proportional to the mass of the charge carriers. It is much more signif...
345. ...y that causes an accretion disk orbiting a massive central object to become turbulent. It arises when the angular velocity of a conducting fluid in a magnetic field decreases as the distance from the **rotation** center increases. It is also known as the Velikhov–Chandrasekhar instability or Balbus–Hawley instability in the literature, not to be confused with the electrothermal Velikhov instability. The MRI i...
346. ...ty, an element of magnetized fluid also feels the Lorentz force formula_1 where formula_2 is the current density and formula_3 is the magnetic field vector. If the fluid is in a state of differential **rotation** about a fixed origin, this Lorentz force can be surprisingly disruptive, even if the magnetic field is very weak. In particular, if the angular velocity of rotation formula_4 decreases with radial di...
347. ...luid is in a state of differential rotation about a fixed origin, this Lorentz force can be surprisingly disruptive, even if the magnetic field is very weak. In particular, if the angular velocity of **rotation** formula_4 decreases with radial distance formula_5 the motion is unstable: a fluid element undergoing a small displacement from circular motion experiences a destabilizing force that increases at a r...
348. ...r more quantitatively, consider the equations of motion for a fluid element mass in circular motion with an angular velocity formula_6 In general formula_4 will be a function of the distance from the **rotation** axis formula_5 and we assume that the orbital radius is formula_9 The centripetal acceleration required to keep the mass in orbit is formula_10; the minus sign indicates a direction toward the center...
349. ...a magnetic tension force gives rise to a return force which is directly proportional to the displacement. This means that the oscillation frequency formula_41 for small displacements in the plane of **rotation** of a disk with a uniform magnetic field in the vertical direction satisfies an equation ("dispersion relation") exactly analogous to equation , with the "spring constant" formula_81 As before, if for...
350. ...hown that MRI is present regardless of the magnetic field geometry, as long as the field is not too strong. In astrophysics, one is generally interested in the case for which the disk is supported by **rotation** against the gravitational attraction of a central mass. A balance between the Newtonian gravitational force and the radial centripetal force immediately gives where formula_12 is the Newtonian gravit...
351. ...For a Keplerian disk, the maximum growth rate is formula_93 which occurs at a wavenumber satisfying formula_94 formula_95 is very rapid, corresponding to an amplification factor of more than 100 per **rotation** period. The nonlinear development of the MRI into fully developed turbulence may be followed via large scale numerical computation. Interest in the MRI is based on the fact that it appears to give an...
352. ...angular momentum from one (inner) fluid element to another (farther out). The breakdown of shear layers into turbulence is routinely observed in flows with velocity gradients, but without systematic **rotation**. This is an important point, because rotation produces strongly stabilizing Coriolis forces, and this is precisely what occurs in accretion disks . As can be seen in equation , the K = 0 limit produc...
353. ...nt to another (farther out). The breakdown of shear layers into turbulence is routinely observed in flows with velocity gradients, but without systematic rotation. This is an important point, because **rotation** produces strongly stabilizing Coriolis forces, and this is precisely what occurs in accretion disks . As can be seen in equation , the K = 0 limit produces Coriolis-stabilized oscillations, not expon...
354. ...responsible for maintaining the terrestrial and solar magnetic fields. In both of these cases thermal convection is likely to be the primary energy source, though in the case of the Sun differential **rotation** may also play an important role. Whether the MRI is an efficient dynamo process in accretion disks is currently an area of active research (Fromang and Papaloizou, 2007). There may also be applicatio...
355. ...mo process in accretion disks is currently an area of active research (Fromang and Papaloizou, 2007). There may also be applications of the MRI outside of the classical accretion disk venue. Internal **rotation** in stars (Ogilvie, 2007), and even planetary dynamos (Petitdemange et al., 2008) may, under some circumstances, be vulnerable to the MRI in combination with convective instabilities. These studies ar...
356. ...er concentric spherical shells or coaxial cylindrical shells. Between (and confined by) the shells, there is a conducting liquid metal such as sodium or gallium. The inner and outer shells are set in **rotation** at different rates, and viscous torques compel the trapped liquid metal to differentially rotate. The experiment then investigates whether the differential rotation profile is stable or not in the pr...
357. ...inner and outer shells are set in rotation at different rates, and viscous torques compel the trapped liquid metal to differentially rotate. The experiment then investigates whether the differential **rotation** profile is stable or not in the presence of an applied magnetic field. A claimed detection of the MRI in a spherical shell experiment (Sisan et al., 2004), in which the underlying state was itself tu...
358. ...e easier or harder to magnetize depending on which way the object is rotated. For most magnetically anisotropic materials, there are two easiest directions to magnetize the material, which are a 180° **rotation** apart. The line parallel to these directions is called the easy axis. In other words, the easy axis is an energetically favorable direction of spontaneous magnetization. Because the two opposite dire...
359. ...ve superconductors YBaCuO. In certain states of spin-1 superfluids or Bose condensates, the condensate wavefunction is invariant if the superfluid phase changes by formula_20, along with a formula_20 **rotation** of spin angle. This is in contrast to the formula_4 invariance of condensate wavefunction in a spin-0 superfluid. A vortex resulting from such phase windings is called fractional or half-quantum vort...
360. ...al generated from the suspension. To account for different geometries of the electrode, the column is typically rotated 180 degrees while measuring the potential. This difference in potential through **rotation** by 180 degrees is twice the sedimentation potential. The zeta potential can be determined through measurement by sedimentation potential, as the concentration, conductivity of the suspension, density...
361. ...s because it eliminates the complication of transferring power from outside the motor to the spinning rotor. An example of a brushless, synchronous DC motor is a stepper motor which can divide a full **rotation** into a large number of steps. Other electromagnetic machines include the Amplidyne, Synchro, Metadyne, Eddy current clutch, Eddy current brake, Eddy current dynamometer, Hysteresis dynamometer, Rotar...
362. ...winding phases of the 3-phase motor must be energized in a "sequence" for a motor to rotate, for example the phase V lagging phase U by 120°, and phase W lagging the phase V (U > V > W, normal phase **rotation**, positive sequence). If the sequence is reversed (W < V < U), the motor will rotate in the opposite direction (negative sequence). The common current through all three windings is called zero sequenc...
363. ...ransition that can give rise to absorption of electromagnetic radiation: In reality, vibrations of molecules in the gaseous state are accompanied by rotational transitions, giving rise to a vibration-**rotation** spectrum. Furthermore, vibrational overtones and combination bands occur in the near-infrared region. The HITRAN spectroscopy database lists more than 37,000 spectral lines for gaseous HO, ranging fr...
364. ...in wavelength (usually in micrometers, μm) or wavenumber (usually in reciprocal centimeters, cm) scale. The water molecule is an asymmetric top, that is, it has three independent moments of inertia. **Rotation** about the 2-fold symmetry axis is illustrated at the left. Because of the low symmetry of the molecule, a large number of transitions can be observed in the far infrared region of the spectrum. Measu...
365. ...e.g., a laser beam would be slightly stronger. The electronic transitions of the water molecule lie in the vacuum ultraviolet region. For water vapor the bands have been assigned as follows. The pure **rotation** spectrum of water vapor extends into the microwave region. Liquid water has a broad absorption spectrum in the microwave region, which has been explained in terms of changes in the hydrogen bond netw...
366. ...ated by the saturation magnetization (although it can be smaller when averaged over a chunk of volume). The Landau-Lifshitz equation, a precursor of the LLG equation, phenomenologically describes the **rotation** of the magnetization in response to the effective field which accounts for not only a real magnetic field but also internal magnetic interactions such as exchange and anisotropy. An earlier, but equi...
367. ...ation of ion properties, such as its temperature and density.  The technique can also be extended to include multiple chords to build spatial profiles of the plasma, such as its toroidal and poloidal **rotation**. This provides insights into how ions conduct heat and transport momentum within the plasma. Charge-exchange spectroscopy is often referred to as charge-exchange recombination spectroscopy, which is...
368. ...g the experiment. The electrode includes a conductive disk embedded in an inert non-conductive polymer or resin that can be attached to an electric motor that has very fine control of the electrode's **rotation** rate. The disk, like any working electrode, is generally made of a noble metal or glassy carbon, however any conductive material can be used based on specific needs. The disk's rotation is usually de...
369. ...e electrode's rotation rate. The disk, like any working electrode, is generally made of a noble metal or glassy carbon, however any conductive material can be used based on specific needs. The disk's **rotation** is usually described in terms of angular velocity. As the disk turns, some of the solution described as the hydrodynamic boundary layer is dragged by the spinning disk and the resulting centrifugal f...
370. ...stirred experiments such as cyclic voltammetry where the steady-state current is limited by the diffusion of species in solution.  By running linear sweep voltammetry and other experiments at various **rotation** rates, different electrochemical phenomena can be investigated, including multi-electron transfer, the kinetics of a slow electron transfer, adsorption/desorption steps, and electrochemical reaction...
371. ...otating double-ring electrodes", "rotating double-ring-disk electrodes", and even more esoteric constructions, as suited to the experiment. The RRDE takes advantage of the laminar flow created during **rotation**. As the system is rotated, the solution in contact with the electrode is driven to its side, similar to the situation of a rotating disk electrode. As the solution flows to the side, it crosses the r...
372. ...brought in contact with the disk and with the ring quickly afterward, in a very controlled manner. The resulting currents depend on the potential, area, and spacing of the electrodes, as well as the **rotation** speed and the substrate. This design makes a variety of experiments possible, for example a complex could be oxidized at the disk and then reduced back to the starting material at the ring. It is eas...
373. ...st oxidation is followed by a chemical reaction, an EC mechanism, to form a product that can not be reduced at the ring then the magnitude of the ring current would be reduced. By varying the rate of **rotation** it is possible to determine the rate of the chemical reaction if it is in the proper kinetic regime. The RRDE setup allows for many additional experiments well beyond the capacity of a RDE. For examp...
374. ...rmulae derived from fluid dynamics first principles. One useful aspect of the theoretical collection efficiency is that it is only a function of the RRDE dimensions. That is, it is independent of the **rotation** rate over a wide range of rotation rates. It is desirable for an RRDE to have a large collection efficiency if only to assure that the current signal measured at the ring electrode is detectable. On...
375. ...first principles. One useful aspect of the theoretical collection efficiency is that it is only a function of the RRDE dimensions. That is, it is independent of the rotation rate over a wide range of **rotation** rates. It is desirable for an RRDE to have a large collection efficiency if only to assure that the current signal measured at the ring electrode is detectable. On the other hand, it also desirable f...
376. ...nder is the motion of a pole in relation to some reference frame. It can be used, for example, to measure the degree to which Earth's magnetic poles have been observed to move relative to the Earth's **rotation** axis. It is also possible to use continents as reference and observe the relative motion of the magnetic pole relative to the different continents; by doing so, the relative motion of those two conti...
377. ...Earth's surface, after accounting for the motion of the tectonic plates. This motion is caused by the rearrangement of the mantle and the crust in order to align the maximum inertia with the current **rotation** axis (fig.1). This is the situation with the lowest kinetic energy for the given, unchanging, angular momentum of the earth, and is attained as kinetic energy is dissipated due to the non-rigidity of...
378. ...iation of the maximum moment of inertia will remain for longer periods of time. One proposed solution to account for this imbalance is that if the difference between the maximum moment of inertia and **rotation** axis exceeds a certain limit, the planet will undergo a larger degree of oscillation to realign its maximum of inertia with its rotation axis. If this is indeed the case, then the timescale at which...
379. ...at if the difference between the maximum moment of inertia and rotation axis exceeds a certain limit, the planet will undergo a larger degree of oscillation to realign its maximum of inertia with its **rotation** axis. If this is indeed the case, then the timescale at which this correction happens must be fairly short. Europa, a moon of Jupiter, has been modelled to have a crust that is decoupled from its man...
380. ...ion on R along the vector "a"; that is, τ("x") = "x" + "a". Then For the final property, it is convenient to regard the Riesz transforms as a single vectorial entity "R"ƒ = ("R"ƒ...,"R"ƒ). Consider a **rotation** ρ in R. The rotation acts on spatial variables, and thus on functions via pullback. But it also can act on the spatial vector "R"ƒ. The final transformation property asserts that the Riesz transform...
381. ...ctor "a"; that is, τ("x") = "x" + "a". Then For the final property, it is convenient to regard the Riesz transforms as a single vectorial entity "R"ƒ = ("R"ƒ...,"R"ƒ). Consider a rotation ρ in R. The **rotation** acts on spatial variables, and thus on functions via pullback. But it also can act on the spatial vector "R"ƒ. The final transformation property asserts that the Riesz transform is equivariant with r...
382. ...ction in directed graphs is indicated by the sign of the element. Graphs are equivalent if one can be transformed into the other by deformation. Deformation can include the operations of translation, **rotation** and reflection; bending and stretching the branches; and crossing or knotting the branches. Two graphs which are equivalent through deformation are said to be "congruent". In the field of electrical...
383. ...f 250, 370 and 440 V. If a wrong capacitance value is installed, it will cause an uneven magnetic field around the rotor. This causes the rotor to hesitate at the uneven spots, resulting in irregular **rotation**, especially under load. This hesitation can cause the motor to become noisy, increase energy consumption, cause performance to drop and the motor to overheat. A dual run capacitor supports two electr...
384. ...g the hydrogen out at the top. Then air is admitted to the top, pushing the carbon dioxide out at the bottom. Purging is best done with the generator stopped. If it is done during slow-speed unloaded **rotation**, the generator fans will mix the gases, greatly increasing the time required to achieve purity. Hydrogen is often produced on-site using a plant consisting of an array of electrolysis cells, compress...
385. ...r words, its angle concerning the new reference frame is less than its angle to the old reference frame. This is because the reference frame, not the vector, was rotated forwards. Actually, a forward **rotation** of the reference frame is identical to a negative rotation of the vector. If the old reference frame were rotating forwards, such as in three-phase electrical systems, then the resulting DQ vector re...
386. ...ss than its angle to the old reference frame. This is because the reference frame, not the vector, was rotated forwards. Actually, a forward rotation of the reference frame is identical to a negative **rotation** of the vector. If the old reference frame were rotating forwards, such as in three-phase electrical systems, then the resulting DQ vector remains stationary. A single matrix equation can summarize th...
387. ...ems, then the resulting DQ vector remains stationary. A single matrix equation can summarize the operation above: This tensor can be expanded to three-dimensional problems, where the axis about which **rotation** occurs is left unaffected. In the following example, the rotation is about the "Z" axis, but any axis could have been chosen: From a linear algebra perspective, this is simply a clockwise rotation ab...
388. ...rix equation can summarize the operation above: This tensor can be expanded to three-dimensional problems, where the axis about which rotation occurs is left unaffected. In the following example, the **rotation** is about the "Z" axis, but any axis could have been chosen: From a linear algebra perspective, this is simply a clockwise rotation about the z-axis and is mathematically equivalent to the trigonometr...
389. ...ch rotation occurs is left unaffected. In the following example, the rotation is about the "Z" axis, but any axis could have been chosen: From a linear algebra perspective, this is simply a clockwise **rotation** about the z-axis and is mathematically equivalent to the trigonometric difference angle formulae. Consider a three-dimensional space with unit basis vectors "A", "B", and "C". The sphere in the figur...
390. ...nd then applies the Park transform to rotate the reference frame about the "Z" axis at some given angle. The "X" component becomes the "D" component, which is in "direct" alignment with the vector of **rotation**, and the "Y" component becomes the "Q" component, which is at a "quadrature" angle to the direct component. The "DQZ" transform is In electric systems, very often the "A", "B", and "C" values are osc...
391. ...must be pointed into the wind. Small turbines are pointed by a simple wind vane, while large turbines generally use a wind sensor coupled with a yaw system. Most have a gearbox, which turns the slow **rotation** of the blades into a quicker rotation that is more suitable to drive an electrical generator. Some turbines use a different type of generator suited to slower rotational speed input. These don't need...
392. ...turbines are pointed by a simple wind vane, while large turbines generally use a wind sensor coupled with a yaw system. Most have a gearbox, which turns the slow rotation of the blades into a quicker **rotation** that is more suitable to drive an electrical generator. Some turbines use a different type of generator suited to slower rotational speed input. These don't need a gearbox and are called direct-drive...
393. ...The key disadvantages include the relatively low rotational speed with the consequential higher torque and hence higher cost of the drive train, the inherently lower power coefficient, the 360-degree **rotation** of the aerofoil within the wind flow during each cycle and hence the highly dynamic loading on the blade, the pulsating torque generated by some rotor designs on the drive train, and the difficulty o...
394. ...tire turbulent atmospheric boundary layer. Recent research by John Dabiri of Caltech suggests that vertical wind turbines may be placed much more closely together so long as an alternating pattern of **rotation** is created allowing blades of neighbouring turbines to move in the same direction as they approach one another. Wind turbines need regular maintenance to stay reliable and available. In the best case...
395. ...scribed by a single coherent wavefunction, proportional to exp(-"i"φ), where φ is known as the phase of the wavefunction, this property can be also interpreted as a phase shift of π under a 90 degree **rotation**. This property was exploited by Tsuei "et al." by manufacturing a series of YBCO ring Josephson junctions which crossed [110] Bragg planes of a single YBCO crystal (figure). In a Josephson junction r...
396. ...n the strength and frequency of the imposed electric field. Rotational Brownian motion was first discussed by Peter Debye, who applied Albert Einstein's theory of translational Brownian motion to the **rotation** of molecules having permanent electric dipoles. Debye ignored inertial effects and assumed that the molecules were spherical, with an intrinsic, fixed dipole moment. He derived expressions for the di...
397. ...hysics research. ‘Spin’ in this context refers to a quantum mechanical property of certain elementary particles and nuclei, and should not be confused with the classical (and better-known) concept of **rotation**. Spin physics spans studies of nuclear, electron and proton magnetic resonance, magnetism, and certain areas of optics. Spintronics is a branch of spin physics. Perhaps the two best known application...

=== STATE (2279 occurrences) ===
1. ...ned the ampere by taking the fixed numerical value of the elementary charge to be when expressed in the unit C, which is equal to A⋅s, where the second is defined in terms of , the unperturbed ground **state** hyperfine transition frequency of the caesium-133 atom. The SI unit of charge, the coulomb, "is the quantity of electricity carried in 1 second by a current of 1 ampere". Conversely, a current of one...
2. ...leads to it being used in radiometric dating. Chemically, aluminium is a post-transition metal in the boron group; as is common for the group, aluminium forms compounds primarily in the +3 oxidation **state**. The aluminium cation Al is small and highly charged; as such, it has more polarizing power, and bonds formed by aluminium have a more covalent character. The strong affinity of aluminium for oxygen...
3. ...every group on the periodic table. The vast majority of compounds, including all aluminium-containing minerals and all commercially significant aluminium compounds, feature aluminium in the oxidation **state** 3+. The coordination number of such compounds varies, but generally Al is either six- or four-coordinate. Almost all compounds of aluminium(III) are colorless. In aqueous solution, Al exists as the h...
4. ...'s mantle is only 2.38% aluminium by mass. Aluminium also occurs in seawater at a concentration of 2 μg/kg. Because of its strong affinity for oxygen, aluminium is almost never found in the elemental **state**; instead it is found in oxides or silicates. Feldspars, the most common group of minerals in the Earth's crust, are aluminosilicates. Aluminium also occurs in the minerals beryl, cryolite, garnet, sp...
5. ...estigious chair in experimental physics at the Collège de France. In 1814, Ampère was invited to join the class of mathematicians in the new "Institut Impérial", the umbrella under which the reformed **state** Academy of Sciences would sit. Ampère engaged in a diverse array of scientific inquiries during the years leading up to his election to the academy—writing papers and engaging in topics from mathemat...
6. ...He was appointed deputy postmaster-general for the British colonies in 1753, which enabled him to set up the first national communications network. He was active in community affairs and colonial and **state** politics, as well as national and international affairs. Franklin became a hero in America when, as an agent in London for several colonies, he spearheaded the repeal of the unpopular Stamp Act by th...
7. ...lphia, which opened in 1755. At its first commencement, on May 17, 1757, seven men graduated; six with a Bachelor of Arts and one with a Master of Arts. It was later merged with the University of the **State** of Pennsylvania to become the University of Pennsylvania. The college was to become influential in guiding the founding documents of the United States: in the Continental Congress, for example, over...
8. ...attended Franklin's funeral after which he was interred in Christ Church Burial Ground in Philadelphia. Upon learning of his death, the Constitutional Assembly in Revolutionary France entered into a **state** of mourning for a period of three days, and memorial services were conducted in honor of Franklin throughout the country. In 1728, aged 22, Franklin wrote what he hoped would be his own epitaph: Fran...
9. ...terrible Mischief!" Following a series of experiments on Franklin's own house, lightning rods were installed on the Academy of Philadelphia (later the University of Pennsylvania) and the Pennsylvania **State** House (later Independence Hall) in 1752. Franklin had a major influence on the emerging science of demography or population studies. In the 1730s and 1740s, he began taking notes on population growth...
10. ...the 1948 paper, "On the Problem of the Molecular Theory of Superconductivity", where Fritz London proposed that the phenomenological London equations may be consequences of the coherence of a quantum **state**. In 1953, Brian Pippard, motivated by penetration experiments, proposed that this would modify the London equations via a new scale parameter called the coherence length. John Bardeen then argued in...
11. ...wo electrons then become correlated. Because there are a lot of such electron pairs in a superconductor, these pairs overlap very strongly and form a highly collective condensate. In this "condensed" **state**, the breaking of one pair will change the energy of the entire condensate - not just a single electron, or a single pair. Thus, the energy required to break any single pair is related to the energy r...
12. ...bserved in ultracold gases of fermions where a homogeneous magnetic field has been tuned to their Feshbach resonance. The original results of BCS (discussed below) described an s-wave superconducting **state**, which is the rule among low-temperature superconductors but is not realized in many unconventional superconductors such as the d-wave high-temperature superconductors. Extensions of BCS theory exist...
13. ...her cases, although they are insufficient to completely describe the observed features of high-temperature superconductivity. BCS is able to give an approximation for the quantum-mechanical many-body **state** of the system of (attractively interacting) electrons inside the metal. This state is now known as the BCS state. In the normal state of a metal, electrons move independently, whereas in the BCS stat...
14. ...res of high-temperature superconductivity. BCS is able to give an approximation for the quantum-mechanical many-body state of the system of (attractively interacting) electrons inside the metal. This **state** is now known as the BCS state. In the normal state of a metal, electrons move independently, whereas in the BCS state, they are bound into Cooper pairs by the attractive interaction. The BCS formalis...
15. ...onductivity. BCS is able to give an approximation for the quantum-mechanical many-body state of the system of (attractively interacting) electrons inside the metal. This state is now known as the BCS **state**. In the normal state of a metal, electrons move independently, whereas in the BCS state, they are bound into Cooper pairs by the attractive interaction. The BCS formalism is based on the reduced pote...
16. ...ble to give an approximation for the quantum-mechanical many-body state of the system of (attractively interacting) electrons inside the metal. This state is now known as the BCS state. In the normal **state** of a metal, electrons move independently, whereas in the BCS state, they are bound into Cooper pairs by the attractive interaction. The BCS formalism is based on the reduced potential for the electro...
17. ...tate of the system of (attractively interacting) electrons inside the metal. This state is now known as the BCS state. In the normal state of a metal, electrons move independently, whereas in the BCS **state**, they are bound into Cooper pairs by the attractive interaction. The BCS formalism is based on the reduced potential for the electrons' attraction. Within this potential, a variational ansatz for the...
18. ...dilute and dense regimes of attracting pairs of fermions is still an open problem, which now attracts a lot of attention within the field of ultracold gases. The hyperphysics website pages at Georgia **State** University summarize some key background to BCS theory as follows: BCS derived several important theoretical predictions that are independent of the details of the interaction, since the quantitative...
19. ...n formulation was given by Robert Luther and Andreas Nikolopulos in 1913. There are several equivalent formulations of the BBL law, depending on the precise choice of measured quantities. All of them **state** that, provided that the physical state is held constant, the extinction process is linear in the intensity of radiation and amount of radiatively-active matter, a fact sometimes called the fundamenta...
20. ...r and Andreas Nikolopulos in 1913. There are several equivalent formulations of the BBL law, depending on the precise choice of measured quantities. All of them state that, provided that the physical **state** is held constant, the extinction process is linear in the intensity of radiation and amount of radiatively-active matter, a fact sometimes called the fundamental law of extinction. Many of them then...
21. ...hly divided into physical and chemical interactions. Physical interaction do not alter the polarizability of the molecules as long as the interaction is not so strong that light and molecular quantum **state** intermix (strong coupling), but cause the attenuation cross sections to be non-additive via electromagnetic coupling. Chemical interactions in contrast change the polarizability and thus absorption....
22. ...that contains enough mobile electrons and positive ions to make it an electrical conductor. In the process, it forms a light emitting conductive path, such as a spark, arc or lightning. Plasma is the **state** of matter where some of the electrons in a gas are stripped or "ionized" from their molecules or atoms. A plasma can be formed by high temperature, or by application of a high electric or alternating...
23. ...tum mechanical phenomenon. It is characterized by the Meissner effect, the complete ejection of magnetic field lines from the interior of the superconductor as it transitions into the superconducting **state**. The occurrence of the Meissner effect indicates that superconductivity cannot be understood simply as the idealization of "perfect conductivity" in classical physics. In a semiconductor it is someti...
24. ...he classic crystalline semiconductors, electrons can have energies only within certain bands (i.e. ranges of levels of energy). Energetically, these bands are located between the energy of the ground **state**, the state in which electrons are tightly bound to the atomic nuclei of the material, and the free electron energy, the latter describing the energy required for an electron to escape entirely from t...
25. ...crystalline semiconductors, electrons can have energies only within certain bands (i.e. ranges of levels of energy). Energetically, these bands are located between the energy of the ground state, the **state** in which electrons are tightly bound to the atomic nuclei of the material, and the free electron energy, the latter describing the energy required for an electron to escape entirely from the material...
26. ...semiconductors and insulators. With covalent bonds, an electron moves by hopping to a neighboring bond. The Pauli exclusion principle requires that the electron be lifted into the higher anti-bonding **state** of that bond. For delocalized states, for example in one dimensionthat is in a nanowire, for every energy there is a state with electrons flowing in one direction and another state with the electrons...
27. ...principle requires that the electron be lifted into the higher anti-bonding state of that bond. For delocalized states, for example in one dimensionthat is in a nanowire, for every energy there is a **state** with electrons flowing in one direction and another state with the electrons flowing in the other. For a net current to flow, more states for one direction than for the other direction must be occupi...
28. ...igher anti-bonding state of that bond. For delocalized states, for example in one dimensionthat is in a nanowire, for every energy there is a state with electrons flowing in one direction and another **state** with the electrons flowing in the other. For a net current to flow, more states for one direction than for the other direction must be occupied. For this to occur, energy is required, as in the semic...
29. ...alid only for neutral atoms or molecules, i.e. total charge equal to zero. In the ionized case, we have where formula_3 is the center of mass of the molecule/group of particles. A non-degenerate ("S"-**state**) atom can have only a zero permanent dipole. This fact follows quantum mechanically from the inversion symmetry of atoms. All 3 components of the dipole operator are antisymmetric under inversion wit...
30. ...e antisymmetric under inversion with respect to the nucleus, where formula_5 is the dipole operator and formula_6 is the inversion operator. The permanent dipole moment of an atom in a non-degenerate **state** (see degenerate energy level) is given as the expectation (average) value of the dipole operator, where formula_8 is an "S"-state, non-degenerate, wavefunction, which is symmetric or antisymmetric un...
31. ...operator. The permanent dipole moment of an atom in a non-degenerate state (see degenerate energy level) is given as the expectation (average) value of the dipole operator, where formula_8 is an "S"-**state**, non-degenerate, wavefunction, which is symmetric or antisymmetric under inversion: formula_9. Since the product of the wavefunction (in the ket) and its complex conjugate (in the bra) is always symm...
32. ...te directions cause destructive interference. Additionally, multiple polarization signals can be combined (i.e. interfered) to form new states of polarization, which is known as parallel polarization **state** generation. The energy in electromagnetic waves is sometimes called radiant energy. An anomaly arose in the late 19th century involving a contradiction between the wave theory of light and measuremen...
33. ...of the electron include an intrinsic angular momentum (spin) of a half-integer value, expressed in units of the reduced Planck constant, . Being fermions, no two electrons can occupy the same quantum **state**, per the Pauli exclusion principle. Like all elementary particles, electrons exhibit properties of both particles and waves: They can collide with other particles and can be diffracted like light. Th...
34. ...m behaved as though it were negatively charged. In 1879, he proposed that these properties could be explained by regarding cathode rays as composed of negatively charged gaseous molecules in a fourth **state** of matter in which the mean free path of the particles is so long that collisions may be ignored. In 1883, not yet well-known German physicist Heinrich Hertz tried to prove that cathode rays are elec...
35. ...ing to the periodic law. In 1924, Austrian physicist Wolfgang Pauli observed that the shell-like structure of the atom could be explained by a set of four parameters that defined every quantum energy **state**, as long as each state was occupied by no more than a single electron. This prohibition against more than one electron occupying the same quantum energy state became known as the Pauli exclusion prin...
36. .... In 1924, Austrian physicist Wolfgang Pauli observed that the shell-like structure of the atom could be explained by a set of four parameters that defined every quantum energy state, as long as each **state** was occupied by no more than a single electron. This prohibition against more than one electron occupying the same quantum energy state became known as the Pauli exclusion principle. The physical mec...
37. ...meters that defined every quantum energy state, as long as each state was occupied by no more than a single electron. This prohibition against more than one electron occupying the same quantum energy **state** became known as the Pauli exclusion principle. The physical mechanism to explain the fourth parameter, which had two distinct possible values, was provided by the Dutch physicists Samuel Goudsmit and...
38. ...n some materials. In such cases, electrons 'split' into three independent particles, the spinon, the orbiton and the holon (or chargon). The electron can always be theoretically considered as a bound **state** of the three, with the spinon carrying the spin of the electron, the orbiton carrying the orbital degree of freedom and the chargon carrying the charge, but in certain conditions they can behave as i...
39. ...uished from each other by their intrinsic physical properties. In quantum mechanics, this means that a pair of interacting electrons must be able to swap positions without an observable change to the **state** of the system. The wave function of fermions, including electrons, is antisymmetric, meaning that it changes sign when two electrons are swapped; that is, , where the variables "r" and "r" correspond...
40. ...ve symmetric wave functions instead. In the case of antisymmetry, solutions of the wave equation for interacting electrons result in a zero probability that each pair will occupy the same location or **state**. This is responsible for the Pauli exclusion principle, which precludes any two electrons from occupying the same quantum state. This principle explains many of the properties of electrons. For examp...
41. ...t in a zero probability that each pair will occupy the same location or state. This is responsible for the Pauli exclusion principle, which precludes any two electrons from occupying the same quantum **state**. This principle explains many of the properties of electrons. For example, it causes groups of bound electrons to occupy different orbitals in an atom, rather than all overlapping each other in the s...
42. ...uum tubes use the flow of electrons to manipulate electrical signals, and they played a critical role in the development of electronics technology. However, they have been largely supplanted by solid-**state** devices such as the transistor. Electrical engineering Electrical engineering is an engineering discipline concerned with the study, design, and application of equipment, devices, and systems that us...
43. ...censure vary depending upon location. For example, in the United States and Canada "only a licensed engineer may seal engineering work for public and private clients". This requirement is enforced by **state** and provincial legislation such as Quebec's Engineers Act. In other countries, no such legislation exists. Practically all certifying bodies maintain a code of ethics that they expect all members to...
44. ...ts such as resistors, capacitors, diodes, transistors, and inductors in a circuit), the theories employed by engineers generally depend upon the work they do. For example, quantum mechanics and solid **state** physics might be relevant to an engineer working on VLSI (the design of integrated circuits), but are largely irrelevant to engineers working with macroscopic electrical systems. Even circuit theory...
45. ...obel Prize in Physics in 1921 for "his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect". The photoelectric effect is also employed in photocells such as can be found in solar panels. The first solid-**state** device was the "cat's-whisker detector" first used in the 1900s in radio receivers. A whisker-like wire is placed lightly in contact with a solid crystal (such as a germanium crystal) to detect a rad...
46. ...n the 1900s in radio receivers. A whisker-like wire is placed lightly in contact with a solid crystal (such as a germanium crystal) to detect a radio signal by the contact junction effect. In a solid-**state** component, the current is confined to solid elements and compounds engineered specifically to switch and amplify it. Current flow can be understood in two forms: as negatively charged electrons, and...
47. ...nd as positively charged electron deficiencies called holes. These charges and holes are understood in terms of quantum physics. The building material is most often a crystalline semiconductor. Solid-**state** electronics came into its own with the emergence of transistor technology. The first working transistor, a germanium-based point-contact transistor, was invented by John Bardeen and Walter Houser Bra...
48. ...lue of an alternating current is zero, but it delivers energy in first one direction, and then the reverse. Alternating current is affected by electrical properties that are not observed under steady **state** direct current, such as inductance and capacitance. These properties however can become important when circuitry is subjected to transients, such as when first energised. The concept of the electric...
49. ...1 revealed that a wire moving perpendicular to a magnetic field developed a potential difference between its ends. Further analysis of this process, known as electromagnetic induction, enabled him to **state** the principle, now known as Faraday's law of induction, that the potential difference induced in a closed circuit is proportional to the rate of change of magnetic flux through the loop. Exploitation...
50. ...supply initially causes a current as it accumulates charge; this current will however decay in time as the capacitor fills, eventually falling to zero. A capacitor will therefore not permit a steady **state** current, but instead blocks it. The inductor is a conductor, usually a coil of wire, that stores energy in a magnetic field in response to the current through it. When the current changes, the magnet...
51. ...a regular working system. Today, most electronic devices use semiconductor components to perform electron control. The underlying principles that explain how semiconductors work are studied in solid **state** physics, whereas the design and construction of electronic circuits to solve practical problems are part of electronics engineering. Faraday's and Ampère's work showed that a time-varying magnetic fi...
52. ...lex circuits can be analyzed numerically with software such as SPICE or GNUCAP, or symbolically using software such as SapWin. When faced with a new circuit, the software first tries to find a steady **state** solution, that is, one where all nodes conform to Kirchhoff's current law "and" the voltages across and through each element of the circuit conform to the voltage/current equations governing that ele...
53. ...e where all nodes conform to Kirchhoff's current law "and" the voltages across and through each element of the circuit conform to the voltage/current equations governing that element. Once the steady **state** solution is found, the "operating points" of each element in the circuit are known. For a small signal analysis, every non-linear element can be linearized around its operation point to obtain the sm...
54. ...elementary charge Therefore, one electronvolt is equal to  The electronvolt (eV) is a unit of energy, but is not an SI unit. It is a commonly used unit of energy within physics, widely used in solid **state**, atomic, nuclear and particle physics, and high-energy astrophysics. It is commonly used with SI prefixes "milli-" (10), "kilo-" (10), "mega-" (10), "giga-" (10), "tera-" (10), "peta-" (10) or "exa-"...
55. ...galvanische Kette, mathematisch bearbeitet"" (The Galvanic Circuit Investigated Mathematically) in which he gave his complete theory of electricity. In 1832, Michael Faraday's experiments led him to **state** his two laws of electrochemistry. In 1836, John Daniell invented a primary cell which solved the problem of polarization by introducing copper ions into the solution near the positive electrode and t...
56. ...az Dogonadze and his students. The term "redox" stands for reduction-oxidation. It refers to electrochemical processes involving electron transfer to or from a molecule or ion, changing its oxidation **state**. This reaction can occur through the application of an external voltage or through the release of chemical energy. Oxidation and reduction describe the change of oxidation state that takes place in t...
57. ...hanging its oxidation state. This reaction can occur through the application of an external voltage or through the release of chemical energy. Oxidation and reduction describe the change of oxidation **state** that takes place in the atoms, ions or molecules involved in an electrochemical reaction. Formally, oxidation state is the hypothetical charge that an atom would have if all bonds to atoms of differe...
58. ...elease of chemical energy. Oxidation and reduction describe the change of oxidation state that takes place in the atoms, ions or molecules involved in an electrochemical reaction. Formally, oxidation **state** is the hypothetical charge that an atom would have if all bonds to atoms of different elements were 100% ionic. An atom or ion that gives up an electron to another atom or ion has its oxidation state...
59. ...state is the hypothetical charge that an atom would have if all bonds to atoms of different elements were 100% ionic. An atom or ion that gives up an electron to another atom or ion has its oxidation **state** increase, and the recipient of the negatively charged electron has its oxidation state decrease. For example, when atomic sodium reacts with atomic chlorine, sodium donates one electron and attains a...
60. ...rent elements were 100% ionic. An atom or ion that gives up an electron to another atom or ion has its oxidation state increase, and the recipient of the negatively charged electron has its oxidation **state** decrease. For example, when atomic sodium reacts with atomic chlorine, sodium donates one electron and attains an oxidation state of +1. Chlorine accepts the electron and its oxidation state is reduc...
61. ...nd the recipient of the negatively charged electron has its oxidation state decrease. For example, when atomic sodium reacts with atomic chlorine, sodium donates one electron and attains an oxidation **state** of +1. Chlorine accepts the electron and its oxidation state is reduced to −1. The sign of the oxidation state (positive/negative) actually corresponds to the value of each ion's electronic charge. T...
62. ...xidation state decrease. For example, when atomic sodium reacts with atomic chlorine, sodium donates one electron and attains an oxidation state of +1. Chlorine accepts the electron and its oxidation **state** is reduced to −1. The sign of the oxidation state (positive/negative) actually corresponds to the value of each ion's electronic charge. The attraction of the differently charged sodium and chlorine...
63. ...sodium reacts with atomic chlorine, sodium donates one electron and attains an oxidation state of +1. Chlorine accepts the electron and its oxidation state is reduced to −1. The sign of the oxidation **state** (positive/negative) actually corresponds to the value of each ion's electronic charge. The attraction of the differently charged sodium and chlorine ions is the reason they then form an ionic bond. T...
64. ...e electrons are shared (covalent bonds) between atoms with large differences in electronegativity, the electron is assigned to the atom with the largest electronegativity in determining the oxidation **state**. The atom or molecule which loses electrons is known as the "reducing agent", or "reductant", and the substance which accepts the electrons is called the "oxidizing agent", or "oxidant". Thus, the ox...
65. ...oxidized form of the electrode metal. One electrode will undergo oxidation (the anode) and the other will undergo reduction (the cathode). The metal of the anode will oxidize, going from an oxidation **state** of 0 (in the solid form) to a positive oxidation state and become an ion. At the cathode, the metal ion in solution will accept one or more electrons from the cathode and the ion's oxidation state is...
66. ...l undergo oxidation (the anode) and the other will undergo reduction (the cathode). The metal of the anode will oxidize, going from an oxidation state of 0 (in the solid form) to a positive oxidation **state** and become an ion. At the cathode, the metal ion in solution will accept one or more electrons from the cathode and the ion's oxidation state is reduced to 0. This forms a solid metal that electrodep...
67. ...on state of 0 (in the solid form) to a positive oxidation state and become an ion. At the cathode, the metal ion in solution will accept one or more electrons from the cathode and the ion's oxidation **state** is reduced to 0. This forms a solid metal that electrodeposits on the cathode. The two electrodes must be electrically connected to each other, allowing for a flow of electrons that leave the metal o...
68. ...in 1947. However, vacuum tubes continued to play a leading role in the field of microwave and high power transmission as well as television receivers until the middle of the 1980s. Since then, solid-**state** devices have all but completely taken over. Vacuum tubes are still used in some specialist applications such as high power RF amplifiers, cathode-ray tubes, specialist audio equipment, guitar amplifi...
69. ...n 1838, Faraday also put forth a theoretical explanation of electric force, while expressing neutrality about whether it originates from one, two, or no fluids. He focused on the idea that the normal **state** of particles is to be nonpolarized, and that when polarized, they seek to return to their natural, nonpolarized state. In developing a field theory approach to electrodynamics (starting in the mid-18...
70. ...it originates from one, two, or no fluids. He focused on the idea that the normal state of particles is to be nonpolarized, and that when polarized, they seek to return to their natural, nonpolarized **state**. In developing a field theory approach to electrodynamics (starting in the mid-1850s), James Clerk Maxwell stops considering electric charge as a special substance that accumulates in objects, and st...
71. ...ht field can be decomposed into plane waves and polarizations. There are two sets of Fresnel coefficients for two different linear polarization components of the incident wave. Since any polarization **state** can be resolved into a combination of two orthogonal linear polarizations, this is sufficient for any problem. Likewise, unpolarized (or "randomly polarized") light has an equal amount of power in ea...
72. ...bers of his inner circle in the event of an atomic exchange, the structure is made up of residential areas, conference rooms, offices, strategic planning rooms, and other areas. The bunker remained a **state** secret until after the breakup of Yugoslavia in the 1990s. The facility is now under the authority of the Bosnian Ministry of Defense and is managed by the country's military, guarded by a five-soldi...
73. ...are ferromagnets at room temperature or exhibit ferromagnetism upon cooling. PuP is a paramagnet with cubic symmetry at room temperature, but which undergoes a structural transition into a tetragonal **state** with ferromagnetic order when cooled below its . In its ferromagnetic state, PuP's easy axis is in the ⟨100⟩ direction. In NpFe the easy axis is ⟨111⟩. Above , NpFe is also paramagnetic and cubic. Co...
74. ...PuP is a paramagnet with cubic symmetry at room temperature, but which undergoes a structural transition into a tetragonal state with ferromagnetic order when cooled below its . In its ferromagnetic **state**, PuP's easy axis is in the ⟨100⟩ direction. In NpFe the easy axis is ⟨111⟩. Above , NpFe is also paramagnetic and cubic. Cooling below the Curie temperature produces a rhombohedral distortion wherein...
75. ...of material magnetism, including ferromagnetism; the explanation rather depends on the quantum mechanical description of atoms. Each of an atom's electrons has a magnetic moment according to its spin **state**, as described by quantum mechanics. The Pauli exclusion principle, also a consequence of quantum mechanics, restricts the occupancy of electrons' spin states in atomic orbitals, generally causing the...
76. ...s the energy difference between these states. The exchange interaction is related to the Pauli exclusion principle, which says that two electrons with the same spin cannot also be in the same spatial **state** (orbital). This is a consequence of the spin–statistics theorem and that electrons are fermions. Therefore, under certain conditions, when the orbitals of the unpaired outer valence electrons from ad...
77. ...than when they have opposite spins. This reduces the electrostatic energy of the electrons when their spins are parallel compared to their energy when the spins are antiparallel, so the parallel-spin **state** is more stable. This difference in energy is called the exchange energy. In simple terms, the outer electrons of adjacent atoms, which repel each other, can move further apart by aligning their spins...
78. ...d seem to suggest that every piece of ferromagnetic material should have a strong magnetic field, since all the spins are aligned; yet iron and other ferromagnets are often found in an "unmagnetized" **state**. This is because a bulk piece of ferromagnetic material is divided into tiny regions called "magnetic domains" (also known as "Weiss domains"). Within each domain, the spins are aligned, but if the b...
79. ...domain walls a number of molecules thick, in which the direction of magnetization of the dipoles rotates smoothly from one domain's direction to the other. Thus, a piece of iron in its lowest energy **state** ("unmagnetized") generally has little or no net magnetic field. However, the magnetic domains in a material are not fixed in place; they are simply regions where the spins of the electrons have align...
80. ...changes in thousands of tiny discontinuous jumps as domain walls suddenly "snap" past defects. This magnetization as a function of an external field is described by a hysteresis curve. Although this **state** of aligned domains found in a piece of magnetized ferromagnetic material is not a minimal-energy configuration, it is metastable, and can persist for long periods, as shown by samples of magnetite fr...
81. ...nealing) a magnetized material, subjecting it to vibration by hammering it, or applying a rapidly oscillating magnetic field from a degaussing coil tends to release the domain walls from their pinned **state**, and the domain boundaries tend to move back to a lower energy configuration with less external magnetic field, thus demagnetizing the material. Commercial magnets are made of "hard" ferromagnetic or...
82. ...e noble metals. It is one of the least reactive chemical elements, being the second-lowest in the reactivity series. It is solid under standard conditions. Gold often occurs in free elemental (native **state**), as nuggets or grains, in rocks, veins, and alluvial deposits. It occurs in a solid solution series with the native element silver (as in electrum), naturally alloyed with other metals like copper a...
83. ...so is highly impractical and would cost far more than the value of the gold that is produced. Although gold is the most noble of the noble metals, it still forms many diverse compounds. The oxidation **state** of gold in its compounds ranges from −1 to +5, but Au(I) and Au(III) dominate its chemistry. Au(I), referred to as the aurous ion, is the most common oxidation state with soft ligands such as thioeth...
84. ...diverse compounds. The oxidation state of gold in its compounds ranges from −1 to +5, but Au(I) and Au(III) dominate its chemistry. Au(I), referred to as the aurous ion, is the most common oxidation **state** with soft ligands such as thioethers, thiolates, and organophosphines. Au(I) compounds are typically linear. A good example is , which is the soluble form of gold encountered in mining. The binary go...
85. ...ld halides, such as AuCl, form zigzag polymeric chains, again featuring linear coordination at Au. Most drugs based on gold are Au(I) derivatives. Au(III) (referred to as auric) is a common oxidation **state**, and is illustrated by gold(III) chloride, . The gold atom centers in Au(III) complexes, like other d compounds, are typically square planar, with chemical bonds that have both covalent and ionic cha...
86. ...metal is oxidized and dissolves, allowing the gold to be displaced from solution and be recovered as a solid precipitate. Less common oxidation states of gold include −1, +2, and +5. The −1 oxidation **state** occurs in aurides, compounds containing the anion. Caesium auride (CsAu), for example, crystallizes in the caesium chloride motif; rubidium, potassium, and tetramethylammonium aurides are also known....
87. ..., and tetramethylammonium aurides are also known. Gold has the highest electron affinity of any metal, at 222.8 kJ/mol, making a stable species, analogous to the halides. Gold also has a –1 oxidation **state** in covalent complexes with the group 4 transition metals, such as in titanium tetraauride and the analogous zirconium and hafnium compounds. These chemicals are expected to form gold-bridged dimers i...
88. ...edly stable at normal conditions. Gold pentafluoride, along with its derivative anion, , and its difluorine complex, gold heptafluoride, is the sole example of gold(V), the highest verified oxidation **state**. Some gold compounds exhibit "aurophilic bonding", which describes the tendency of gold ions to interact at distances that are too long to be a conventional Au–Au bond but shorter than van der Waals...
89. ...an der Waals bonding. The interaction is estimated to be comparable in strength to that of a hydrogen bond. Well-defined cluster compounds are numerous. In some cases, gold has a fractional oxidation **state**. A representative example is the octahedral species . Gold is thought to have been produced in supernova nucleosynthesis, and from the collision of neutron stars, and to have been present in the dust...
90. ...as very small to microscopic particles embedded in rock, often together with quartz or sulfide minerals such as "fool's gold", which is a pyrite. These are called lode deposits. The metal in a native **state** is also found in the form of free flakes, grains or larger nuggets that have been eroded from rocks and end up in alluvial deposits called placer deposits. Such free gold is always richer at the expo...
91. ...C. The legend of the golden fleece dating from eighth century BCE may refer to the use of fleeces to trap gold dust from placer deposits in the ancient world. From the 6th or 5th century BC, the Chu (**state**) circulated the Ying Yuan, one kind of square gold coin. In Roman metallurgy, new methods for extracting gold on a large scale were developed by introducing hydraulic mining methods, especially in Hi...
92. ...recorded history. The gold fields are confined to the northern and north-western edges of the Witwatersrand basin, which is a thick layer of archean rocks located, in most places, deep under the Free **State**, Gauteng and surrounding provinces. These Witwatersrand rocks are exposed at the surface on the Witwatersrand, in and around Johannesburg, but also in isolated patches to the south-east and south-wes...
93. ...1890s. The Bessel process was limited in use, primarily because of the abundant cleaner deposits found around the globe, which needed not much more than hand-sorting to gather the pure graphite. The **state** of the art, , is described in the Canadian Department of Mines report on graphite mines and mining when Canadian deposits began to become important producers of graphite. Historically, graphite was c...
94. ...rapid melt quenching. However, the term "glass" is often defined in a broader sense, to describe any non-crystalline (amorphous) solid that exhibits a glass transition when heated towards the liquid **state**. Glass is an amorphous solid. Although the atomic-scale structure of glass shares characteristics of the structure of a supercooled liquid, glass exhibits all the mechanical properties of a solid. As...
95. ...ently rapid (relative to the characteristic crystallization time) then crystallization is prevented and instead, the disordered atomic configuration of the supercooled liquid is frozen into the solid **state** at T. The tendency for a material to form a glass while quenched is called glass-forming ability. This ability can be predicted by the rigidity theory. Generally, a glass exists in a structurally met...
96. ...he tendency for a material to form a glass while quenched is called glass-forming ability. This ability can be predicted by the rigidity theory. Generally, a glass exists in a structurally metastable **state** with respect to its crystalline form, although in certain circumstances, for example in atactic polymers, there is no crystalline analogue of the amorphous phase. Glass is sometimes considered to be...
97. ...from this period include coloured glass ingots, vessels, and beads. Much early glass production relied on grinding techniques borrowed from stoneworking, such as grinding and carving glass in a cold **state**. The term "glass" has its origins in the late Roman Empire, in the Roman glass making centre at Trier (located in current-day Germany) where the late-Latin term "glesum" originated, likely from a Ger...
98. ...osite to the derivation below. For a simple metal where there is only one type of charge carrier (electrons), the Hall voltage can be derived by using the Lorentz force and seeing that, in the steady-**state** condition, charges are not moving in the -axis direction. Thus, the magnetic force on each electron in the -axis direction is cancelled by a -axis electrical force due to the buildup of charges. The...
99. ...harges. The term is the drift velocity of the current which is assumed at this point to be holes by convention. The term is negative in the -axis direction by the right hand rule. formula_1 In steady **state**, , so , where is assigned in the direction of the -axis, (and not with the arrow of the induced electric field as in the image (pointing in the direction), which tells you where the field caused by t...
100. ...core. Inductors radiate electromagnetic energy into surrounding space and may absorb electromagnetic emissions from other circuits, resulting in potential electromagnetic interference. An early solid-**state** electrical switching and amplifying device called a saturable reactor exploits saturation of the core as a means of stopping the inductive transfer of current via the core. The winding resistance app...
101. ...bacteria, most foods are irradiated to significantly reduce the number of active microbes, not to sterilize all microbes in the product. Irradiation cannot return spoiled or over-ripe food to a fresh **state**. If this food was processed by irradiation, further spoilage would cease and ripening would slow, yet the irradiation would not destroy the toxins or repair the texture, color, or taste of the food....
102. ...at 65.1%, poultry 20.6% and dried aromatic herbs, spices and vegetables seasoning. Due to the European Single Market, any food, even if irradiated, must be allowed to be marketed in any other member **state** even if a general ban of food irradiation prevails, under the condition that the food has been irradiated legally in the state of origin. Furthermore, imports into the EC are possible from third coun...
103. ..., even if irradiated, must be allowed to be marketed in any other member state even if a general ban of food irradiation prevails, under the condition that the food has been irradiated legally in the **state** of origin. Furthermore, imports into the EC are possible from third countries if the irradiation facility had been inspected and approved by the EC and the treatment is legal within the EC or some Me...
104. ...rigin. Furthermore, imports into the EC are possible from third countries if the irradiation facility had been inspected and approved by the EC and the treatment is legal within the EC or some Member **state**. In Australia, following cat deaths after irradiated cat food consumption and producer's voluntary recall, cat food irradiation was banned. Interlocks and safeguards are mandated to minimize this ris...
105. ...hotography soon became known to the general public as Kirlian photography. Although little interest was generated among western scientists, Russians held a conference on the subject in 1972 at Kazakh **State** University. Kirlian photography was used in the former Eastern Bloc in the 1970s. The corona discharge glow at the surface of an object subjected to a high-voltage electrical field was referred to as...
106. ..."Research of the structure of High-frequency electric discharge (Kirlian effect) images". Scientific study of what the researchers called the Kirlian effect was conducted by Victor Inyushin at Kazakh **State** University. Early in the 1970s, Thelma Moss and Kendall Johnson at the Center for Health Sciences at the UCLA conducted extensive research into Kirlian photography. Moss led an independent and unsupp...
107. ...tallic character is illustrated by its amphoteric nature; lead and lead oxides react with acids and bases, and it tends to form covalent bonds. Compounds of lead are usually found in the +2 oxidation **state** rather than the +4 state common with lighter members of the carbon group. Exceptions are mostly limited to organolead compounds. Like the lighter members of the group, lead tends to bond with itself;...
108. ...trated by its amphoteric nature; lead and lead oxides react with acids and bases, and it tends to form covalent bonds. Compounds of lead are usually found in the +2 oxidation state rather than the +4 **state** common with lighter members of the carbon group. Exceptions are mostly limited to organolead compounds. Like the lighter members of the group, lead tends to bond with itself; it can form chains and p...
109. ...have larger binding energies than its 5s electrons. A consequence is the so-called inert pair effect: the 6s electrons of lead become reluctant to participate in bonding, stabilising the +2 oxidation **state** and making the distance between nearest atoms in crystalline lead unusually long. Lead's lighter carbon group congeners form stable or metastable allotropes with the tetrahedrally coordinated and cov...
110. ...ead, their relative amounts change; this is the basis for uranium–lead dating. Lead-207 exhibits nuclear magnetic resonance, a property that has been used to study its compounds in solution and solid **state**, including in the human body. Apart from the stable isotopes, which make up almost all lead that exists naturally, there are trace quantities of a few radioactive isotopes. One of them is lead-210; a...
111. ...t. Organic acids, such as acetic acid, dissolve lead in the presence of oxygen. Concentrated alkalis dissolve lead and form plumbites. Lead shows two main oxidation states: +4 and +2. The tetravalent **state** is common for the carbon group. The divalent state is rare for carbon and silicon, minor for germanium, important (but not prevailing) for tin, and is the more important of the two oxidation states f...
112. ...d in the presence of oxygen. Concentrated alkalis dissolve lead and form plumbites. Lead shows two main oxidation states: +4 and +2. The tetravalent state is common for the carbon group. The divalent **state** is rare for carbon and silicon, minor for germanium, important (but not prevailing) for tin, and is the more important of the two oxidation states for lead. This is attributable to relativistic effec...
113. .... There is a relatively large difference in the electronegativity of lead(II) at 1.87 and lead(IV) at 2.33. This difference marks the reversal in the trend of increasing stability of the +4 oxidation **state** going down the carbon group; tin, by comparison, has values of 1.80 in the +2 oxidation state and 1.96 in the +4 state. Lead(II) compounds are characteristic of the inorganic chemistry of lead. Even...
114. ...(IV) at 2.33. This difference marks the reversal in the trend of increasing stability of the +4 oxidation state going down the carbon group; tin, by comparison, has values of 1.80 in the +2 oxidation **state** and 1.96 in the +4 state. Lead(II) compounds are characteristic of the inorganic chemistry of lead. Even strong oxidizing agents like fluorine and chlorine react with lead to give only PbF and PbCl....
115. ...ence marks the reversal in the trend of increasing stability of the +4 oxidation state going down the carbon group; tin, by comparison, has values of 1.80 in the +2 oxidation state and 1.96 in the +4 **state**. Lead(II) compounds are characteristic of the inorganic chemistry of lead. Even strong oxidizing agents like fluorine and chlorine react with lead to give only PbF and PbCl. Lead(II) ions are usually...
116. .... Some lead compounds exist in formal oxidation states other than +4 or +2. Lead(III) may be obtained, as an intermediate between lead(II) and lead(IV), in larger organolead complexes; this oxidation **state** is not stable, as both the lead(III) ion and the larger complexes containing it are radicals. The same applies for lead(I), which can be found in such radical species. Numerous mixed lead(II,IV) oxid...
117. ...lectromagnetic field in the 1950s and 1960s to gain a more detailed understanding of photodetection and the statistics of light (see degree of coherence). This led to the introduction of the coherent **state** as a concept which addressed variations between laser light, thermal light, exotic squeezed states, etc. as it became understood that light cannot be fully described just referring to the electromagn...
118. ...red. Development of short and ultrashort laser pulses—created by Q switching and modelocking techniques—opened the way to the study of what became known as ultrafast processes. Applications for solid **state** research (e.g. Raman spectroscopy) were found, and mechanical forces of light on matter were studied. The latter led to levitating and positioning clouds of atoms or even small biological samples in...
119. ...epetitive noise of an MRI scan as the windings move slightly due to magnetostriction. The contrast between different tissues is determined by the rate at which excited atoms return to the equilibrium **state**. Exogenous contrast agents may be given to the person to make the image clearer. The major components of an MRI scanner are the main magnet, which polarizes the sample, the shim coils for correcting...
120. ...of 10–100 mT) and by measuring the Larmor precession fields at about 100 microtesla with highly sensitive superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs). Each tissue returns to its equilibrium **state** after excitation by the independent relaxation processes of T (spin-lattice; that is, magnetization in the same direction as the static magnetic field) and T (spin-spin; transverse to the static magn...
121. ...bation by an oscillating magnetic field (in the form of radiofrequency pulses through the sample). The relaxation rates are a measure of the time it takes for a signal to decay back to an equilibrium **state** from either the longitudinal or transverse plane. Magnetization builds up along the z-axis in the presence of a magnetic field, B, such that the magnetic dipoles in the sample will, on average, align...
122. ...or in the xy-plane, and is then switched off. The initial magnetic field B, however, is still applied. Thus, the spin magnetization vector will slowly return from the xy-plane back to the equilibrium **state**. The time it takes for the magnetization vector to return to its equilibrium value, M, is referred to as the longitudinal relaxation time, T. Subsequently, the rate at which this happens is simply th...
123. ...sic magnetic moment's tendency to be parallel to an applied field, there is also in these materials a tendency for these magnetic moments to orient parallel to each other to maintain a lowered-energy **state**. Thus, even in the absence of an applied field, the magnetic moments of the electrons in the material spontaneously line up parallel to one another. Every ferromagnetic substance has its own individu...
124. ...omains aligned with the magnetic field grow and dominate the structure (dotted yellow area), as shown at the left. When the magnetizing field is removed, the domains may not return to an unmagnetized **state**. This results in the ferromagnetic material's being magnetized, forming a permanent magnet. When magnetized strongly enough that the prevailing domain overruns all others to result in only one single...
125. ...e first entity means "spin up", the second one "spin down"), but also the sign + by the − sign, and finally r by the discrete values "s" (= ±); thereby we have formula_25 and formula_26. The "singlet **state**", i.e. the − sign, means: the spins are "antiparallel", i.e. for the solid we have antiferromagnetism, and for two-atomic molecules one has diamagnetism. The tendency to form a (homoeopolar) chemical...
126. ...to form a (homoeopolar) chemical bond (this means: the formation of a "symmetric" molecular orbital, i.e. with the + sign) results through the Pauli principle automatically in an "antisymmetric" spin **state** (i.e. with the − sign). In contrast, the Coulomb repulsion of the electrons, i.e. the tendency that they try to avoid each other by this repulsion, would lead to an "antisymmetric" orbital function (...
127. ...t to do it. Among the systems proposed by several US and European companies were two-phase and three-phase AC, high-voltage DC, and compressed air. Adams asked Tesla for information about the current **state** of all the competing systems. Tesla advised Adams that a two-phased system would be the most reliable and that there was a Westinghouse system to light incandescent bulbs using two-phase alternating...
128. ...n of his oscillator had caused an earthquake in his 46 East Houston Street lab and neighboring streets in Lower Manhattan in 1898. He went on to tell reporters his oscillator could destroy the Empire **State** Building with of air pressure. He also proposed using his oscillators to transmit vibrations into the ground. He claimed it would work over any distance and could be used for communication or locatin...
129. ...ogy written by Slovene-American author Louis Adamic live over WNYC radio while violin pieces "Ave Maria" and "Tamo daleko" were played in the background. On 12 January, two thousand people attended a **state** funeral for Tesla at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in Manhattan. After the funeral, Tesla's body was taken to the Ferncliff Cemetery in Ardsley, New York, where it was later cremated. The foll...
130. ...of atoms being composed of smaller subatomic particles, stating there was no such thing as an electron creating an electric charge. He believed that if electrons existed at all, they were some fourth **state** of matter or "sub-atom" that could exist only in an experimental vacuum and that they had nothing to do with electricity. Tesla believed that atoms are immutable—they could not change state or be spl...
131. ...me fourth state of matter or "sub-atom" that could exist only in an experimental vacuum and that they had nothing to do with electricity. Tesla believed that atoms are immutable—they could not change **state** or be split in any way. He was a believer in the 19th-century concept of an all-pervasive ether that transmitted electrical energy. Tesla was generally antagonistic towards theories about the convers...
132. ...achelor's degree in 1932 and his doctor's degree in chemistry in 1935 from Johns Hopkins University. He taught at Johns Hopkins, Loyola College in Baltimore and the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and **State** University in Blacksburg, Virginia, before working on the Manhattan Project in World War II. He joined the University of Texas in 1945 as an assistant professor of chemistry, became an associate prof...
133. ...rpendicular components labeled and (with indicating the direction of travel). The shape traced out in the x-y plane by the electric field vector is a Lissajous figure that describes the "polarisation **state**". The following figures show some examples of the evolution of the electric field vector (blue), with time (the vertical axes), at a particular point in space, along with its and components (red/left...
134. ...hatever is viewed through them. It was this effect that provided the first discovery of polarisation, by Erasmus Bartholinus in 1669. In addition, the phase shift, and thus the change in polarisation **state**, is usually frequency dependent, which, in combination with dichroism, often gives rise to bright colours and rainbow-like effects. In mineralogy, such properties, known as pleochroism, are frequentl...
135. ...re zero. Also, the photon obeys Bose–Einstein statistics, and not Fermi–Dirac statistics. That is, they do "not" obey the Pauli exclusion principle and more than one can occupy the same bound quantum **state**. Photons are emitted in many natural processes. For example, when a charge is accelerated it emits synchrotron radiation. During a molecular, atomic or nuclear transition to a lower energy level, pho...
136. ...tion for both of the two alternative measurements: if the outcome of the position measurement is made more certain, the outcome of the momentum measurement becomes less so, and vice versa. A coherent **state** minimizes the overall uncertainty as far as quantum mechanics allows. Quantum optics makes use of coherent states for modes of the electromagnetic field. There is a tradeoff, reminiscent of the posit...
137. ...fication is equivalent to assuming that photons are rigorously identical and that it implied a "mysterious non-local interaction", now understood as the requirement for a symmetric quantum mechanical **state**. This work led to the concept of coherent states and the development of the laser. In the same papers, Einstein extended Bose's formalism to material particles (bosons) and predicted that they would...
138. ...oherent states and the development of the laser. In the same papers, Einstein extended Bose's formalism to material particles (bosons) and predicted that they would condense into their lowest quantum **state** at low enough temperatures; this Bose–Einstein condensation was observed experimentally in 1995. It was later used by Lene Hau to slow, and then completely stop, light in 1999 and 2001. The modern vi...
139. ...here are two possibilities: spontaneous emission of a photon, or the emission of a photon initiated by the interaction of the atom with a passing photon and the return of the atom to the lower-energy **state**. Following Einstein's approach, the corresponding rate formula_21 for the emission of photons of frequency formula_2 and transition from a higher energy formula_15 to a lower energy formula_14 is whe...
140. ...mitting a photon spontaneously, and formula_27 is the rate constant for emissions in response to ambient photons (induced or stimulated emission). In thermodynamic equilibrium, the number of atoms in **state** formula_28 and those in state formula_29 must, on average, be constant; hence, the rates formula_12 and formula_21 must be equal. Also, by arguments analogous to the derivation of Boltzmann statistic...
141. ..., and formula_27 is the rate constant for emissions in response to ambient photons (induced or stimulated emission). In thermodynamic equilibrium, the number of atoms in state formula_28 and those in **state** formula_29 must, on average, be constant; hence, the rates formula_12 and formula_21 must be equal. Also, by arguments analogous to the derivation of Boltzmann statistics, the ratio of formula_32 and...
142. ...1 must be equal. Also, by arguments analogous to the derivation of Boltzmann statistics, the ratio of formula_32 and formula_16 is formula_34 where formula_35 and formula_36 are the degeneracy of the **state** formula_28 and that of formula_29, respectively, formula_39 and formula_40 their energies, formula_41 the Boltzmann constant and formula_42 the system's temperature. From this, it is readily derived...
143. ...Debye's concept in a key way. As may be shown classically, the Fourier modes of the electromagnetic field—a complete set of electromagnetic plane waves indexed by their wave vector k and polarization **state**—are equivalent to a set of uncoupled simple harmonic oscillators. Treated quantum mechanically, the energy levels of such oscillators are known to be formula_53, where formula_2 is the oscillator fre...
144. ...ly, the energy levels of such oscillators are known to be formula_53, where formula_2 is the oscillator frequency. The key new step was to identify an electromagnetic mode with energy formula_53 as a **state** with formula_56 photons, each of energy formula_51. This approach gives the correct energy fluctuation formula. Dirac took this one step further. He treated the interaction between a charge and an el...
145. ...), as well as electron–photon scattering, is meant to be one of the modes of operations of the planned particle accelerator, the International Linear Collider. In modern physics notation, the quantum **state** of the electromagnetic field is written as a Fock state, a tensor product of the states for each electromagnetic mode where formula_62 represents the state in which formula_63 photons are in the mode...
146. ...one of the modes of operations of the planned particle accelerator, the International Linear Collider. In modern physics notation, the quantum state of the electromagnetic field is written as a Fock **state**, a tensor product of the states for each electromagnetic mode where formula_62 represents the state in which formula_63 photons are in the mode formula_64. In this notation, the creation of a new pho...
147. ...er. In modern physics notation, the quantum state of the electromagnetic field is written as a Fock state, a tensor product of the states for each electromagnetic mode where formula_62 represents the **state** in which formula_63 photons are in the mode formula_64. In this notation, the creation of a new photon in mode formula_64 (e.g., emitted from an atomic transition) is written as formula_66. This nota...
148. ...from a material caused by electromagnetic radiation such as ultraviolet light. Electrons emitted in this manner are called photoelectrons. The phenomenon is studied in condensed matter physics, solid **state**, and quantum chemistry to draw inferences about the properties of atoms, molecules and solids. The effect has found use in electronic devices specialized for light detection and precisely timed elect...
149. ...nding energy. The distribution of kinetic energies thus reflects the distribution of the binding energies of the electrons in the atomic, molecular or crystalline system: an electron emitted from the **state** at binding energy formula_16 is found at kinetic energy formula_17. This distribution is one of the main characteristics of the quantum system, and can be used for further studies in quantum chemistr...
150. ...e-step model fails to explain peculiarities of the photoelectron intensity distributions. The more elaborate "one-step model" treats the effect as a coherent process of photoexcitation into the final **state** of a finite crystal for which the wave function is free-electron-like outside of the crystal, but has a decaying envelope inside. In 1839, Alexandre Edmond Becquerel discovered the related photovolta...
151. ...cuum permittivity. The work "W" required to move "q" from "A" to any point "B" in the electrostatic force field is given by the potential function formula_26 The potential energy is a function of the **state** a system is in, and is defined relative to that for a particular state. This reference state is not always a real state; it may also be a limit, such as with the distances between all bodies tending...
152. ...int "B" in the electrostatic force field is given by the potential function formula_26 The potential energy is a function of the state a system is in, and is defined relative to that for a particular **state**. This reference state is not always a real state; it may also be a limit, such as with the distances between all bodies tending to infinity, provided that the energy involved in tending to that limit...
153. ...static force field is given by the potential function formula_26 The potential energy is a function of the state a system is in, and is defined relative to that for a particular state. This reference **state** is not always a real state; it may also be a limit, such as with the distances between all bodies tending to infinity, provided that the energy involved in tending to that limit is finite, such as in...
154. ...by the potential function formula_26 The potential energy is a function of the state a system is in, and is defined relative to that for a particular state. This reference state is not always a real **state**; it may also be a limit, such as with the distances between all bodies tending to infinity, provided that the energy involved in tending to that limit is finite, such as in the case of inverse-square...
155. ...h the distances between all bodies tending to infinity, provided that the energy involved in tending to that limit is finite, such as in the case of inverse-square law forces. Any arbitrary reference **state** could be used; therefore it can be chosen based on convenience. Typically the potential energy of a system depends on the "relative" positions of its components only, so the reference state can also...
156. ...reference state could be used; therefore it can be chosen based on convenience. Typically the potential energy of a system depends on the "relative" positions of its components only, so the reference **state** can also be expressed in terms of relative positions. Gravitational energy is the potential energy associated with gravitational force, as work is required to elevate objects against Earth's gravity....
157. ...significant to several Aboriginal peoples, who also used to hunt it for food. It has appeared as a national mascot, features on the reverse of the Australian twenty-cent coin, and is an emblem of the **state** of New South Wales. The platypus was hunted for its fur, but it has been a legally protected species in all states where it occurs since 1912. Its population is not under severe threat, although capt...
158. ...er mammals whose genomes have been sequenced. An updated genome, the most complete on record, was published in 2021, together with the genome of the short-beaked echidna. Except for its loss from the **state** of South Australia, the platypus occupies the same general distribution as it did prior to European settlement of Australia. However, local changes and fragmentation of distribution due to human modi...
159. ...sk of drowning in the nets of inland fisheries. The International Union for Conservation of Nature recategorised its status as "near threatened" in 2016. The species is protected by law, but the only **state** in which it is listed as endangered is South Australia, under the "National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972". In November 2020 a recommendation was made to list the platypus as a vulnerable species acros...
160. ...s and Wildlife Act 1972". In November 2020 a recommendation was made to list the platypus as a vulnerable species across all states with a vulnerable listing being made official in Victoria under the **state**'s "Flora and Fauna Guarantee Act 1988" on 10 January 2021. The platypus is not considered to be in immediate danger of extinction, because conservation measures have been successful, but it could be...
161. ...a Zoo in Sydney bred twins in 2003, and breeding was again successful there in 2006. As of 2019, the only platypuses in captivity outside of Australia are in the San Diego Zoo Safari Park in the U.S. **state** of California. Three attempts were made to bring the animals to the Bronx Zoo, in 1922, 1947, and 1958. Of these, only two of the three animals introduced in 1947, Penelope and Cecil, lived longer th...
162. ...ly applied magnetic field because thermal motion randomizes the spin orientations. (Some paramagnetic materials retain spin disorder even at absolute zero, meaning they are paramagnetic in the ground **state**, i.e. in the absence of thermal motion.) Thus the total magnetization drops to zero when the applied field is removed. Even in the presence of the field there is only a small induced magnetization be...
163. ..." is the number of unpaired electrons. In other transition metal complexes this yields a useful, if somewhat cruder, estimate. When Curie constant is null, second order effects that couple the ground **state** with the excited states can also lead to a paramagnetic susceptibility independent of the temperature, known as Van Vleck susceptibility. For some alkali metals and noble metals, conduction electrons...
164. ...n constant formula_8 may be found by normalizing the wave function. That is, it follows from formula_28 that any complex number formula_8 whose absolute value is formula_30 yields the same normalized **state**. It is expected that the "eigenvalues", i.e., the energy formula_31 of the box should be the same regardless of its position in space, but formula_32 changes. Notice that formula_33 represents a phas...
165. ...e right reduces to unity. (With care, it can be written as an even function of .) It can be seen that the momentum spectrum in this wave packet is continuous, and one may conclude that for the energy **state** described by the wave number , the momentum can, when measured, also attain "other values" beyond formula_37. Hence, it also appears that, since the energy is formula_38 for the "n"th eigenstate, the...
166. ...finding a particle at a given position is derived from the wave function as formula_41 For the particle in a box, the probability density for finding the particle at a given position depends upon its **state**, and is given by formula_42 Thus, for any value of "n" greater than one, there are regions within the box for which formula_43, indicating that "spatial nodes" exist at which the particle cannot be f...
167. ...nsity not go to zero at the nodes (apart from the trivial case formula_44). In quantum mechanics, the average, or expectation value of the position of a particle is given by formula_45 For the steady **state** particle in a box, it can be shown that the average position is always formula_46, regardless of the state of the particle. For a superposition of states, the expectation value of the position will c...
168. ...ge, or expectation value of the position of a particle is given by formula_45 For the steady state particle in a box, it can be shown that the average position is always formula_46, regardless of the **state** of the particle. For a superposition of states, the expectation value of the position will change based on the cross term, which is proportional to formula_47. The variance in the position is a measu...
169. ...y for finding a particle with a given momentum is derived from the wave function as formula_49. As with position, the probability density for finding the particle at a given momentum depends upon its **state**, and is given by formula_50 where, again, formula_35. The expectation value for the momentum is then calculated to be zero, and the variance in the momentum is calculated to be: formula_52 The uncert...
170. ...ula_66, meaning that high energy levels are separated from each other by a greater amount than low energy levels are. The lowest possible energy for the particle (its "zero-point energy") is found in **state** 1, which is given by formula_67 The particle, therefore, always has a positive energy. This contrasts with classical systems, where the particle can have zero energy by resting motionlessly. This can...
171. ...er. In this case each pair of electrons in each π bond corresponds to their energy level. The energy difference between two energy levels, "n" and "n" is: formula_87 The difference between the ground **state** energy, n, and the first excited state, n+1, corresponds to the energy required to excite the system. This energy has a specific wavelength, and therefore color of light, related by: formula_88 A com...
172. ...in each π bond corresponds to their energy level. The energy difference between two energy levels, "n" and "n" is: formula_87 The difference between the ground state energy, n, and the first excited **state**, n+1, corresponds to the energy required to excite the system. This energy has a specific wavelength, and therefore color of light, related by: formula_88 A common example of this phenomenon is in β-...
173. ...ntly built a quantum well laser that is no bigger than a grain of rice. The laser is powered by a single electron that passes through two quantum dots; a double quantum dot. The electron moves from a **state** of higher energy, to a state of lower energy whilst emitting photons in the microwave region. These photons bounce off mirrors to create a beam of light; the laser. The quantum well laser is heavily...
174. ...er that is no bigger than a grain of rice. The laser is powered by a single electron that passes through two quantum dots; a double quantum dot. The electron moves from a state of higher energy, to a **state** of lower energy whilst emitting photons in the microwave region. These photons bounce off mirrors to create a beam of light; the laser. The quantum well laser is heavily based on the interaction betw...
175. ...d "effect", which do not appear in a microscopic physical description. Several sources have claimed that Dmitri Skobeltsyn first observed the positron long before 1930, or even as early as 1923. They **state** that while using a Wilson cloud chamber in order to study the Compton effect, Skobeltsyn detected particles that acted like electrons but curved in the opposite direction in an applied magnetic field...
176. ...s nearly impossible to differentiate between cut citrine and yellow topaz visually, but they differ in hardness. Brazil is the leading producer of citrine, with much of its production coming from the **state** of Rio Grande do Sul. The name is derived from the Latin word "citrina" which means "yellow" and is also the origin of the word "citron". Sometimes citrine and amethyst can be found together in the s...
177. ...f asymptotic states that can be used to start computation of the probability amplitudes for different processes. In order to do so, we have to compute an evolution operator, which for a given initial **state** formula_46 will give a final state formula_47 in such a way to have formula_48 This technique is also known as the S-matrix. The evolution operator is obtained in the interaction picture, where time...
178. ...d to start computation of the probability amplitudes for different processes. In order to do so, we have to compute an evolution operator, which for a given initial state formula_46 will give a final **state** formula_47 in such a way to have formula_48 This technique is also known as the S-matrix. The evolution operator is obtained in the interaction picture, where time evolution is given by the interacti...
179. ...ne orders of magnitude. The nominal value of the resistance falls within the manufacturing tolerance, indicated on the component. Two typical schematic diagram symbols are as follows: The notation to **state** a resistor's value in a circuit diagram varies. One common scheme is the RKM code following IEC 60062. Rather than using a decimal separator, this notation uses a letter loosely associated with SI pr...
180. ...ed into heat which must be dissipated by the resistor's package before its temperature rises excessively. Resistors are rated according to their maximum power dissipation. Discrete resistors in solid-**state** electronic systems are typically rated as , , or watt. They usually absorb much less than a watt of electrical power and require little attention to their power rating. Power resistors are required t...
181. ...ch is the reason for the blue color of the daytime and twilight sky, as well as the yellowish to reddish hue of the low Sun. Sunlight is also subject to Raman scattering, which changes the rotational **state** of the molecules and gives rise to polarization effects. Scattering by particles with a size comparable to, or larger than, the wavelength of the light is typically treated by the Mie theory, the dis...
182. ...e more slowly. One of the major limitations of photon radiation therapy is that the cells of solid tumors become deficient in oxygen. Solid tumors can outgrow their blood supply, causing a low-oxygen **state** known as hypoxia. Oxygen is a potent radiosensitizer, increasing the effectiveness of a given dose of radiation by forming DNA-damaging free radicals. Tumor cells in a hypoxic environment may be as m...
183. ...perations. The traditional electromechanical form of a relay uses an electromagnet to close or open the contacts, but relays using other operating principles have also been invented, such as in solid-**state** relays which use semiconductor properties for control without relying on moving parts. Relays with calibrated operating characteristics and sometimes multiple operating coils are used to protect elec...
184. ...n interrupting the circuit. Some relays have field-replaceable contacts, such as certain machine tool relays; these may be replaced when worn out, or changed between normally open and normally closed **state**, to allow for changes in the controlled circuit. Since relays are switches, the terminology applied to switches is also applied to relays; a relay switches one or more "poles", each of whose contacts...
185. ...13849-2 as Basic safety principles and Well-tried safety principles for machinery that applies to all machines. Force-guided contacts by themselves can not guarantee that all contacts are in the same **state**, however, they do guarantee, subject to no gross mechanical fault, that no contacts are in opposite states. Otherwise, a relay with several normally open (NO) contacts may stick when energized, with...
186. ...ssible to reliably ensure that any particular contact is closed, except by potentially intrusive and safety-degrading sensing of its circuit conditions, however in safety systems it is usually the NO **state** that is most important, and as explained above, this is reliably verifiable by detecting the closure of a contact of opposite sense. Force-guided contact relays are made with different main contact s...
187. ...-spring relays or reed relays by feeding an output wire back as an input, resulting in a feedback loop or sequential circuit. Such an electrically latching relay requires continuous power to maintain **state**, unlike magnetically latching relays or mechanically ratcheting relays. While "(self-)holding circuits" are often realized with relays they can also be implemented by other means. In computer memorie...
188. ...which generally implement protection functions. In the event of a hazard, the task of such a safety function is to use appropriate measures to reduce the existing risk to an acceptable level. A solid-**state** contactor is a heavy-duty solid state relay, including the necessary heat sink, used where frequent on-off cycles are required, such as with electric heaters, small electric motors, and lighting load...
189. ...unctions. In the event of a hazard, the task of such a safety function is to use appropriate measures to reduce the existing risk to an acceptable level. A solid-state contactor is a heavy-duty solid **state** relay, including the necessary heat sink, used where frequent on-off cycles are required, such as with electric heaters, small electric motors, and lighting loads. There are no moving parts to wear o...
190. ...d by AC control signals or DC control signals from programmable logic controllers (PLCs), PCs, transistor-transistor logic (TTL) sources, or other microprocessor and microcontroller controls. A solid-**state** relay (SSR) is a solid state electronic component that provides a function similar to an electromechanical relay but does not have any moving components, increasing long-term reliability. A solid-sta...
191. ...control signals from programmable logic controllers (PLCs), PCs, transistor-transistor logic (TTL) sources, or other microprocessor and microcontroller controls. A solid-state relay (SSR) is a solid **state** electronic component that provides a function similar to an electromechanical relay but does not have any moving components, increasing long-term reliability. A solid-state relay uses a thyristor, TR...
192. ...ate relay (SSR) is a solid state electronic component that provides a function similar to an electromechanical relay but does not have any moving components, increasing long-term reliability. A solid-**state** relay uses a thyristor, TRIAC or other solid-state switching device, activated by the control signal, to switch the controlled load, instead of a solenoid. An optocoupler (a light-emitting diode (LED...
193. ...nt that provides a function similar to an electromechanical relay but does not have any moving components, increasing long-term reliability. A solid-state relay uses a thyristor, TRIAC or other solid-**state** switching device, activated by the control signal, to switch the controlled load, instead of a solenoid. An optocoupler (a light-emitting diode (LED) coupled with a photo transistor) can be used to i...
194. ...h-inductance circuits such as motors, other issues must be addressed. When an inductance is connected to a power source, an input surge current or electromotor starting current larger than the steady-**state** current exists. When the circuit is broken, the current cannot change instantaneously, which creates a potentially damaging arc across the separating contacts. Consequently, for relays used to contro...
195. ...by quantum mechanics. It is characterized by the Meissner effect, the complete cancelation of the magnetic field in the interior of the superconductor during its transitions into the superconducting **state**. The occurrence of the Meissner effect indicates that superconductivity cannot be understood simply as the idealization of "perfect conductivity" in classical physics. In 1986, it was discovered that...
196. ...nt of the Planck constant. Josephson was awarded the Nobel Prize for this work in 1973. In 2008, it was proposed that the same mechanism that produces superconductivity could produce a superinsulator **state** in some materials, with almost infinite electrical resistance. The first development and study of superconducting Bose–Einstein condensate (BEC) in 2020 suggests that there is a "smooth transition be...
197. ...orms according to a non-trivial irreducible representation of the point group or space group of the system. A superconductor is generally considered "high-temperature" if it reaches a superconducting **state** above a temperature of 30 K (−243.15 °C); as in the initial discovery by Georg Bednorz and K. Alex Müller. It may also reference materials that transition to superconductivity when cooled using liqui...
198. ...estroyed. On the other hand, there is a class of properties that are independent of the underlying material. The Meissner effect, the quantization of the magnetic flux or permanent currents, i.e. the **state** of zero resistance are the most important examples. The existence of these "universal" properties is rooted in the nature of the broken symmetry of the superconductor and the emergence of off-diagona...
199. ...xactly cancels the applied field. The Meissner effect is distinct from thisit is the spontaneous expulsion that occurs during transition to superconductivity. Suppose we have a material in its normal **state**, containing a constant internal magnetic field. When the material is cooled below the critical temperature, we would observe the abrupt expulsion of the internal magnetic field, which we would not ex...
200. ...the magnetic field in a superconductor decays exponentially from whatever value it possesses at the surface. A superconductor with little or no magnetic field within it is said to be in the Meissner **state**. The Meissner state breaks down when the applied magnetic field is too large. Superconductors can be divided into two classes according to how this breakdown occurs. In Type I superconductors, superc...
201. ...in a superconductor decays exponentially from whatever value it possesses at the surface. A superconductor with little or no magnetic field within it is said to be in the Meissner state. The Meissner **state** breaks down when the applied magnetic field is too large. Superconductors can be divided into two classes according to how this breakdown occurs. In Type I superconductors, superconductivity is abrup...
202. ...perconductors, superconductivity is abruptly destroyed when the strength of the applied field rises above a critical value "H". Depending on the geometry of the sample, one may obtain an intermediate **state** consisting of a baroque pattern of regions of normal material carrying a magnetic field mixed with regions of superconducting material containing no field. In Type II superconductors, raising the app...
203. ...material carrying a magnetic field mixed with regions of superconducting material containing no field. In Type II superconductors, raising the applied field past a critical value "H" leads to a mixed **state** (also known as the vortex state) in which an increasing amount of magnetic flux penetrates the material, but there remains no resistance to the flow of electric current as long as the current is not...
204. ...ld mixed with regions of superconducting material containing no field. In Type II superconductors, raising the applied field past a critical value "H" leads to a mixed state (also known as the vortex **state**) in which an increasing amount of magnetic flux penetrates the material, but there remains no resistance to the flow of electric current as long as the current is not too large. At a second critical...
205. ...e material, but there remains no resistance to the flow of electric current as long as the current is not too large. At a second critical field strength "H", superconductivity is destroyed. The mixed **state** is actually caused by vortices in the electronic superfluid, sometimes called fluxons because the flux carried by these vortices is quantized. Most pure elemental superconductors, except niobium and...
206. ...tion, a superconductor–insulator–superconductor Josephson junction can be used as a photon detector or as a mixer. The large resistance change at the transition from the normal to the superconducting **state** is used to build thermometers in cryogenic micro-calorimeter photon detectors. The same effect is used in ultrasensitive bolometers made from superconducting materials. Superconducting nanowire singl...
207. ...rbital), but has higher second and third ionisation energies than copper and gold (showing the stability of the 4d orbitals), so that the chemistry of silver is predominantly that of the +1 oxidation **state**, reflecting the increasingly limited range of oxidation states along the transition series as the d-orbitals fill and stabilise. Unlike copper, for which the larger hydration energy of Cu as compared...
208. ...electron affinity of 125.6 kJ/mol is much higher than that of hydrogen (72.8 kJ/mol) and not much less than that of oxygen (141.0 kJ/mol). Due to its full d-subshell, silver in its main +1 oxidation **state** exhibits relatively few properties of the transition metals proper from groups 4 to 10, forming rather unstable organometallic compounds, forming linear complexes showing very low coordination number...
209. ...mplexes showing very low coordination numbers like 2, and forming an amphoteric oxide as well as Zintl phases like the post-transition metals. Unlike the preceding transition metals, the +1 oxidation **state** of silver is stable even in the absence of π-acceptor ligands. Silver does not react with air, even at red heat, and thus was considered by alchemists as a noble metal, along with gold. Its reactivit...
210. ...er in the presence of an excess of cyanide ions. Silver cyanide solutions are used in electroplating of silver. The common oxidation states of silver are (in order of commonness): +1 (the most stable **state**; for example, silver nitrate, AgNO); +2 (highly oxidising; for example, silver(II) fluoride, AgF); and even very rarely +3 (extreme oxidising; for example, potassium tetrafluoroargentate(III), KAgF)....
211. ...ample, silver nitrate, AgNO); +2 (highly oxidising; for example, silver(II) fluoride, AgF); and even very rarely +3 (extreme oxidising; for example, potassium tetrafluoroargentate(III), KAgF). The +3 **state** requires very strong oxidising agents to attain, such as fluorine or peroxodisulfate, and some silver(III) compounds react with atmospheric moisture and attack glass. Indeed, silver(III) fluoride is...
212. ...rally necessary to give the more stable complexes with heterocyclic amines, such as [Ag(py)] and [Ag(bipy)]: these are stable provided the counterion cannot reduce the silver back to the +1 oxidation **state**. [AgF] is also known in its violet barium salt, as are some silver(II) complexes with "N"- or "O"-donor ligands such as pyridine carboxylates. By far the most important oxidation state for silver in...
213. ...e +1 oxidation state. [AgF] is also known in its violet barium salt, as are some silver(II) complexes with "N"- or "O"-donor ligands such as pyridine carboxylates. By far the most important oxidation **state** for silver in complexes is +1. The Ag cation is diamagnetic, like its homologues Cu and Au, as all three have closed-shell electron configurations with no unpaired electrons: its complexes are colour...
214. ...nductor diode used in early radio receivers. Developments in quantum physics led in turn to the invention of the transistor in 1947 and the integrated circuit in 1958. Semiconductors in their natural **state** are poor conductors because a current requires the flow of electrons, and semiconductors have their valence bands filled, preventing the entire flow of new electrons. Several developed techniques all...
215. ...d structure of the material. Electrical conductivity arises due to the presence of electrons in states that are delocalized (extending through the material), however in order to transport electrons a **state** must be "partially filled", containing an electron only part of the time. If the state is always occupied with an electron, then it is inert, blocking the passage of other electrons via that state. T...
216. ...trons in states that are delocalized (extending through the material), however in order to transport electrons a state must be "partially filled", containing an electron only part of the time. If the **state** is always occupied with an electron, then it is inert, blocking the passage of other electrons via that state. The energies of these quantum states are critical since a state is partially filled only...
217. ...a state must be "partially filled", containing an electron only part of the time. If the state is always occupied with an electron, then it is inert, blocking the passage of other electrons via that **state**. The energies of these quantum states are critical since a state is partially filled only if its energy is near the Fermi level (see Fermi–Dirac statistics). High conductivity in material comes from...
218. ...part of the time. If the state is always occupied with an electron, then it is inert, blocking the passage of other electrons via that state. The energies of these quantum states are critical since a **state** is partially filled only if its energy is near the Fermi level (see Fermi–Dirac statistics). High conductivity in material comes from it having many partially filled states and much state delocalizat...
219. ...cal since a state is partially filled only if its energy is near the Fermi level (see Fermi–Dirac statistics). High conductivity in material comes from it having many partially filled states and much **state** delocalization. Metals are good electrical conductors and have many partially filled states with energies near their Fermi level. Insulators, by contrast, have few partially filled states, their Ferm...
220. ...n the form of phonons) or radiation (in the form of photons). In some states, the generation and recombination of electron–hole pairs are in equipoise. The number of electron-hole pairs in the steady **state** at a given temperature is determined by quantum statistical mechanics. The precise quantum mechanical mechanisms of generation and recombination are governed by the conservation of energy and conserv...
221. ...ned by the conservation of energy and conservation of momentum. As the probability that electrons and holes meet together is proportional to the product of their numbers, the product is in the steady-**state** nearly constant at a given temperature, providing that there is no significant electric field (which might "flush" carriers of both types, or move them from neighbor regions containing more of them t...
222. ...s – impurities or dislocations which can trap an electron or hole and hold it until a pair is completed. Such carrier traps are sometimes purposely added to reduce the time needed to reach the steady-**state**. The conductivity of semiconductors may easily be modified by introducing impurities into their crystal lattice. The process of adding controlled impurities to a semiconductor is known as doping. The...
223. ...ements. Group III elements all contain three valence electrons, causing them to function as acceptors when used to dope silicon. When an acceptor atom replaces a silicon atom in the crystal, a vacant **state** (an electron "hole") is created, which can move around the lattice and function as a charge carrier. Group V elements have five valence electrons, which allows them to act as a donor; substitution of...
224. ...ctor body by contact with gaseous compounds of the desired element, or ion implantation can be used to accurately position the doped regions. Some materials, when rapidly cooled to a glassy amorphous **state**, have semiconducting properties. These include B, Si, Ge, Se, and Te, and there are multiple theories to explain them. The history of the understanding of semiconductors begins with experiments on th...
225. ...ceased when the wires are cleaned. William Grylls Adams and Richard Evans Day observed the photovoltaic effect in selenium in 1876. A unified explanation of these phenomena required a theory of solid-**state** physics, which developed greatly in the first half of the 20th century. In 1878 Edwin Herbert Hall demonstrated the deflection of flowing charge carriers by an applied magnetic field, the Hall effect...
226. ...evelopment of silicon materials occurred during the war to develop detectors of consistent quality. Detector and power rectifiers could not amplify a signal. Many efforts were made to develop a solid-**state** amplifier and were successful in developing a device called the point contact transistor which could amplify 20 dB or more. In 1922, Oleg Losev developed two-terminal, negative resistance amplifiers...
227. ...the Siege of Leningrad after successful completion. In 1926, Julius Edgar Lilienfeld patented a device resembling a field-effect transistor, but it was not practical. and in 1938 demonstrated a solid-**state** amplifier using a structure resembling the control grid of a vacuum tube; although the device displayed power gain, it had a cut-off frequency of one cycle per second, too low for any practical appli...
228. ...equency of one cycle per second, too low for any practical applications, but an effective application of the available theory. At Bell Labs, William Shockley and A. Holden started investigating solid-**state** amplifiers in 1938. The first p–n junction in silicon was observed by Russell Ohl about 1941 when a specimen was found to be light-sensitive, with a sharp boundary between p-type impurity at one end...
229. ...me used to measure the magnetization of the nanoparticles is much longer than the Néel relaxation time, their magnetization appears to be on average zero; they are said to be in the superparamagnetic **state**. In this state, an external magnetic field is able to magnetize the nanoparticles, similarly to a paramagnet. However, their magnetic susceptibility is much larger than that of paramagnets. Normally,...
230. ...ure the magnetization of the nanoparticles is much longer than the Néel relaxation time, their magnetization appears to be on average zero; they are said to be in the superparamagnetic state. In this **state**, an external magnetic field is able to magnetize the nanoparticles, similarly to a paramagnet. However, their magnetic susceptibility is much larger than that of paramagnets. Normally, any ferromagne...
231. ...milarly to a paramagnet. However, their magnetic susceptibility is much larger than that of paramagnets. Normally, any ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic material undergoes a transition to a paramagnetic **state** above its Curie temperature. Superparamagnetism is different from this standard transition since it occurs below the Curie temperature of the material. Superparamagnetism occurs in nanoparticles whic...
232. ...nt, so the measured magnetization will be what the instantaneous magnetization was at the beginning of the measurement. In the former case, the nanoparticle will appear to be in the superparamagnetic **state** whereas in the latter case it will appear to be “blocked” in its initial state. The state of the nanoparticle (superparamagnetic or blocked) depends on the measurement time. A transition between supe...
233. ...was at the beginning of the measurement. In the former case, the nanoparticle will appear to be in the superparamagnetic state whereas in the latter case it will appear to be “blocked” in its initial **state**. The state of the nanoparticle (superparamagnetic or blocked) depends on the measurement time. A transition between superparamagnetism and blocked state occurs when formula_8. In several experiments,...
234. ...beginning of the measurement. In the former case, the nanoparticle will appear to be in the superparamagnetic state whereas in the latter case it will appear to be “blocked” in its initial state. The **state** of the nanoparticle (superparamagnetic or blocked) depends on the measurement time. A transition between superparamagnetism and blocked state occurs when formula_8. In several experiments, the measur...
235. ...it will appear to be “blocked” in its initial state. The state of the nanoparticle (superparamagnetic or blocked) depends on the measurement time. A transition between superparamagnetism and blocked **state** occurs when formula_8. In several experiments, the measurement time is kept constant but the temperature is varied, so the transition between superparamagnetism and blocked state is seen as a functio...
236. ...agnetism and blocked state occurs when formula_8. In several experiments, the measurement time is kept constant but the temperature is varied, so the transition between superparamagnetism and blocked **state** is seen as a function of the temperature. The temperature for which formula_8 is called the "blocking temperature": For typical laboratory measurements, the value of the logarithm in the previous equ...
237. ...paramagnetic limit. Spontaneous emission Spontaneous emission is the process in which a quantum mechanical system (such as a molecule, an atom or a subatomic particle) transits from an excited energy **state** to a lower energy state (e.g., its ground state) and emits a quantized amount of energy in the form of a photon. Spontaneous emission is ultimately responsible for most of the light we see all around...
238. ...taneous emission Spontaneous emission is the process in which a quantum mechanical system (such as a molecule, an atom or a subatomic particle) transits from an excited energy state to a lower energy **state** (e.g., its ground state) and emits a quantized amount of energy in the form of a photon. Spontaneous emission is ultimately responsible for most of the light we see all around us; it is so ubiquitous...
239. ...eous emission is the process in which a quantum mechanical system (such as a molecule, an atom or a subatomic particle) transits from an excited energy state to a lower energy state (e.g., its ground **state**) and emits a quantized amount of energy in the form of a photon. Spontaneous emission is ultimately responsible for most of the light we see all around us; it is so ubiquitous that there are many nam...
240. ...uum field. These experiments gave rise to cavity quantum electrodynamics (CQED), the study of effects of mirrors and cavities on radiative corrections. If a light source ('the atom') is in an excited **state** with energy formula_1, it may spontaneously decay to a lower lying level (e.g., the ground state) with energy formula_2, releasing the difference in energy between the two states as a photon. The pho...
241. ...ects of mirrors and cavities on radiative corrections. If a light source ('the atom') is in an excited state with energy formula_1, it may spontaneously decay to a lower lying level (e.g., the ground **state**) with energy formula_2, releasing the difference in energy between the two states as a photon. The photon will have angular frequency formula_3 and an energy formula_4: where formula_6 is the reduced...
242. ...the photon propagates. This is not true for stimulated emission. An energy level diagram illustrating the process of spontaneous emission is shown below: If the number of light sources in the excited **state** at time formula_10 is given by formula_11, the rate at which formula_12 decays is: where formula_14 is the rate of spontaneous emission. In the rate-equation formula_14 is a proportionality constant...
243. ...source. The constant is referred to as the "Einstein A coefficient", and has units s.  The above equation can be solved to give: where formula_17 is the initial number of light sources in the excited **state**, formula_10 is the time and formula_19 is the radiative decay rate of the transition. The number of excited states formula_12 thus decays exponentially with time, similar to radioactive decay. After...
244. ...e electronic energy levels were quantized, but the electromagnetic field was not. Given that the eigenstates of an atom are properly diagonalized, the overlap of the wavefunctions between the excited **state** and the ground state of the atom is zero. Thus, in the absence of a quantized electromagnetic field, the excited state atom cannot decay to the ground state. In order to explain spontaneous transitio...
245. ...evels were quantized, but the electromagnetic field was not. Given that the eigenstates of an atom are properly diagonalized, the overlap of the wavefunctions between the excited state and the ground **state** of the atom is zero. Thus, in the absence of a quantized electromagnetic field, the excited state atom cannot decay to the ground state. In order to explain spontaneous transitions, quantum mechanics...
246. ...are properly diagonalized, the overlap of the wavefunctions between the excited state and the ground state of the atom is zero. Thus, in the absence of a quantized electromagnetic field, the excited **state** atom cannot decay to the ground state. In order to explain spontaneous transitions, quantum mechanics must be extended to a quantum field theory, wherein the electromagnetic field is quantized at eve...
247. ...p of the wavefunctions between the excited state and the ground state of the atom is zero. Thus, in the absence of a quantized electromagnetic field, the excited state atom cannot decay to the ground **state**. In order to explain spontaneous transitions, quantum mechanics must be extended to a quantum field theory, wherein the electromagnetic field is quantized at every point in space. The quantum field t...
248. ...every point in space. The quantum field theory of electrons and electromagnetic fields is known as quantum electrodynamics. In quantum electrodynamics (or QED), the electromagnetic field has a ground **state**, the QED vacuum, which can mix with the excited stationary states of the atom. As a result of this interaction, the "stationary state" of the atom is no longer a true eigenstate of the combined syste...
249. ...electrodynamics (or QED), the electromagnetic field has a ground state, the QED vacuum, which can mix with the excited stationary states of the atom. As a result of this interaction, the "stationary **state**" of the atom is no longer a true eigenstate of the combined system of the atom plus electromagnetic field. In particular, the electron transition from the excited state to the electronic ground state...
250. ...s interaction, the "stationary state" of the atom is no longer a true eigenstate of the combined system of the atom plus electromagnetic field. In particular, the electron transition from the excited **state** to the electronic ground state mixes with the transition of the electromagnetic field from the ground state to an excited state, a field state with one photon in it. Spontaneous emission in free spac...
251. ...state" of the atom is no longer a true eigenstate of the combined system of the atom plus electromagnetic field. In particular, the electron transition from the excited state to the electronic ground **state** mixes with the transition of the electromagnetic field from the ground state to an excited state, a field state with one photon in it. Spontaneous emission in free space depends upon vacuum fluctuati...
252. ...he atom plus electromagnetic field. In particular, the electron transition from the excited state to the electronic ground state mixes with the transition of the electromagnetic field from the ground **state** to an excited state, a field state with one photon in it. Spontaneous emission in free space depends upon vacuum fluctuations to get started. Although there is only one electronic transition from the...
253. ...magnetic field. In particular, the electron transition from the excited state to the electronic ground state mixes with the transition of the electromagnetic field from the ground state to an excited **state**, a field state with one photon in it. Spontaneous emission in free space depends upon vacuum fluctuations to get started. Although there is only one electronic transition from the excited state to gr...
254. ...In particular, the electron transition from the excited state to the electronic ground state mixes with the transition of the electromagnetic field from the ground state to an excited state, a field **state** with one photon in it. Spontaneous emission in free space depends upon vacuum fluctuations to get started. Although there is only one electronic transition from the excited state to ground state, the...
255. ...cited state, a field state with one photon in it. Spontaneous emission in free space depends upon vacuum fluctuations to get started. Although there is only one electronic transition from the excited **state** to ground state, there are many ways in which the electromagnetic field may go from the ground state to a one-photon state. That is, the electromagnetic field has infinitely more degrees of freedom,...
256. ...ield state with one photon in it. Spontaneous emission in free space depends upon vacuum fluctuations to get started. Although there is only one electronic transition from the excited state to ground **state**, there are many ways in which the electromagnetic field may go from the ground state to a one-photon state. That is, the electromagnetic field has infinitely more degrees of freedom, corresponding to...
257. ...uum fluctuations to get started. Although there is only one electronic transition from the excited state to ground state, there are many ways in which the electromagnetic field may go from the ground **state** to a one-photon state. That is, the electromagnetic field has infinitely more degrees of freedom, corresponding to the different directions in which the photon can be emitted. Equivalently, one might...
258. ...t started. Although there is only one electronic transition from the excited state to ground state, there are many ways in which the electromagnetic field may go from the ground state to a one-photon **state**. That is, the electromagnetic field has infinitely more degrees of freedom, corresponding to the different directions in which the photon can be emitted. Equivalently, one might say that the phase sp...
259. ...irreversible decay, i.e., spontaneous emission. In the presence of electromagnetic vacuum modes, the combined atom-vacuum system is explained by the superposition of the wavefunctions of the excited **state** atom with no photon and the ground state atom with a single emitted photon: where formula_26 and formula_27 are the atomic excited state-electromagnetic vacuum wavefunction and its probability amplit...
260. ...ission. In the presence of electromagnetic vacuum modes, the combined atom-vacuum system is explained by the superposition of the wavefunctions of the excited state atom with no photon and the ground **state** atom with a single emitted photon: where formula_26 and formula_27 are the atomic excited state-electromagnetic vacuum wavefunction and its probability amplitude, formula_28 and formula_29 are the gr...
261. ...ained by the superposition of the wavefunctions of the excited state atom with no photon and the ground state atom with a single emitted photon: where formula_26 and formula_27 are the atomic excited **state**-electromagnetic vacuum wavefunction and its probability amplitude, formula_28 and formula_29 are the ground state atom with a single photon (of mode formula_30) wavefunction and its probability ampli...
262. ...with a single emitted photon: where formula_26 and formula_27 are the atomic excited state-electromagnetic vacuum wavefunction and its probability amplitude, formula_28 and formula_29 are the ground **state** atom with a single photon (of mode formula_30) wavefunction and its probability amplitude, formula_31 is the atomic transition frequency, and formula_32 is the frequency of the photon. The sum is ove...
263. ...s a chance to be emitted with different wavenumbers and polarizations, and the resulting wavefunction is a superposition of these possibilities. To calculate the probability of the atom at the ground **state** (formula_35), one needs to solve the time evolution of the wavefunction with an appropriate Hamiltonian. To solve for the transition amplitude, one needs to average over (integrate over) all the vacu...
264. ...parts of phase space equally. The "spontaneously" emitted photon has infinite different modes to propagate into, thus the probability of the atom re-absorbing the photon and returning to the original **state** is negligible, making the atomic decay practically irreversible. Such irreversible time evolution of the atom-vacuum system is responsible for the apparent spontaneous decay of an excited atom. If on...
265. ...ion). Meta-stable states form a very important feature that is exploited in the construction of lasers. Specifically, since electrons decay slowly from them, they can be deliberately piled up in this **state** without too much loss and then stimulated emission can be used to boost an optical signal. If emission leaves a system in an excited state, additional transitions can occur, leading to atomic radiati...
266. ...slowly from them, they can be deliberately piled up in this state without too much loss and then stimulated emission can be used to boost an optical signal. If emission leaves a system in an excited **state**, additional transitions can occur, leading to atomic radiative cascade. For example, if calcium atoms a low pressure atomic beam are excited by ultraviolet light from their in the 4S ground state to...
267. ...ted state, additional transitions can occur, leading to atomic radiative cascade. For example, if calcium atoms a low pressure atomic beam are excited by ultraviolet light from their in the 4S ground **state** to the 6P state, they can decay in three steps, first to 6S then to 4P and finally to the ground state. The photons from the second and third transitions have correlated polarizations demonstrating q...
268. ...ional transitions can occur, leading to atomic radiative cascade. For example, if calcium atoms a low pressure atomic beam are excited by ultraviolet light from their in the 4S ground state to the 6P **state**, they can decay in three steps, first to 6S then to 4P and finally to the ground state. The photons from the second and third transitions have correlated polarizations demonstrating quantum entanglem...
269. ...um atoms a low pressure atomic beam are excited by ultraviolet light from their in the 4S ground state to the 6P state, they can decay in three steps, first to 6S then to 4P and finally to the ground **state**. The photons from the second and third transitions have correlated polarizations demonstrating quantum entanglement. These correlations were used by John Clauser and Alain Aspect in work that contrib...
270. ...l prize in physics. Stimulated emission Stimulated emission is the process by which an incoming photon of a specific frequency can interact with an excited atomic electron (or other excited molecular **state**), causing it to drop to a lower energy level. The liberated energy transfers to the electromagnetic field, creating a new photon with a frequency, polarization, and direction of travel that are all i...
271. ...el that are all identical to the photons of the incident wave. This is in contrast to spontaneous emission, which occurs at a characteristic rate for each of the atoms/oscillators in the upper energy **state** regardless of the external electromagnetic field. According to the American Physical Society, the first person to correctly predict the phenomenon of stimulated emission was Albert Einstein in a seri...
272. ...above. This leads to emission lines and absorption lines. When an electron is excited from a lower to a higher energy level, it is unlikely for it to stay that way forever. An electron in an excited **state** may decay to a lower energy state which is not occupied, according to a particular time constant characterizing that transition. When such an electron decays without external influence, emitting a ph...
273. ...es and absorption lines. When an electron is excited from a lower to a higher energy level, it is unlikely for it to stay that way forever. An electron in an excited state may decay to a lower energy **state** which is not occupied, according to a particular time constant characterizing that transition. When such an electron decays without external influence, emitting a photon, that is called "spontaneous...
274. ...ternal influence, emitting a photon, that is called "spontaneous emission". The phase and direction associated with the photon that is emitted is random. A material with many atoms in such an excited **state** may thus result in radiation which has a narrow spectrum (centered around one wavelength of light), but the individual photons would have no common phase relationship and would also emanate in random...
275. ...anate in random directions. This is the mechanism of fluorescence and thermal emission. An external electromagnetic field at a frequency associated with a transition can affect the quantum mechanical **state** of the atom without being absorbed. As the electron in the atom makes a transition between two stationary states (neither of which shows a dipole field), it enters a transition state which does have...
276. ...antum mechanical state of the atom without being absorbed. As the electron in the atom makes a transition between two stationary states (neither of which shows a dipole field), it enters a transition **state** which does have a dipole field, and which acts like a small electric dipole, and this dipole oscillates at a characteristic frequency. In response to the external electric field at this frequency, th...
277. ...small electric dipole, and this dipole oscillates at a characteristic frequency. In response to the external electric field at this frequency, the probability of the electron entering this transition **state** is greatly increased. Thus, the rate of transitions between two stationary states is increased beyond that of spontaneous emission. A transition from the higher to a lower energy state produces an ad...
278. ...his transition state is greatly increased. Thus, the rate of transitions between two stationary states is increased beyond that of spontaneous emission. A transition from the higher to a lower energy **state** produces an additional photon with the same phase and direction as the incident photon; this is the process of stimulated emission. Stimulated emission was a theoretical discovery by Albert Einstein...
279. ...ntum electrodynamics and quantum optics by several decades. Stimulated emission can be modelled mathematically by considering an atom that may be in one of two electronic energy states, a lower level **state** (possibly the ground state) (1) and an "excited state" (2), with energies "E" and "E" respectively. If the atom is in the excited state, it may decay into the lower state by the process of spontaneou...
280. ...antum optics by several decades. Stimulated emission can be modelled mathematically by considering an atom that may be in one of two electronic energy states, a lower level state (possibly the ground **state**) (1) and an "excited state" (2), with energies "E" and "E" respectively. If the atom is in the excited state, it may decay into the lower state by the process of spontaneous emission, releasing the d...
281. ...ades. Stimulated emission can be modelled mathematically by considering an atom that may be in one of two electronic energy states, a lower level state (possibly the ground state) (1) and an "excited **state**" (2), with energies "E" and "E" respectively. If the atom is in the excited state, it may decay into the lower state by the process of spontaneous emission, releasing the difference in energies betwe...
282. ...at may be in one of two electronic energy states, a lower level state (possibly the ground state) (1) and an "excited state" (2), with energies "E" and "E" respectively. If the atom is in the excited **state**, it may decay into the lower state by the process of spontaneous emission, releasing the difference in energies between the two states as a photon. The photon will have frequency "ν" and energy "hν",...
283. ...energy states, a lower level state (possibly the ground state) (1) and an "excited state" (2), with energies "E" and "E" respectively. If the atom is in the excited state, it may decay into the lower **state** by the process of spontaneous emission, releasing the difference in energies between the two states as a photon. The photon will have frequency "ν" and energy "hν", given by: formula_1 where "h" is t...
284. ...the difference in energies between the two states as a photon. The photon will have frequency "ν" and energy "hν", given by: formula_1 where "h" is the Planck constant. Alternatively, if the excited-**state** atom is perturbed by an electric field of frequency "ν", it may emit an additional photon of the same frequency and in phase, thus augmenting the external field, leaving the atom in the lower energy...
285. ...atom is perturbed by an electric field of frequency "ν", it may emit an additional photon of the same frequency and in phase, thus augmenting the external field, leaving the atom in the lower energy **state**. This process is known as stimulated emission. In a group of such atoms, if the number of atoms in the excited state is given by "N", the rate at which stimulated emission occurs is given by formula_...
286. ...in phase, thus augmenting the external field, leaving the atom in the lower energy state. This process is known as stimulated emission. In a group of such atoms, if the number of atoms in the excited **state** is given by "N", the rate at which stimulated emission occurs is given by formula_2 where the proportionality constant "B" is known as the "Einstein B coefficient" for that particular transition, and...
287. ...fficient" for that particular transition, and "ρ"("ν") is the radiation density of the incident field at frequency "ν". The rate of emission is thus proportional to the number of atoms in the excited **state** "N", and to the density of incident photons. At the same time, there will be a process of atomic absorption which "removes" energy from the field while raising electrons from the lower state to the u...
288. ...excited state "N", and to the density of incident photons. At the same time, there will be a process of atomic absorption which "removes" energy from the field while raising electrons from the lower **state** to the upper state. Its rate is precisely the negative of the stimulated emission rate, formula_3 The rate of absorption is thus proportional to the number of atoms in the lower state, "N". The B coe...
289. ...and to the density of incident photons. At the same time, there will be a process of atomic absorption which "removes" energy from the field while raising electrons from the lower state to the upper **state**. Its rate is precisely the negative of the stimulated emission rate, formula_3 The rate of absorption is thus proportional to the number of atoms in the lower state, "N". The B coefficients can be ca...
290. ...from the lower state to the upper state. Its rate is precisely the negative of the stimulated emission rate, formula_3 The rate of absorption is thus proportional to the number of atoms in the lower **state**, "N". The B coefficients can be calculated using dipole approximation and time dependent perturbation theory in quantum mechanics as: formula_4 where "B" corresponds to energy distribution in terms o...
291. ...e electric field equal to the photon energy "hν" times this net transition rate. In order for this to be a positive number, indicating net stimulated emission, there must be more atoms in the excited **state** than in the lower level: formula_7. Otherwise there is net absorption and the power of the wave is reduced during passage through the medium. The special condition formula_8 is known as a population...
292. ...n cross section is formula_20 where Stimulated emission can provide a physical mechanism for optical amplification. If an external source of energy stimulates more than 50% of the atoms in the ground **state** to transition into the excited state, then what is called a population inversion is created. When light of the appropriate frequency passes through the inverted medium, the photons are either absorbe...
293. ...timulated emission can provide a physical mechanism for optical amplification. If an external source of energy stimulates more than 50% of the atoms in the ground state to transition into the excited **state**, then what is called a population inversion is created. When light of the appropriate frequency passes through the inverted medium, the photons are either absorbed by the atoms that remain in the gro...
294. ...en what is called a population inversion is created. When light of the appropriate frequency passes through the inverted medium, the photons are either absorbed by the atoms that remain in the ground **state** or the photons stimulate the excited atoms to emit additional photons of the same frequency, phase, and direction. Since more atoms are in the excited state than in the ground state then an amplifica...
295. ...bed by the atoms that remain in the ground state or the photons stimulate the excited atoms to emit additional photons of the same frequency, phase, and direction. Since more atoms are in the excited **state** than in the ground state then an amplification of the input intensity results. The population inversion, in units of atoms per cubic metre, is where "g" and "g" are the degeneracies of energy levels...
296. ...ain in the ground state or the photons stimulate the excited atoms to emit additional photons of the same frequency, phase, and direction. Since more atoms are in the excited state than in the ground **state** then an amplification of the input intensity results. The population inversion, in units of atoms per cubic metre, is where "g" and "g" are the degeneracies of energy levels 1 and 2, respectively. Th...
297. ...coil. This coil then preserves the current until the coil is reconnected to the larger system, after which the coil partly or fully discharges. The refrigeration system maintains the superconducting **state** of the coil by cooling the coil to the operating temperature. The power conditioning system typically contains a power conversion system that converts DC to AC current and the other way around. The c...
298. ...atured a low aspect ratio solenoid approximately 100 m in diameter buried in earth. At the low extreme of size is the concept of micro-SMES solenoids, for energy storage range near 1 MJ. Under steady **state** conditions and in the superconducting state, the coil resistance is negligible. However, the refrigerator necessary to keep the superconductor cool requires electric power and this refrigeration ener...
299. ...tely 100 m in diameter buried in earth. At the low extreme of size is the concept of micro-SMES solenoids, for energy storage range near 1 MJ. Under steady state conditions and in the superconducting **state**, the coil resistance is negligible. However, the refrigerator necessary to keep the superconductor cool requires electric power and this refrigeration energy must be considered when evaluating the ef...
300. ...k of liquid nitrogen. This in turn would require stable support, most commonly envisioned by burying the installation. Above a certain field strength, known as the critical field, the superconducting **state** is destroyed. This means that there exists a maximum charging rate for the superconducting material, given that the magnitude of the magnetic field determines the flux captured by the superconducting...
301. ...tates of two particles that can be entangled. Until either of the particles is observed, they exist in a superposition of two quantum states. If the particles are separated and one particle's quantum **state** is observed, the other particle's quantum state is determined instantaneously. However, it is impossible to control which quantum state the first particle will take on when it is observed, so informa...
302. ...til either of the particles is observed, they exist in a superposition of two quantum states. If the particles are separated and one particle's quantum state is observed, the other particle's quantum **state** is determined instantaneously. However, it is impossible to control which quantum state the first particle will take on when it is observed, so information cannot be transmitted in this manner. Anoth...
303. ...ates. If the particles are separated and one particle's quantum state is observed, the other particle's quantum state is determined instantaneously. However, it is impossible to control which quantum **state** the first particle will take on when it is observed, so information cannot be transmitted in this manner. Another quantum effect that predicts the occurrence of faster-than-light speeds is called the...
304. ...60, the metre was redefined in terms of the wavelength of a particular spectral line of krypton-86, and, in 1967, the second was redefined in terms of the hyperfine transition frequency of the ground **state** of caesium-133. In 1972, using the laser interferometer method and the new definitions, a group at the US National Bureau of Standards in Boulder, Colorado determined the speed of light in vacuum to...
305. ...tromagnetic spectrum, typically used in spectroscopic analysis to identify materials. The variable measured is most often the irradiance of the light but could also, for instance, be the polarization **state**. The independent variable is usually the wavelength of the light or a closely derived physical quantity, such as the corresponding wavenumber or the photon energy, in units of measurement such as cen...
306. ...infrared optical components, high-durability windows, wristwatch crystals and movement bearings, and very thin electronic wafers, which are used as the insulating substrates of special-purpose solid-**state** electronics such as integrated circuits and GaN-based blue LEDs. Sapphire is the birthstone for September and the gem of the 45th anniversary. A sapphire jubilee occurs after 65 years. Sapphire is on...
307. ...titanium generally takes the form Ti. If Fe and Ti ions are substituted for Al, localized areas of charge imbalance are created. An electron transfer from Fe and Ti can cause a change in the valence **state** of both. Because of the valence change, there is a specific change in energy for the electron, and electromagnetic energy is absorbed. The wavelength of the energy absorbed corresponds to yellow ligh...
308. ...Burroughs also participated. In 1928, Edison joined the Fort Myers Civitan Club. He believed strongly in the organization, writing that "The Civitan Club is doing things—big things—for the community, **state**, and nation, and I certainly consider it an honor to be numbered in its ranks." He was an active member in the club until his death, sometimes bringing Henry Ford to the club's meetings. Edison was a...
309. ...d experimentally by his protégé, Étienne-Louis Malus. Taking Laplace's formula for the refractive index as given, and using it to measure the refractive index of bees' wax in the liquid (transparent) **state** and the solid (opaque) state at various temperatures (hence various densities), Malus verified Laplace's relationship between refractive index and density. But Laplace's theory implied that if the an...
310. ...gé, Étienne-Louis Malus. Taking Laplace's formula for the refractive index as given, and using it to measure the refractive index of bees' wax in the liquid (transparent) state and the solid (opaque) **state** at various temperatures (hence various densities), Malus verified Laplace's relationship between refractive index and density. But Laplace's theory implied that if the angle of incidence exceeded his...
311. ...rement. Besides circuit elements used to limit current, self-limiting heaters can be made in the form of wires or strips, useful for heat tracing. PTC thermistors "latch" into a hot / high resistance **state**: once hot, they stay in that high resistance state, until cooled. The effect can be used as a primitive latch/memory circuit, the effect being enhanced by using two PTC thermistors in series, with on...
312. ...ent, self-limiting heaters can be made in the form of wires or strips, useful for heat tracing. PTC thermistors "latch" into a hot / high resistance state: once hot, they stay in that high resistance **state**, until cooled. The effect can be used as a primitive latch/memory circuit, the effect being enhanced by using two PTC thermistors in series, with one thermistor cool, and the other thermistor hot. Th...
313. ...wever, the drop in disk drive prices made such alternatives obsolete. As some data can be compressed to a smaller size than the original files, it has become commonplace when marketing tape drives to **state** the capacity with the assumption of a 2:1 compression ratio; thus a tape with a capacity of 80 GB would be sold as "80/160". The true storage capacity is also known as the native capacity or the raw...
314. ...electromagnetic spectrum of ultraviolet radiation (UVR), defined most broadly as 10–400 nanometers, can be subdivided into a number of ranges recommended by the ISO standard ISO 21348: Several solid-**state** and vacuum devices have been explored for use in different parts of the UV spectrum. Many approaches seek to adapt visible light-sensing devices, but these can suffer from unwanted response to visibl...
315. ...at contaminates the VUV, in general, detectors can be limited by their response to non-VUV radiation, and the development of solar-blind devices has been an important area of research. Wide-gap solid-**state** devices or vacuum devices with high-cutoff photocathodes can be attractive compared to silicon diodes. Extreme UV (EUV or sometimes XUV) is characterized by a transition in the physics of interaction...
316. ...tinction of "hard UV" and "soft UV". For instance, in the case of astrophysics, the boundary may be at the Lyman limit (wavelength 91.2 nm, the energy needed to ionise a hydrogen atom from its ground **state**), with "hard UV" being more energetic; the same terms may also be used in other fields, such as cosmetology, optoelectronic, etc. The numerical values of the boundary between hard/soft, even within s...
317. ...nfection are for non-LED UV sources known as germicidal lamps. Also, they are used as line sources to replace deuterium lamps in liquid chromatography instruments. Gas lasers, laser diodes, and solid-**state** lasers can be manufactured to emit ultraviolet rays, and lasers are available that cover the entire UV range. The nitrogen gas laser uses electronic excitation of nitrogen molecules to emit a beam th...
318. ...phy. The current wavelength limit of production of coherent UV is about 126 nm, characteristic of the Ar* excimer laser. Direct UV-emitting laser diodes are available at 375 nm. UV diode-pumped solid **state** lasers have been demonstrated using cerium-doped lithium strontium aluminum fluoride crystals (Ce:LiSAF), a process developed in the 1990s at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Wavelengths short...
319. ...ium aluminum fluoride crystals (Ce:LiSAF), a process developed in the 1990s at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. Wavelengths shorter than 325 nm are commercially generated in diode-pumped solid-**state** lasers. Ultraviolet lasers can also be made by applying frequency conversion to lower-frequency lasers. Ultraviolet lasers have applications in industry (laser engraving), medicine (dermatology, and...
320. ...avobenzone, which help protect against UVA rays. The photochemical properties of melanin make it an excellent photoprotectant. However, sunscreen chemicals cannot dissipate the energy of the excited **state** as efficiently as melanin and therefore, if sunscreen ingredients penetrate into the lower layers of the skin, the amount of reactive oxygen species may be increased. The amount of sunscreen that pen...
321. ...properties in a wide range of excitation/emission wavelengths. Ultraviolet lamps are also used as part of the analysis of some minerals and gems. In general, ultraviolet detectors use either a solid-**state** device, such as one based on silicon carbide or aluminium nitride, or a gas-filled tube as the sensing element. UV detectors that are sensitive to UV in any part of the spectrum respond to irradiatio...
322. ...ifier circuit and so was called the vacuum tube voltmeter (VTVM). These were almost always powered by the local AC line current and so were not particularly portable. Today these circuits use a solid-**state** amplifier using field-effect transistors, hence FET-VM, and appear in handheld digital multimeters as well as in bench and laboratory instruments. These largely replaced non-amplified multimeters exc...
323. ...from a radical departure and declared "the whole theory of the motive power of heat is founded on ... two ... propositions, due respectively to Joule, and to Carnot and Clausius." Thomson went on to **state** a form of the second law: In the paper, Thomson supports the theory that heat was a form of motion but admits that he had been influenced only by the thought of Sir Humphry Davy and the experiments o...
324. ...per unit volume needed to cause a small change of magnetic field is: formula_28 Once the relationship between and is known this equation is used to determine the work needed to reach a given magnetic **state**. For hysteretic materials such as ferromagnets and superconductors, the work needed also depends on how the magnetic field is created. For linear non-dispersive materials, though, the general equatio...
325. ...nets always have both a north and south pole, no matter how finely one slices them. Almost three centuries later, William Gilbert of Colchester replicated Petrus Peregrinus' work and was the first to **state** explicitly that Earth is a magnet. Published in 1600, Gilbert's work, "De Magnete", helped to establish magnetism as a science. In 1750, John Michell stated that magnetic poles attract and repel in a...
326. ...continued. According to the wishes of the board, I ask of all members to whom these definitions apply to report to me their resignation. Heil Hitler!" Many biographies published before Rispens' work, **state** that Debye moved to the US because he refused to accept German citizenship forced on to him by the Nazis. He planned his departure from Germany during a visit with his mother in Maastricht in late 19...
327. ...ffmann and Mark Walker also conclude that Debye was not a Nazi activist. They remark that Max von Laue also was required and obliged (as a civil servant) to sign letters with "Heil Hitler". They also **state** that the DPG was one of the last scientific societies to purge the Jewish members and only very reluctantly. They quote the response of the "Reich University Teachers League" (a National Socialist or...
328. ...ute of Technology, Princeton University, Michigan Technological University, and Georgia Tech. In 2023, students at the Olin College of Engineering demonstrated the first undergraduate designed steady-**state** hall thruster. A considerable amount of development is being conducted in industry, such as IHI Corporation in Japan, Aerojet and Busek in the US, SNECMA in France, LAJP in Ukraine, SITAEL in Italy,...
329. ...sed grid with a static DC high voltage to increase thrust as graphite has high transparency to alpha particles if it is also irradiated with short wave UV light at the correct wavelength from a solid-**state** emitter. It also permits lower energy and longer half-life sources which would be advantageous for a space application. Helium backfill has also been suggested as a way to increase electron mean free...
330. ...paceX's Starlink satellite constellation uses Hall-effect thrusters powered by krypton or argon to raise orbit, perform maneuvers, and de-orbit at the end of their use. ESA's Gravity Field and Steady-**State** Ocean Circulation Explorer (GOCE) was launched on 16 March 2009. It used ion propulsion throughout its twenty-month mission to combat the air-drag it experienced in its low orbit (altitude of 255 kil...
331. ...ns are also possible. Mass drivers need no physical contact between moving parts because they guide their projectiles by dynamic magnetic levitation, allowing extreme reusability in the case of solid-**state** power switching, and a functional life of – theoretically – up to millions of launches. While marginal costs tend to be accordingly low, initial development and construction costs are highly dependen...
332. ...affic lanes. To overcome this problem, most schemes plan to throw finely-divided dust. Alternatively, liquid oxygen could be used as reaction mass, which upon release would boil down to its molecular **state**. Propelling the reaction mass to solar escape velocity is another way to ensure that it will not remain a hazard. A mass driver on a spacecraft could be used to "reflect" masses from a stationary mas...
333. ...opulsion, which would use antimatter to catalyze a fission and fusion reaction, allowing much smaller fusion explosions to be created. During the 1990s an abortive design effort was conducted at Penn **State** University under the name AIMStar. The project would require more antimatter than can currently be produced. In addition, some technical hurdles need to be surpassed before it would be feasible. Elec...
334. ...ocess of electrolysis is the interchange of atoms and ions by the removal or addition of electrons due to the applied potential. The desired products of electrolysis are often in a different physical **state** from the electrolyte and can be removed by mechanical processes (e.g. by collecting gas above an electrode or precipitating a product out of the electrolyte). The quantity of the products is proporti...
335. ...rrosion or voltammetry). Reversible potentials can be sometimes converted to the standard electrode potential for a given electroactive species by extrapolation of the measured values to the standard **state**. The value of the electrode potential under non-equilibrium depends on the nature and composition of the contacting phases, and on the kinetics of electrode reactions at the interface (see Butler–Vol...
336. ...en becomes , it loses 2 electrons. Since there are 2 Mg on left side, a total of 4 electrons are lost according to the following oxidation half reaction: On the other hand, was reduced: its oxidation **state** goes from 0 to -2. Thus, a reduction half reaction can be written for the O2 as it gains 4 electrons: The overall reaction is the sum of both half reactions: When chemical reaction, especially, redox...
337. ...and reduction half reaction. The sum of these two half reactions is the oxidation–reduction reaction. Consider the reaction below: The two elements involved, iron and chlorine, each change oxidation **state**; iron from +2 to +3, chlorine from 0 to −1. There are then effectively two "half" reactions occurring. These changes can be represented in formulas by inserting appropriate electrons into each half r...
338. ...ed statistical correlations between various diseases and living or working near power lines. No adverse health effects have been substantiated for people not living close to power lines. The New York **State** Public Service Commission conducted a study to evaluate potential health effects of electric fields. The study measured the electric field strength at the edge of an existing right-of-way on a 765 kV...
339. ...trength at the edge of an existing right-of-way on a 765 kV transmission line. The field strength was 1.6 kV/m, and became the interim maximum strength standard for new transmission lines in New York **State**. The opinion also limited the voltage of new transmission lines built in New York to 345 kV. On September 11, 1990, after a similar study of magnetic field strengths, the NYSPSC issued their "Interim...
340. ...ube Tesla coils do not use a primary spark gap. Instead, the transistor(s) or vacuum tube(s) provide the switching or amplifying function necessary to generate RF power for the primary circuit. Solid-**state** Tesla coils use the lowest primary operating voltage, typically between 155 and 800 volts, and drive the primary winding using either a single, half-bridge, or full-bridge arrangement of transistors,...
341. ...ly synchronize the primary oscillator to the growing resonance in the secondary, and this is the only tuning consideration beyond the initial choice of a reasonable top-load. In a dual resonant solid-**state** Tesla coil (DRSSTC), the electronic switching of the solid-state Tesla coil is combined with the resonant primary circuit of a spark-gap Tesla coil. The resonant primary circuit is formed by connecti...
342. ...the secondary, and this is the only tuning consideration beyond the initial choice of a reasonable top-load. In a dual resonant solid-state Tesla coil (DRSSTC), the electronic switching of the solid-**state** Tesla coil is combined with the resonant primary circuit of a spark-gap Tesla coil. The resonant primary circuit is formed by connecting a capacitor in series with the primary winding of the coil, so...
343. ...an electric generator, the measurable output of which varies depending on orientation . Small electronic compasses (eCompasses) found in clocks, mobile phones, and other electronic devices are solid-**state** microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) compasses, usually built out of two or three magnetic field sensors that provide data for a microprocessor. Often, the device is a discrete component which outpu...
344. ..., but could not achieve this efficiency due to losses from the conversion of DC electric current to radio frequency power and the auxiliary equipment for the superconducting magnet. In contrast, 2009 **state**-of-the-art, proven ion engine designs such as NASA's High Power Electric Propulsion (HiPEP) operated at 80% total thruster/PPU energy efficiency. On 24 October 2008, the company announced in a press...
345. ...n 24 October 2008, the company announced in a press release that the helicon plasma generation component of the 200 kW VX-200 engine had reached operational status. The key enabling technology, solid-**state** DC-RF power-processing, reached 98% efficiency. The helicon discharge used 30 kW of radio waves to turn argon gas into plasma. The remaining 170 kW of power was allocated for acceleration of plasma i...
346. ...uperconducting magnets that are powered separately and not accounted for in any "efficiency" calculations. During November 2010, long duration, full power firing tests were performed, reaching steady **state** operation for 25 seconds and validating basic design characteristics. Results presented in January 2011 confirmed that the design point for optimal efficiency on the VX-200 is 50 km/s exhaust velocit...
347. ...$10 million award from NASA to advance the technology readiness of the next version of the VASIMR engine, the VX-200SS to meet the needs of deep space missions. The SS in the name stands for "steady **state**", as a goal of the long duration test is to demonstrate continuous operation at thermal steady state. In August 2016, Ad Astra announced completion of the milestones for the first year of its 3-year...
348. ...gine, the VX-200SS to meet the needs of deep space missions. The SS in the name stands for "steady state", as a goal of the long duration test is to demonstrate continuous operation at thermal steady **state**. In August 2016, Ad Astra announced completion of the milestones for the first year of its 3-year contract with NASA. This allowed for first high-power plasma firings of the engines, with a stated go...
349. ...by the current density expressed as and the center of mass velocity expressed as: MHD can be described by a set of equations consisting of a continuity equation, an equation of motion, an equation of **state**, Ampère's Law, Faraday's law, and Ohm's law. As with any fluid description to a kinetic system, a closure approximation must be applied to highest moment of the particle distribution equation. This i...
350. ...re, a fluid with an adiabatic index formula_12, electrical resistivity formula_13, magnetic field formula_14, and electric field formula_15 can be described by the continuous equation the equation of **state** the equation of motion the low-frequency Ampère's law Faraday's law and Ohm's law Taking the curl of this equation and using Ampère's law and Faraday's law results in the induction equation, where fo...
351. ...potential difference. There are many different types, ranging from historical handmade mechanical instruments to high-precision electronic devices. Modern electrometers based on vacuum tube or solid-**state** technology can be used to make voltage and charge measurements with very low leakage currents, down to 1 femtoampere. A simpler but related instrument, the electroscope, works on similar principles b...
352. ...-charge region surrounding the filament, minimizing the number of electrons collected by the control electrode, and thus minimizing the input current. The most modern electrometers consist of a solid **state** amplifier using one or more field-effect transistors, connections for external measurement devices, and usually a display and/or data-logging connections. The amplifier amplifies small currents so th...
353. ...r to see the data or record it for later analysis. Electrometers designed for use with ionization chambers may include a high-voltage power supply, which is used to bias the ionization chamber. Solid-**state** electrometers are often multipurpose devices that can measure voltage, charge, resistance and current. They measure voltage by means of "voltage balancing", in which the input voltage is compared wit...
354. ...lectronic instrument that captures and displays multiple logic signals from a digital system or digital circuit. A logic analyzer may convert the captured data into timing diagrams, protocol decodes, **state** machine traces, opcodes, or may correlate opcodes with source-level software. Logic analyzers have advanced triggering capabilities, and are useful when a user needs to see the timing relationships b...
355. ...als together for easier manipulation. Next, a capture mode is chosen, either "timing" mode, where the input signals are sampled at regular intervals based on an internal or external clock source, or "**state**" mode, where one or more of the signals are defined as "clocks", and data are taken on the rising or falling edges of these clocks, optionally using other signals to qualify these clocks. After the m...
356. ...oint, the user sets the analyzer to "run" mode, either triggering once, or repeatedly triggering. Once the data are captured, they can be displayed several ways, from the simple (showing waveforms or **state** listings) to the complex (showing decoded Ethernet protocol traffic). Some analyzers can also operate in a "compare" mode, where they compare each captured data set to a previously recorded data set,...
357. ...analog and digital signals together in time, and to trigger on either digital or analog signals and capture on the other. A few limitations of mixed signal oscilloscopes are that they do not capture **state**-mode data, they have a limited channel count, and do not provide the analytical depth and insight of a logic analyzer. Ohmmeter An ohmmeter is an electrical instrument that measures electrical resist...
358. ...alues. To measure resistance, switches arrange for a small battery within the instrument to pass a current through the device under test and the meter coil. Since the current available depends on the **state** of charge of the battery which changes over time, a multimeter usually has an adjustment for the ohm scale to zero it. In the usual circuits found in analog multimeters, the meter deflection is inver...
359. ...appliances the distance should be stated; where not stated it is usually one metre (1 m). An extra complication here is the effect of a reverberant room, and so noise measurement on appliances should **state** "at 1 m in an open field" or "at 1 m in anechoic chamber". Measurements made outdoors will approximate well to anechoic conditions. A-weighted SPL measurements of noise level are increasingly to be f...
360. ...study of dielectric properties concerns storage and dissipation of electric and magnetic energy in materials. Dielectrics are important for explaining various phenomena in electronics, optics, solid-**state** physics and cell biophysics. Although the term "insulator" implies low electrical conduction, "dielectric" typically means materials with a high polarisability. The latter is expressed by a number ca...
361. ...as the electric field in the figure. This is not always the case, and is a major simplification, but is true for many materials.) When the electric field is removed, the atom returns to its original **state**. The time required to do so is called relaxation time; an exponential decay. This is the essence of the model in physics. The behaviour of the dielectric now depends on the situation. The more compli...
362. ..., in inductor or transformer cores). Relaxation in general is a delay or lag in the response of a linear system, and therefore dielectric relaxation is measured relative to the expected linear steady **state** (equilibrium) dielectric values. The time lag between electrical field and polarisation implies an irreversible degradation of Gibbs free energy. In physics, dielectric relaxation refers to the relax...
363. ...ble. If the current supplied by the external circuit is sufficiently limited, no damage is done to the material, and reducing the applied voltage causes a transition back to the material's insulating **state**. The field strength at which break down occurs depends on the respective geometries of the dielectric (insulator) and the electrodes with which the electric field is applied, as well as the rate of i...
364. ...tion of electric field, the equations of both fields are coupled and together form Maxwell's equations that describe both fields as a function of charges and currents. In the special case of a steady **state** (stationary charges and currents), the Maxwell-Faraday inductive effect disappears. The resulting two equations (Gauss's law formula_1 and Faraday's law with no induction term formula_2), taken toget...
365. ...ing apart. Cables, even if short, can act as antennas to transmit pulse energy to the equipment. Older, vacuum tube (valve)-based equipment is generally much less vulnerable to nuclear EMP than solid-**state** equipment, which is much more susceptible to damage by large, brief voltage and current surges. Soviet Cold War-era military aircraft often had avionics based on vacuum tubes because solid-state capa...
366. ...olid-state equipment, which is much more susceptible to damage by large, brief voltage and current surges. Soviet Cold War-era military aircraft often had avionics based on vacuum tubes because solid-**state** capabilities were limited and vacuum-tube gear was believed to be more likely to survive. Other components in vacuum tube circuitry can be damaged by EMP. Vacuum tube equipment was damaged in the 196...
367. ...mited and vacuum-tube gear was believed to be more likely to survive. Other components in vacuum tube circuitry can be damaged by EMP. Vacuum tube equipment was damaged in the 1962 testing. The solid-**state** PRC-77 VHF manpackable two-way radio survived extensive EMP testing. The earlier PRC-25, nearly identical except for a vacuum tube final amplification stage, was tested in EMP simulators, but was not...
368. ...craft flying from the detonations at burst altitudes. The vital electronics were less sophisticated than today's and the aircraft was able to land safely. Modern aircraft are heavily reliant on solid-**state** electronics which are very susceptible to EMP blasts. Therefore, airline authorities are creating high intensity radiated fields (HIRF) requirements for new air planes to help prevent the chance of c...
369. ...see laser safety). As with its infrared and ultraviolet radiation dangers, welding creates an intense brightness in the visible light spectrum, which may cause temporary flash blindness. Some sources **state** that there is no minimum safe distance for exposure to these radiation emissions without adequate eye protection. Sunlight includes sufficient ultraviolet power to cause sunburn within hours of expos...
370. ...differential group delay is the difference in propagation time between the two eigenmodes "X" and "Y" polarizations. Consider two eigenmodes that are the 0° and 90° linear polarization states. If the **state** of polarization of the input signal is the linear state at 45° between the two eigenmodes, the input signal is divided equally into the two eigenmodes. The power of the transmitted signal "E" is the...
371. ...n time between the two eigenmodes "X" and "Y" polarizations. Consider two eigenmodes that are the 0° and 90° linear polarization states. If the state of polarization of the input signal is the linear **state** at 45° between the two eigenmodes, the input signal is divided equally into the two eigenmodes. The power of the transmitted signal "E" is the combination of the transmitted signals of both "x" and "...
372. ...an cause signals from one circuit to be induced into a nearby circuit, this is called cross-talk, and is a form of electromagnetic interference. An inductively coupled transponder consists of a solid **state** transceiver chip connected to a large coil that functions as an antenna. When brought within the oscillating magnetic field of a reader unit, the transceiver is powered up by energy inductively coupl...
373. ...ic waves and polarization in particular, it is easier to just consider coherent plane waves; these are sinusoidal waves of one particular direction (or wavevector), frequency, phase, and polarization **state**. Characterizing an optical system in relation to a plane wave with those given parameters can then be used to predict its response to a more general case, since a wave with any specified spatial stru...
374. ...ribing the electric field. The vector containing and (but without the component which is necessarily zero for a transverse wave) is known as a Jones vector. In addition to specifying the polarization **state** of the wave, a general Jones vector also specifies the overall magnitude and phase of that wave. Specifically, the intensity of the light wave is proportional to the sum of the squared magnitudes of...
375. ...gnitude and phase of that wave. Specifically, the intensity of the light wave is proportional to the sum of the squared magnitudes of the two electric field components: formula_5 However, the wave's "**state** of polarization" is only dependent on the (complex) ratio of to . So let us just consider waves whose ; this happens to correspond to an intensity of about in free space (where ). And because the abs...
376. ...o let us just consider waves whose ; this happens to correspond to an intensity of about in free space (where ). And because the absolute phase of a wave is unimportant in discussing its polarization **state**, let us stipulate that the phase of is zero; in other words is a real number while may be complex. Under these restrictions, and can be represented as follows: formula_6 where the polarization state...
377. ...state, let us stipulate that the phase of is zero; in other words is a real number while may be complex. Under these restrictions, and can be represented as follows: formula_6 where the polarization **state** is now fully parameterized by the value of (such that ) and the relative phase . In addition to transverse waves, there are many wave motions where the oscillation is not limited to directions perpen...
378. ...pendicular to the page. The first two diagrams below trace the electric field vector over a complete cycle for linear polarization at two different orientations; these are each considered a distinct "**state** of polarization" (SOP). The linear polarization at 45° can also be viewed as the addition of a horizontally linearly polarized wave (as in the leftmost figure) and a vertically polarized wave of the...
379. ...ircular birefringence (optical activity) or circular dichroism. For a purely polarized monochromatic wave the electric field vector over one cycle of oscillation traces out an ellipse. A polarization **state** can then be described in relation to the geometrical parameters of the ellipse, and its "handedness", that is, whether the rotation around the ellipse is clockwise or counter clockwise. One parameter...
380. ...lipse's eccentricity formula_7 or the ellipticity angle, formula_8 formula_9 as is shown in the figure. The angle is also significant in that the latitude (angle from the equator) of the polarization **state** as represented on the Poincaré sphere (see below) is equal to . The special cases of linear and circular polarization correspond to an ellipticity of infinity and unity (or of zero and 45°) respectiv...
381. ...w) is equal to . The special cases of linear and circular polarization correspond to an ellipticity of infinity and unity (or of zero and 45°) respectively. Full information on a completely polarized **state** is also provided by the amplitude and phase of oscillations in two components of the electric field vector in the plane of polarization. This representation was used above to show how different state...
382. ...ctric field vector, while and represent the phases. The product of a Jones vector with a complex number of unit modulus gives a different Jones vector representing the same ellipse, and thus the same **state** of polarization. The physical electric field, as the real part of the Jones vector, would be altered but the polarization state itself is independent of absolute phase. The basis vectors used to repr...
383. ...different Jones vector representing the same ellipse, and thus the same state of polarization. The physical electric field, as the real part of the Jones vector, would be altered but the polarization **state** itself is independent of absolute phase. The basis vectors used to represent the Jones vector need not represent linear polarization states (i.e. be real). In general any two orthogonal states can be...
384. ...t propagation of waves in two such components in circularly birefringent media (see below) or signal paths of coherent detectors sensitive to circular polarization. Regardless of whether polarization **state** is represented using geometric parameters or Jones vectors, implicit in the parameterization is the orientation of the coordinate frame. This permits a degree of freedom, namely rotation about the pr...
385. ...y the polarized component of the wave. In a vacuum, the components of the electric field propagate at the speed of light, so that the phase of the wave varies in space and time while the polarization **state** does not. That is, the electric field vector of a plane wave in the direction follows: formula_11 where is the wavenumber. As noted above, the instantaneous electric field is the real part of the pro...
386. ...interacts with matter, its propagation is altered according to the material's (complex) index of refraction. When the real or imaginary part of that refractive index is dependent on the polarization **state** of a wave, properties known as birefringence and polarization dichroism (or diattenuation) respectively, then the polarization state of a wave will generally be altered. In such media, an electromagn...
387. ...ary part of that refractive index is dependent on the polarization state of a wave, properties known as birefringence and polarization dichroism (or diattenuation) respectively, then the polarization **state** of a wave will generally be altered. In such media, an electromagnetic wave with any given state of polarization may be decomposed into two orthogonally polarized components that encounter different...
388. ...own as birefringence and polarization dichroism (or diattenuation) respectively, then the polarization state of a wave will generally be altered. In such media, an electromagnetic wave with any given **state** of polarization may be decomposed into two orthogonally polarized components that encounter different propagation constants. The effect of propagation over a given path on those two components is mos...
389. ...n which the basis polarizations are orthogonal linear polarizations) appear in optical wave plates/retarders and many crystals. If linearly polarized light passes through a birefringent material, its **state** of polarization will generally change, its polarization direction is identical to one of those basis polarizations. Since the phase shift, and thus the change in polarization state, is usually wavele...
390. ...gent material, its state of polarization will generally change, its polarization direction is identical to one of those basis polarizations. Since the phase shift, and thus the change in polarization **state**, is usually wavelength-dependent, such objects viewed under white light in between two polarizers may give rise to colorful effects, as seen in the accompanying photograph. Circular birefringence is...
391. ...(180° phase) perpendicular to the original polarization, then through circular again (270° phase), then elliptical with the original azimuth angle, and finally back to the original linearly polarized **state** (360° phase) where the cycle begins anew. In general the situation is more complicated and can be characterized as a rotation in the Poincaré sphere about the axis defined by the propagation modes. E...
392. ...l of the radiation in one mode are known as "" or simply "polarizers". This corresponds to in the above representation of the Jones matrix. The output of an ideal polarizer is a specific polarization **state** (usually linear polarization) with an amplitude equal to the input wave's original amplitude in that polarization mode. Power in the other polarization mode is eliminated. Thus if unpolarized light i...
393. ...ed; for a given material those proportions (and also the phase of reflection) are dependent on the angle of incidence and are different for the "s"- and "p"-polarizations. Therefore, the polarization **state** of reflected light (even if initially unpolarized) is generally changed. Any light striking a surface at a special angle of incidence known as Brewster's angle, where the reflection coefficient for "...
394. ...ally, and therefore the polarization of the reflected wave is identical to that of the incident wave. However, in the case of circular (or elliptical) polarization, the handedness of the polarization **state** is thereby reversed, since by convention this is specified relative to the direction of propagation. The circular rotation of the electric field around the axes called "right-handed" for a wave in th...
395. ...ching of the material during the manufacturing process. Ellipsometry is a powerful technique for the measurement of the optical properties of a uniform surface. It involves measuring the polarization **state** of light following specular reflection from such a surface. This is typically done as a function of incidence angle or wavelength (or both). Since ellipsometry relies on reflection, it is not require...
396. ...ce of a type of crystal is useful in identifying it, and thus detection of linear birefringence is especially useful in geology and mineralogy. Linearly polarized light generally has its polarization **state** altered upon transmission through such a crystal, making it stand out when viewed in between two crossed polarizers, as seen in the photograph, above. Likewise, in chemistry, rotation of polarization...
397. ...istent right (or left) handed chirality, essentially consisting of tiny helices. This causes circular birefringence, and is engineered so that there is a 90 degree rotation of the linear polarization **state**. However, when a voltage is applied across a cell, the molecules straighten out, lessening or totally losing the circular birefringence. On the viewing side of the display is another linear polarizin...
398. ...ed wave "left" circularly polarized. With the right circular polarization filter placed in front of the reflecting glass, the unwanted light reflected from the glass will thus be in very polarization **state** that is "blocked" by that filter, eliminating the reflection problem. The reversal of circular polarization on reflection and elimination of reflections in this manner can be easily observed by looki...
399. ...r is the apparent power (formula_4), also expressed in volt-amperes (VA). The VA and var are non-SI units dimensionally similar to the watt but are used in engineering practice instead of the watt to **state** what quantity is being expressed. The SI explicitly disallows using units for this purpose or as the only source of information about a physical quantity as used. The power factor is defined as the r...
400. ...static VAR compensator or STATCOM are increasingly used. These systems are able to compensate sudden changes of power factor much more rapidly than contactor-switched capacitor banks and, being solid-**state**, require less maintenance than synchronous condensers. Examples of non-linear loads on a power system are rectifiers (such as used in a power supply), and arc discharge devices such as fluorescent la...
401. ...scharge beyond the safe bottom limit of the discharge window, damaging the old cells. When recharged, the old cells recharge more rapidly, leading to a rapid rise of voltage to near the fully charged **state**, but before the new cells with more capacity have fully recharged. The charge controller detects the high voltage of a nearly fully charged string and reduces current flow. The new cells with more ca...
402. ...nearly fully charged string and reduces current flow. The new cells with more capacity now charge very slowly, so slowly that the chemicals may begin to crystallize before reaching the fully charged **state**, reducing new cell capacity over several charge/discharge cycles until their capacity more closely matches the old cells in the series string. For such reasons, some industrial UPS management systems...
403. ...example.) A large number of interesting results can be proven from these general conditions. It turns out that any tube with a bulge (where the width of the tube increases) admits at least one bound **state** that exist inside the mode gaps. The frequencies of all the bound states can be identified by using a pulse short in time. This can be shown using the variational principles. An interesting result by...
404. ...a pulse short in time. This can be shown using the variational principles. An interesting result by Jeffrey Goldstone and Robert Jaffe is that any tube of constant width with a twist, admits a bound **state**. Sound synthesis uses digital delay lines as computational elements to simulate wave propagation in tubes of wind instruments and the vibrating strings of string instruments. Wave impedance The wave...
405. ...one frequency at a time and DC represents a separate frequency of zero hertz in this context. Impedance defined in terms of "jω" can strictly be applied only to circuits that are driven with a steady-**state** AC signal. The concept of impedance can be extended to a circuit energised with any arbitrary signal by using complex frequency instead of "jω". Complex frequency is given the symbol "s" and is, in g...
406. ...ace transform of the time domain expression of the signal. The impedance of the basic circuit elements in this more general notation is as follows: For a DC circuit, this simplifies to . For a steady-**state** sinusoidal AC signal . The impedance formula_1 of an electrical component is defined as the ratio between the Laplace transforms of the voltage over it and the current through it, i.e. where formula_...
407. ...ugh it, i.e. where formula_50 is the complex Laplace parameter. As an example, according to the I-V-law of a capacitor, formula_51, from which it follows that formula_52. In the phasor regime (steady-**state** AC, meaning all signals are represented mathematically as simple complex exponentials formula_53 and formula_54 oscillating at a common frequency formula_55), impedance can simply be calculated as th...
408. ...r a capacitor, one gets that formula_57, and hence formula_58. The phasor domain is sometimes dubbed the frequency domain, although it lacks one of the dimensions of the Laplace parameter. For steady-**state** AC, the polar form of the complex impedance relates the amplitude and phase of the voltage and current. In particular: These two relationships hold even after taking the real part of the complex expo...
409. ...dance path allows the maximum amount of fault current, causing the overcurrent protection device (breakers, fuses) to trip or burn out as quickly as possible, bringing the electrical system to a safe **state**. All bond wires are bonded to ground at the main service panel, as is the neutral/identified conductor if present. The frequency of the electrical system varies by country and sometimes within a coun...
410. ...form of swim bladder. Bottom-dwelling sharks, like the nurse shark, have negative buoyancy, allowing them to rest on the ocean floor. Some sharks, if inverted or stroked on the nose, enter a natural **state** of tonic immobility. Researchers use this condition to handle sharks safely. Like other fish, sharks extract oxygen from seawater as it passes over their gills. Unlike other fish, shark gill slits ar...
411. ...ile not swimming do so by using their spiracles to force water over their gills, thereby allowing them to extract oxygen from the water. It has been recorded that their eyes remain open while in this **state** and actively follow the movements of divers swimming around them and as such they are not truly asleep. Species that do need to swim continuously to breathe go through a process known as sleep swimmi...
412. ...inates swimming, so spiny dogfish can continue to swim while sleeping, and this also may be the case in larger shark species. In 2016 a great white shark was captured on video for the first time in a **state** researchers believed was sleep swimming. Most sharks are carnivorous. Basking sharks, whale sharks, and megamouth sharks have independently evolved different strategies for filter feeding plankton: b...
413. ...attack, it is possible that the shark has mistaken the human for species that are its normal prey, such as seals. This was further proven in a recent study conducted by researchers at the California **State** University's Shark Lab. According to footage caught by the Lab's drones, juveniles swam right up to humans in the water without any bites incidents. The lab stated that the results showed that humans...
414. ...black markets all over the world. Fins sell for about $300/lb in 2009. Poachers illegally fin millions each year. Few governments enforce laws that protect them. In 2010 Hawaii became the first U.S. **state** to prohibit the possession, sale, trade or distribution of shark fins. From 1996 to 2000, an estimated 38 million sharks had been killed per year for harvesting shark fins. It is estimated by TRAFFIC...
415. ...ting international coordination for the protection, conservation and management of migratory sharks, through multilateral, intergovernmental discussion and scientific research. In July 2013, New York **state**, a major market and entry point for shark fins, banned the shark fin trade joining seven other states of the United States and the three Pacific U.S. territories in providing legal protection to shar...
416. ...under slow expansion or contraction, the energy of light reflecting off the walls changes in exactly the same way as the frequency. A general principle of thermodynamics is that a thermal equilibrium **state**, when expanded very slowly, stays in thermal equilibrium. Wien himself deduced this law theoretically in 1893, following Boltzmann's thermodynamic reasoning. It had previously been observed, at least...
417. ...e each other to predominantly produce two or three gamma-rays, depending on the relative spin states. The energy levels of the two particles are similar to that of the hydrogen atom (which is a bound **state** of a proton and an electron). However, because of the reduced mass, the frequencies of the spectral lines are less than half of those for the corresponding hydrogen lines. The mass of positronium is...
418. ...re less than half of those for the corresponding hydrogen lines. The mass of positronium is 1.022 MeV, which is twice the electron mass minus the binding energy of a few eV. The lowest energy orbital **state** of positronium is 1S, and like with hydrogen, it has a hyperfine structure arising from the relative orientations of the spins of the electron and the positron. The "singlet" state, , with antiparall...
419. ...est energy orbital state of positronium is 1S, and like with hydrogen, it has a hyperfine structure arising from the relative orientations of the spins of the electron and the positron. The "singlet" **state**, , with antiparallel spins ("S" = 0, "M" = 0) is known as "para"-positronium ("p"-Ps). It has a mean lifetime of and decays preferentially into two gamma rays with energy of each (in the center-of-ma...
420. ...m can be calculated approximately as: formula_2 However more accurate calculations with corrections to O(α) yield a value of for the decay rate, corresponding to a lifetime of . Positronium in the 2S **state** is metastable having a lifetime of against annihilation. The positronium created in such an excited state will quickly cascade down to the ground state, where annihilation will occur more quickly. Me...
421. ...) yield a value of for the decay rate, corresponding to a lifetime of . Positronium in the 2S state is metastable having a lifetime of against annihilation. The positronium created in such an excited **state** will quickly cascade down to the ground state, where annihilation will occur more quickly. Measurements of these lifetimes and energy levels have been used in precision tests of quantum electrodynami...
422. ...onding to a lifetime of . Positronium in the 2S state is metastable having a lifetime of against annihilation. The positronium created in such an excited state will quickly cascade down to the ground **state**, where annihilation will occur more quickly. Measurements of these lifetimes and energy levels have been used in precision tests of quantum electrodynamics, confirming quantum electrodynamics (QED) p...
423. ...gen atom. So finally, the energy levels of positronium are given by formula_5 The lowest energy level of positronium () is . The next level is . The negative sign is a convention that implies a bound **state**. Positronium can also be considered by a particular form of the two-body Dirac equation; Two particles with a Coulomb interaction can be exactly separated in the (relativistic) center-of-momentum fra...
424. ...nsidered by a particular form of the two-body Dirac equation; Two particles with a Coulomb interaction can be exactly separated in the (relativistic) center-of-momentum frame and the resulting ground-**state** energy has been obtained very accurately using finite element methods of Janine Shertzer. Their results lead to the discovery of anomalous states. The Dirac equation whose Hamiltonian comprises two D...
425. ...tion temperature, called the Curie temperature ("T") and are paraelectric above this temperature: the spontaneous polarization vanishes, and the ferroelectric crystal transforms into the paraelectric **state**. Many ferroelectrics lose their pyroelectric properties above "T" completely, because their paraelectric phase has a centrosymmetric crystal structure. The nonlinear nature of ferroelectric materials...
426. ...have to stand large mechanical loads, such as insulators of mast radiators. Soapstone continues to be used for carvings and sculptures by artists and indigenous peoples. In Brazil, especially in the **state** of Minas Gerais, the abundance of soapstone mines allow local artisans to craft pots, pans, wine glasses, statues, jewel boxes, coasters, and vases from soapstone. These handicrafts are commonly sold...
427. ...ines allow local artisans to craft pots, pans, wine glasses, statues, jewel boxes, coasters, and vases from soapstone. These handicrafts are commonly sold in street markets found in cities across the **state**. Some of the oldest towns, notably Congonhas, Tiradentes, and Ouro Preto, still have some of their streets paved with soapstone from colonial times. Architectural soapstone is mined in Canada, Brazil...
428. ...are paramagnetic; they have no magnetic moment until exposed to an external field where they become ferromagnetic. After removal of the magnetizing field, the nanoparticles decay from a ferromagnetic **state** to a paramagnetic state, with a time constant that depends upon the particle size and whether they are bound to an external surface. Measurement of the decaying magnetic field by SQUID sensors is use...
429. ...ave no magnetic moment until exposed to an external field where they become ferromagnetic. After removal of the magnetizing field, the nanoparticles decay from a ferromagnetic state to a paramagnetic **state**, with a time constant that depends upon the particle size and whether they are bound to an external surface. Measurement of the decaying magnetic field by SQUID sensors is used to detect and localize...
430. ...ers; he tries to free his mother from Mephisto and treats Kristoff Vernard like his own son. Byrne gave further detail regarding Doom's scarring: Byrne introduced the idea that the accident at Empire **State** University only left Victor with a small scar that was exaggerated into a more disfiguring accident by Doom's own arrogance—by donning his newly forged face mask before it had fully cooled, he caused...
431. ...ts and swear revenge on the Baron. As Victor grew, he became a brilliant inventor, merging sorcery and technology to defend the Roma people. His exploits attracted the attention of the dean of Empire **State** University, who offered him a chance to study in the U.S., prompting Victor to leave his homeland and his love, Valeria, behind. Upon arriving in the United States, Victor von Doom met Reed Richards,...
432. ...egs. When he learns of their transformation, he derides Reed as a "freak," believing himself to be the only one worthy of such power. For a time, Doom leads a micronation in Copenhagen known as "Free **State**," where citizens live rent-free in exchange for loyalty and receive dragon tattoos that serve as mind control devices. The Fantastic Four eventually liberate the citizens during their first battle, b...
433. ..., the resulting circuit is not, strictly speaking, a DC circuit. However, most such circuits have a DC solution. This solution gives the circuit voltages and currents when the circuit is in DC steady **state**. Such a circuit is represented by a system of differential equations. The solution to these equations usually contain a time varying or transient part as well as constant or steady state part. It is...
434. ...in DC steady state. Such a circuit is represented by a system of differential equations. The solution to these equations usually contain a time varying or transient part as well as constant or steady **state** part. It is this steady state part that is the DC solution. There are some circuits that do not have a DC solution. Two simple examples are a constant current source connected to a capacitor and a co...
435. ...cuit is represented by a system of differential equations. The solution to these equations usually contain a time varying or transient part as well as constant or steady state part. It is this steady **state** part that is the DC solution. There are some circuits that do not have a DC solution. Two simple examples are a constant current source connected to a capacitor and a constant voltage source connecte...
436. ...e to be calculated as approximately one over the slope of a line drawn tangentially to the "V"–"I" curve at the DC operating point. Ohm's law has sometimes been stated as, "for a conductor in a given **state**, the electromotive force is proportional to the current produced. "That is, that the resistance, the ratio of the applied electromotive force (or voltage) to the current, "does not vary with the curr...
437. ...l to the current produced. "That is, that the resistance, the ratio of the applied electromotive force (or voltage) to the current, "does not vary with the current strength."The qualifier "in a given **state**" is usually interpreted as meaning "at a constant temperature," since the resistivity of materials is usually temperature dependent. Because the conduction of current is related to Joule heating of t...
438. ...uroras result from emissions of photons in Earth's upper atmosphere, above , from ionized nitrogen atoms regaining an electron, and oxygen atoms and nitrogen based molecules returning from an excited **state** to ground state. They are ionized or excited by the collision of particles precipitated into the atmosphere. Both incoming electrons and protons may be involved. Excitation energy is lost within the...
439. ...om emissions of photons in Earth's upper atmosphere, above , from ionized nitrogen atoms regaining an electron, and oxygen atoms and nitrogen based molecules returning from an excited state to ground **state**. They are ionized or excited by the collision of particles precipitated into the atmosphere. Both incoming electrons and protons may be involved. Excitation energy is lost within the atmosphere by th...
440. ...protons may be involved. Excitation energy is lost within the atmosphere by the emission of a photon, or by collision with another atom or molecule: Oxygen is unusual in terms of its return to ground **state**: it can take 0.7 seconds to emit the 557.7 nm green light and up to two minutes for the red 630.0 nm emission. Collisions with other atoms or molecules absorb the excitation energy and prevent emissi...
441. ..._49. The number of states for each Landau Level and formula_50 can be calculated from the ratio between the total magnetic flux that passes through the sample and the magnetic flux corresponding to a **state**. Thus the density of states per unit surface is  Note the dependency of the density of states with the magnetic field. The larger the magnetic field is, the more states are in each Landau level. As a...
442. ...are occupied. Rewriting the last expression as formula_53 it is clear that each Landau level contains as many states as in a 2DEG in a formula_54. Given the fact that electrons are fermions, for each **state** available in the Landau levels it corresponds to two electrons, one electron with each value for the spin formula_55. However, if a large magnetic field is applied, the energies split into two levels...
443. ...st. Longer-term as conductor price falls HTS systems should be competitive in a much wider range of applications on energy efficiency grounds alone. (For a relatively technical and US-centric view of **state** of play of HTS technology in power systems and the development status of Generation 2 conductor see "Superconductivity for Electric Systems 2008 US DOE Annual Peer Review".) The Holbrook Superconduct...
444. ...sts for long times at higher temperatures. These systems have been called single-chain magnets. Some nano-structured materials exhibit energy waves, called magnons, that coalesce into a common ground **state** in the manner of a Bose–Einstein condensate. The United States Department of Energy has identified a need to find substitutes for rare-earth metals in permanent-magnet technology, and has begun fundi...
445. ...Meissner effect In condensed-matter physics, the Meissner effect (or Meißner–Ochsenfeld effect) is the expulsion of a magnetic field from a superconductor during its transition to the superconducting **state** when it is cooled below the critical temperature. This expulsion will repel a nearby magnet. The German physicists Walther Meißner (anglicized "Meissner") and Robert Ochsenfeld discovered this phenom...
446. ...he exterior field increases. The experiment demonstrated for the first time that superconductors were more than just perfect conductors and provided a uniquely defining property of the superconductor **state**. The ability for the expulsion effect is determined by the nature of equilibrium formed by the neutralization within the unit cell of a superconductor. A superconductor with little or no magnetic fie...
447. ...etermined by the nature of equilibrium formed by the neutralization within the unit cell of a superconductor. A superconductor with little or no magnetic field within it is said to be in the Meissner **state**. The Meissner state breaks down when the applied magnetic field is too strong. Superconductors can be divided into two classes according to how this breakdown occurs.  Most pure elemental superconduc...
448. ...ure of equilibrium formed by the neutralization within the unit cell of a superconductor. A superconductor with little or no magnetic field within it is said to be in the Meissner state. The Meissner **state** breaks down when the applied magnetic field is too strong. Superconductors can be divided into two classes according to how this breakdown occurs.  Most pure elemental superconductors, except niobium...
449. ...to ordinary electromagnetic induction at zero resistance. However, the Meissner effect is distinct from this: when an ordinary conductor is cooled so that it makes the transition to a superconducting **state** in the presence of a constant applied magnetic field, the magnetic flux is expelled during the transition. This effect cannot be explained by infinite conductivity, but only by the London equation. T...
450. ...he superconductor experiences zero resistance, there cannot be an induced emf in the superconductor. The persisting current therefore is not a result of Faraday's Law. Superconductors in the Meissner **state** exhibit perfect diamagnetism, or superdiamagnetism, meaning that the total magnetic field is very close to zero deep inside them (many penetration depths from the surface). This means that their volu...
451. ...exposed to this amount of radiation have their cognitive performance degraded in two to three hours, depending on how physically demanding the tasks they must perform are, and remain in this disabled **state** at least two days. However, at that point they experience a recovery period and can perform non-demanding tasks for about six days, after which they relapse for about four weeks. At this time they be...
452. ...ing the capacitance of a capacitor. In the simplest case, the electric displacement field resulting from an applied electric field E is More generally, the permittivity is a thermodynamic function of **state**. It can depend on the frequency, magnitude, and direction of the applied field. The SI unit for permittivity is farad per meter (F/m). The permittivity is often represented by the relative permittivi...
453. ...d from plasma is sometimes referred to as free–free radiation. This refers to the fact that the radiation in this case is created by electrons that are free (i.e., not in an atomic or molecular bound **state**) before, and remain free after, the emission of a photon. In the same parlance, bound–bound radiation refers to discrete spectral lines (an electron "jumps" between two bound states), while free–boun...
454. ...Since formula_62 and formula_64 are independent of formula_67, this means that formula_74 must be the blackbody spectrum whenever the matter is in equilibrium at some temperature – regardless of the **state** of the radiation. This allows us to immediately know both formula_62 and formula_64 once one is known – for matter in equilibrium. NOTE: this section currently gives formulas that apply in the Raylei...
455. ...ic number, formula_126 the fine-structure constant, formula_113 the reduced Planck constant and formula_128 the speed of light. The kinetic energy formula_129 of the electron in the initial and final **state** is connected to its total energy formula_130 or its momenta formula_131 via formula_132 where formula_27 is the mass of an electron. Conservation of energy gives formula_134 where formula_135 is the...
456. ...leus and electron is The range of validity is given by the Born approximation formula_140 where this relation has to be fulfilled for the velocity formula_141 of the electron in the initial and final **state**. For practical applications (e.g. in Monte Carlo codes) it can be interesting to focus on the relation between the frequency formula_85 of the emitted photon and the angle between this photon and the...
457. ...ny proposed approaches, commercialization will require the additional ability to measure and separate diverter gases, for example helium and impurities, and to monitor fuel breeding, for instance the **state** of a tritium breeding liquid lithium liner. The following are some basic techniques. Neutron blankets absorb neutrons, which heats the blanket. Power can be extracted from the blanket in various ways...
458. ...or tritium or mishandling of radioactive reactor components. A magnet quench is an abnormal termination of magnet operation that occurs when part of the superconducting coil exits the superconducting **state** (becomes normal). This can occur because the field inside the magnet is too large, the rate of change of field is too large (causing eddy currents and resultant heating in the copper support matrix),...
459. ...quench. When this happens, that particular spot is subject to rapid Joule heating from the current, which raises the temperature of the surrounding regions. This pushes those regions into the normal **state** as well, which leads to more heating in a chain reaction. The entire magnet rapidly becomes normal over several seconds, depending on the size of the superconducting coil. This is accompanied by a lo...
460. ...The electron gains no internal energy, respective masses remain the same, the mark of an elastic collision. From this perspective, Compton scattering could be considered elastic because the internal **state** of the electron does not change during the scattering process. In the latter perspective, the atom's state is change, constituting an inelastic collision. Whether Compton scattering is considered ela...
461. .... From this perspective, Compton scattering could be considered elastic because the internal state of the electron does not change during the scattering process. In the latter perspective, the atom's **state** is change, constituting an inelastic collision. Whether Compton scattering is considered elastic or inelastic depends on which perspective is being used, as well as the context. Compton scattering is...
462. ...ctly measurable observable. In modern experiments it is conventional to measure the energies, not the wavelengths, of the scattered photons. For a given incident energy formula_10, the outgoing final-**state** photon energy, formula_11, is given by formula_12 A photon with wavelength collides with an electron in an atom, which is treated as being at rest. The collision causes the electron to recoil, and a...
463. ...Since this scattering process is incoherent (there is no phase relationship between the scattered photons), the MCP is representative of the bulk properties of the sample and is a probe of the ground **state**. This means that the MCP is ideal for comparison with theoretical techniques such as density functional theory. The area under the MCP is directly proportional to the spin moment of the system and so...
464. ...from a transistor on the display). Similar to LCD trends, there have also been Active Matrix EL (AMEL) displays demonstrated, where the circuitry is added to prolong voltages at each pixel. The solid-**state** nature of TFEL allows for a very rugged and high-resolution display fabricated even on silicon substrates. AMEL displays of 1280×1024 at over 1000 lines per inch (LPI) have been demonstrated by a con...
465. ...face strain and relaxation played a critical role for a range of materials, and examined the tribocharging of many different elements with silica. Much of this work predates an understanding of solid **state** variations of energies levels with position, and also band bending. It was in the early 1950s in the work of authors such as Vick that these were taken into account along with concepts such as quantu...
466. ...which help drive charge transfer via the flexoelectric effect. There are also suggestions that surface or trapped charges are important. More recently there have been attempts to include a full solid **state** description. From early work starting around the end of the 19th century a large amount of information is available about what, empirically, causes triboelectricity. While there is extensive experime...
467. ...20 by theoretical physicists Robert Alicki and Alejandro Jenkins. They argued that the electrons in the two materials that slide against each other have different velocities, giving a non-equilibrium **state**. Quantum effects cause this imbalance to pump electrons from one material to the other. This is a fermionic analog of the mechanism of rotational superradiance originally described by Yakov Zeldovich...
468. ...ansport electronics), also known as spin electronics, is the study of the intrinsic spin of the electron and its associated magnetic moment, in addition to its fundamental electronic charge, in solid-**state** devices. The field of spintronics concerns spin-charge coupling in metallic systems; the analogous effects in insulators fall into the field of multiferroics. Spintronics fundamentally differs from t...
469. ...e coupling in metallic systems; the analogous effects in insulators fall into the field of multiferroics. Spintronics fundamentally differs from traditional electronics in that, in addition to charge **state**, electron spins are used as a further degree of freedom, with implications in the efficiency of data storage and transfer. Spintronic systems are most often realised in dilute magnetic semiconductors...
470. ...of particular interest in the field of quantum computing and neuromorphic computing. Spintronics emerged from discoveries in the 1980s concerning spin-dependent electron transport phenomena in solid-**state** devices. This includes the observation of spin-polarized electron injection from a ferromagnetic metal to a normal metal by Johnson and Silsbee (1985) and the discovery of giant magnetoresistance ind...
471. ...nd electronic properties of a material, for example endowing it with a permanent magnetic moment as in a ferromagnet. In many materials, electron spins are equally present in both the up and the down **state**, and no transport properties are dependent on spin. A spintronic device requires generation or manipulation of a spin-polarized population of electrons, resulting in an excess of spin up or spin down...
472. ...lation can be broadly classified as spin-flip scattering and spin dephasing. Spin-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up **state** into an outgoing spin down state. Spin dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common spin state becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron spin pre...
473. ...as spin-flip scattering and spin dephasing. Spin-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up state into an outgoing spin down **state**. Spin dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common spin state becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron spin precession. In confined structures,...
474. ...id that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up state into an outgoing spin down state. Spin dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common spin **state** becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron spin precession. In confined structures, spin dephasing can be suppressed, leading to spin lifetimes of milliseconds in semiconduct...
475. ...en does, strike the same place more than once. Lightning in a thunderstorm is more likely to strike objects and spots that are more prominent or conductive. For instance, lightning strikes the Empire **State** Building in New York City on average 23 times per year. In French and Italian, the expression for "Love at first sight" is "coup de foudre" and "colpo di fulmine", respectively, which literally trans...
476. ...ystal. The material's electrons seek to minimize the total energy in the material by settling into low energy states; however, the Pauli exclusion principle means that only one can exist in each such **state**. So the electrons "fill up" the band structure starting from the bottom. The characteristic energy level up to which the electrons have filled is called the Fermi level. The position of the Fermi lev...
477. ...Debye lengths. The dynamics of plasmas interacting with external and self-generated magnetic fields are studied in the academic discipline of magnetohydrodynamics. Plasma is often called the "fourth **state** of matter" after solid, liquids and gases. It is distinct from these and other lower-energy states of matter. Although it is closely related to the gas phase in that it also has no definite form or v...
478. ...hat the ion velocity at the sheath edge is simply the sound speed given by formula_4. The ion temperature term is often neglected, which is justified if the ions are cold. "Z" is the (average) charge **state** of the ions, and formula_5 is the adiabatic coefficient for the ions. The proper choice of formula_5 is a matter of some contention. Most analyses use formula_7, corresponding to isothermal ions, but...
479. ...a_11 times smaller. Uncertainties of this magnitude arise several places in the analysis of Langmuir probe data and are very difficult to resolve. The charge density of the ions depends on the charge **state** "Z", but quasineutrality allows one to write it simply in terms of the electron density as formula_12, where formula_13 is the charge of an electron and formula_14 is the number density of electrons....
480. ...s launching an attack on enemy bombers (presumably belonging to the Soviet Union), which causes the detonation of an atomic bomb on board one of the aircraft. The nuclear blast releases Gamera from a **state** of suspended animation in the ice. Meanwhile, a Japanese research team stumbles upon an Inuit tribe in possession of an ancient stone etching that depicts a giant turtle, which the tribe refers to as...
481. ...omputer-generated imagery. It has been rumored since the film's showing at New York Comic Con that it was never completed. However, the film's official website and an interview with the director both **state** that it was only a short proof of concept film. However, Inoue was actually trying to reboot the franchise with a new film. An anime series, titled "Gamera Rebirth", was released globally on Netflix...
482. ...he name was also chosen in reference to the university's mascot, the diamondback terrapin, as well as to flights undertaken by Japanese human-powered helicopters years prior. In July 2011, Washington **State** University veterinarians successfully fixed a prosthetic caster onto an African spurred tortoise named Gamera (after the giant turtle), who was a single amputee where Avant Gamera and Toto in "Gamera...
483. ...d by primary (single-use) and secondary (rechargeable) cells is usually of the order of a few volts. The figures quoted below are nominal, because emf varies according to the size of the load and the **state** of exhaustion of the cell. Other chemical sources include fuel cells. Electromagnetic induction is the production of a circulating electric field by a time-dependent magnetic field. A time-dependent...
484. ...o reach neighboring star Alpha Centauri in 100 years (approx. velocity of 13,411 km/s, at a distance of 4.5 light years, equivalent to 4.5% of light speed). In the mid-1990s, research at Pennsylvania **State** University led to the concept of using antimatter to catalyze nuclear reactions. Antiprotons would react inside the nucleus of uranium, releasing energy that breaks the nucleus apart as in convention...
485. ...are sometimes associated with a heat burst. This kind of storm is also known as "Wind of the Stony Lake" (; shi2 hu2 feng1) in southern China. Supercell storms are large, usually severe, quasi-steady-**state** storms that form in an environment where wind speed or wind direction varies with height ("wind shear"), and they have separate downdrafts and updrafts (i.e., where its associated precipitation is no...
486. ...arp electrodes, brush discharge from blunt electrodes, etc. ESD can cause harmful effects of importance in industry, including explosions in gas, fuel vapor and coal dust, as well as failure of solid **state** electronics components such as integrated circuits. These can suffer permanent damage when subjected to high voltages. Electronics manufacturers therefore establish electrostatic protective areas fre...
487. ...unconstitutional at the time of execution. A significant shift occurred on February 8, 2008, when the Nebraska Supreme Court ruled electric chair execution as "cruel and unusual punishment" under the **state** constitution. This decision ended electric chair executions in Nebraska, the last state to rely solely on this method. In the late 1870s to early 1880s, the spread of arc lighting, a type of outdoor...
488. ...008, when the Nebraska Supreme Court ruled electric chair execution as "cruel and unusual punishment" under the state constitution. This decision ended electric chair executions in Nebraska, the last **state** to rely solely on this method. In the late 1870s to early 1880s, the spread of arc lighting, a type of outdoor street lighting that required high voltages in the range of 3000–6000 volts, was followe...
489. ...tric chair". After a series of botched hangings in the United States, there was mounting criticism of that form of capital punishment and the death penalty in general. In 1886, newly elected New York **State** governor David B. Hill set up a three-member death penalty commission, which was chaired by the human rights advocate and reformer Elbridge Thomas Gerry and included New York lawyer and politician Ma...
490. ...more humane means of execution. The commission members surveyed the history of execution and sent out a fact-finding questionnaire to government officials, lawyers, and medical experts all around the **state** asking for their opinion. A slight majority of respondents recommended hanging over electrocution, with a few instead recommending the abolition of capital punishment. The commission also contacted e...
491. ...sion recommended electrocution using Southwick's electric chair idea with metal conductors attached to the condemned person's head and feet. They further recommended that executions be handled by the **state** instead of the individual counties with three electric chairs set up at Auburn, Clinton, and Sing Sing prisons. A bill following these recommendations passed the legislature and was signed by Governo...
492. ...ot determined, and since tests up to that point had been done on animals smaller than a human (dogs), some members were unsure that the lethality of AC had been conclusively proven. At this point the **state**'s efforts to design the electric chair became intermixed with what has come to be known as the war of the currents, a competition between Thomas Edison's direct current power system and George Westin...
493. ...val, the Thomson-Houston Electric Company, a move that made sure that Westinghouse's equipment would be associated with the first execution. The electric chair was built by Edwin F. Davis, the first "**state** electrician" (executioner) for the State of New York. The first person in line to die under New York's new electrocution law was Joseph Chapleau, convicted for beating his neighbor to death with a sl...
494. ..., a move that made sure that Westinghouse's equipment would be associated with the first execution. The electric chair was built by Edwin F. Davis, the first "state electrician" (executioner) for the **State** of New York. The first person in line to die under New York's new electrocution law was Joseph Chapleau, convicted for beating his neighbor to death with a sled stake, but his sentence was commuted t...
495. ...rk Court of Appeals on the grounds that use of electricity as a means of execution constituted a "cruel and unusual punishment" and was thus contrary to the constitutions of the United States and the **state** of New York. On December 30, 1889, the writ of "habeas corpus" sworn out on Kemmler's behalf was denied by the court, with Judge Dwight writing in a lengthy ruling: We have no doubt that if the Legis...
496. ...n December 30, 1889, the writ of "habeas corpus" sworn out on Kemmler's behalf was denied by the court, with Judge Dwight writing in a lengthy ruling: We have no doubt that if the Legislature of this **State** should undertake to proscribe for any offense against its laws the punishment of burning at the stake, breaking at the wheel, etc., it would be the duty of the courts to pronounce upon such attempt t...
497. ...t whether an electric current of sufficient intensity and skillfully applied will produce death without unnecessary suffering. Kemmler was executed in New York's Auburn Prison on August 6, 1890; the "**state** electrician" was Edwin Davis. The first 17-second passage of 1,000 volts AC through Kemmler caused unconsciousness, but failed to stop his heart and breathing. The attending physicians, Edward Charle...
498. ...urrent was turned on. It remains one of the best-known examples of photojournalism. A record was set on July 13, 1928, when seven men were executed consecutively in the electric chair at the Kentucky **State** Penitentiary in Eddyville, Kentucky. On June 16, 1944, an African-American teenager, 14-year-old George Stinney, became the youngest person ever executed in the electric chair when he was electrocute...
499. ...nder the Sixth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. On May 3, 1946, an African-American teenager named Willie Francis became the first person known to have survived the electric chair in the Louisiana **State** Penitentiary in West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. His appeals to the death penalty failed, and was executed again on May 9, 1947, at age 18. His trial has claimed to be unfair, which the trial also v...
500. ...options of lethal injection, the electric chair, and a firing squad. In 2022, a judge in Richland County, declared that the firing squad and electrocution were both in violation of the South Carolina **State** Constitution, which bans methods that are "cruel, unusual, or corporal." The court, in their decision, stated that there was no evidence that electrocution could instantaneously or painlessly kill an...
501. ...ing burned alive—a punishment that has 'long been recognized as manifestly cruel and unusual.'" The ruling led to a permanent injunction being issued against both methods of execution, preventing the **state** from subjecting death row inmates to death by firing squad or electrocution. In July 2024, the Supreme Court of South Carolina ruled that electrocution and firing squad was legal. On March 5, 2024, L...
502. ...ditions (size and pollution) at the moment of the discharge. Also, the open circuit voltage (i.e. the voltage between the electrodes when the dielectric is not yet broken) can be identified as steady **state** voltage of the RC circuit. In generators based on transistor control, the user is usually able to deliver a train of pulses of voltage to the electrodes. Each pulse can be controlled in shape, for in...
503. ...armature winding sets. Continuous torque density relates to method of cooling and permissible operation period before destruction by overheating of windings or permanent magnet damage. Other sources **state** that various e-machine topologies have differing torque density. One source shows the following: where—specific torque density is normalized to 1.0 for the surface permanent magnet (SPM)—brushless ac...
504. ...after him. Joule's many honours and commendations include: There is a memorial to Joule in the north choir aisle of Westminster Abbey, though he is not buried there, contrary to what some biographies **state**. A statue of Joule by Alfred Gilbert stands in Manchester Town Hall, opposite that of Dalton. Joule married Amelia Grimes in 1847. She died in 1854, seven years after their wedding. They had three ch...
505. ...ern halogen-filled G–M tube was invented by Sidney H. Liebson in 1947 and has several advantages over the older tubes with organic mixtures. The halogen tube discharge takes advantage of a metastable **state** of the inert gas atom to more-readily ionize a halogen molecule than an organic vapor, enabling the tube to operate at much lower voltages, typically 400–600 volts instead of 900–1200 volts. While ha...
506. ...ny voltage variations. The ideal G–M tube should produce a single pulse for every single ionizing event due to radiation. It should not give spurious pulses, and should recover quickly to the passive **state**, ready for the next radiation event. However, when positive argon ions reach the cathode and become neutral atoms by gaining electrons, the atoms can be elevated to enhanced energy levels. These atom...
507. ...event. However, when positive argon ions reach the cathode and become neutral atoms by gaining electrons, the atoms can be elevated to enhanced energy levels. These atoms then return to their ground **state** by emitting photons which in turn produce further ionization and thereby spurious secondary discharges. If nothing were done to counteract this, ionization would be prolonged and could even escalate....
508. ...formally thought of as the placement of electron atomic orbitals around the atomic nucleus. When a caesium atom within the chamber encounters a photon from the laser, it is excited to a higher energy **state**, emits a photon and falls to an indeterminate lower energy state. The caesium atom is "sensitive" to the photons from the laser in three of its nine energy states, and therefore, assuming a closed sy...
509. ...around the atomic nucleus. When a caesium atom within the chamber encounters a photon from the laser, it is excited to a higher energy state, emits a photon and falls to an indeterminate lower energy **state**. The caesium atom is "sensitive" to the photons from the laser in three of its nine energy states, and therefore, assuming a closed system, all the atoms eventually fall into a state in which all the...
510. ...ate lower energy state. The caesium atom is "sensitive" to the photons from the laser in three of its nine energy states, and therefore, assuming a closed system, all the atoms eventually fall into a **state** in which all the photons from the laser pass through unhindered and are measured by the photon detector. The caesium vapour has become transparent. This process happens continuously to maintain as ma...
511. ...pass through unhindered and are measured by the photon detector. The caesium vapour has become transparent. This process happens continuously to maintain as many of the electrons as possible in that **state**. At this point, the sample (or population) is said to have been optically pumped and ready for measurement to take place. When an external field is applied it disrupts this state and causes atoms to...
512. ...as possible in that state. At this point, the sample (or population) is said to have been optically pumped and ready for measurement to take place. When an external field is applied it disrupts this **state** and causes atoms to move to different states which makes the vapour less transparent. The photo detector can measure this change and therefore measure the magnitude of the magnetic field. In the most...
513. ...nce the difference in the energy levels of the electrons is determined by the external magnetic field, there is a frequency at which this small AC field makes the electrons change states. In this new **state**, the electrons once again can absorb a photon of light. This causes a signal on a photo detector that measures the light passing through the cell. The associated electronics use this fact to create a...
514. ...alkali vapour magnetometers that use irregular, composite and wide spectral lines and helium with the inherently wide spectral line. Magnetometers based on helium-4 excited to its metastable triplet **state** thanks to a plasma discharge have been developed in the 1960s and 70s by Texas Instruments, then by its spinoff Polatomic, and from late 1980s by . The latter pioneered a configuration which cancels...
515. ...ovided it is uniform, and to the sine of the angle between the rotation axis of the coil and the field lines. This type of magnetometer is obsolete. The most common magnetic sensing devices are solid-**state** Hall effect sensors. These sensors produce a voltage proportional to the applied magnetic field and also sense polarity. They are used in applications where the magnetic field strength is relatively...
516. ...re each wound in opposing directions. Such closed flux paths minimise coupling between the drive and sense windings. In the presence of an external magnetic field, with the core in a highly permeable **state**, such a field is locally attracted or gated (hence the name fluxgate) through the sense winding. When the core is weakly permeable, the external field is less attracted. This continuous gating of the...
517. ...oint energy Zero-point energy (ZPE) is the lowest possible energy that a quantum mechanical system may have. Unlike in classical mechanics, quantum systems constantly fluctuate in their lowest energy **state** as described by the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Therefore, even at absolute zero, atoms and molecules retain some vibrational motion. Apart from atoms and molecules, the empty space of the vacu...
518. ...ds the key to a full understanding of nature". The term zero-point energy (ZPE) is a translation from the German . Sometimes used interchangeably with it are the terms zero-point radiation and ground **state** energy. The term zero-point field (ZPF) can be used when referring to a specific vacuum field, for instance the QED vacuum which specifically deals with quantum electrodynamics (e.g., electromagnetic...
519. ...ween quarks, gluons and the vacuum). A vacuum can be viewed not as empty space but as the combination of all zero-point fields. In quantum field theory this combination of fields is called the vacuum **state**, its associated zero-point energy is called the vacuum energy and the average energy value is called the vacuum expectation value (VEV) also called its condensate. In classical mechanics all particle...
520. ...system as a harmonic oscillator, or wave function, that fluctuates between various energy states (see wave-particle duality). All quantum mechanical systems undergo fluctuations even in their ground **state**, a consequence of their wave-like nature. The uncertainty principle requires every quantum mechanical system to have a fluctuating zero-point energy greater than the minimum of its classical potentia...
521. ...energy fluctuations of the electromagnetic field in order to get started. In a process in which a photon is annihilated (absorbed), the photon can be thought of as making a transition into the vacuum **state**. Similarly, when a photon is created (emitted), it is occasionally useful to imagine that the photon has made a transition out of the vacuum state. In the words of Dirac: Contemporary physicists, whe...
522. ...be thought of as making a transition into the vacuum state. Similarly, when a photon is created (emitted), it is occasionally useful to imagine that the photon has made a transition out of the vacuum **state**. In the words of Dirac: Contemporary physicists, when asked to give a physical explanation for spontaneous emission, generally invoke the zero-point energy of the electromagnetic field. This view was...
523. ...ates that complementary variables (such as a particle's position and momentum, or a field's value and derivative at a point in space) cannot simultaneously be specified precisely by any given quantum **state**. In particular, there cannot exist a state in which the system simply sits motionless at the bottom of its potential well, for then its position and momentum would both be completely determined to ar...
524. ...a particle's position and momentum, or a field's value and derivative at a point in space) cannot simultaneously be specified precisely by any given quantum state. In particular, there cannot exist a **state** in which the system simply sits motionless at the bottom of its potential well, for then its position and momentum would both be completely determined to arbitrarily great precision. Therefore, the l...
525. ...system simply sits motionless at the bottom of its potential well, for then its position and momentum would both be completely determined to arbitrarily great precision. Therefore, the lowest-energy **state** (the ground state) of the system must have a distribution in position and momentum that satisfies the uncertainty principle, which implies its energy must be greater than the minimum of the potential...
526. ...s motionless at the bottom of its potential well, for then its position and momentum would both be completely determined to arbitrarily great precision. Therefore, the lowest-energy state (the ground **state**) of the system must have a distribution in position and momentum that satisfies the uncertainty principle, which implies its energy must be greater than the minimum of the potential well. Near the bo...
527. ...he expectation value of the energy must therefore be at least formula_6 where is the angular frequency at which the system oscillates. A more thorough treatment, showing that the energy of the ground **state** actually saturates this bound and is exactly , requires solving for the ground state of the system. The idea of a quantum harmonic oscillator and its associated energy can apply to either an atom or...
528. ...angular frequency at which the system oscillates. A more thorough treatment, showing that the energy of the ground state actually saturates this bound and is exactly , requires solving for the ground **state** of the system. The idea of a quantum harmonic oscillator and its associated energy can apply to either an atom or a subatomic particle. In ordinary atomic physics, the zero-point energy is the energy...
529. ...a quantum harmonic oscillator and its associated energy can apply to either an atom or a subatomic particle. In ordinary atomic physics, the zero-point energy is the energy associated with the ground **state** of the system. The professional physics literature tends to measure frequency, as denoted by above, using angular frequency, denoted with and defined by . This leads to a convention of writing the Pl...
530. ...his leads to a convention of writing the Planck constant with a bar through its top () to denote the quantity . In these terms, an example of zero-point energy is the above associated with the ground **state** of the quantum harmonic oscillator. In quantum mechanical terms, the zero-point energy is the expectation value of the Hamiltonian of the system in the ground state. If more than one ground state exi...
531. ...e above associated with the ground state of the quantum harmonic oscillator. In quantum mechanical terms, the zero-point energy is the expectation value of the Hamiltonian of the system in the ground **state**. If more than one ground state exists, they are said to be degenerate. Many systems have degenerate ground states. Degeneracy occurs whenever there exists a unitary operator which acts non-trivially...
532. ...und state of the quantum harmonic oscillator. In quantum mechanical terms, the zero-point energy is the expectation value of the Hamiltonian of the system in the ground state. If more than one ground **state** exists, they are said to be degenerate. Many systems have degenerate ground states. Degeneracy occurs whenever there exists a unitary operator which acts non-trivially on a ground state and commutes...
533. ...an one ground state exists, they are said to be degenerate. Many systems have degenerate ground states. Degeneracy occurs whenever there exists a unitary operator which acts non-trivially on a ground **state** and commutes with the Hamiltonian of the system. According to the third law of thermodynamics, a system at absolute zero temperature exists in its ground state; thus, its entropy is determined by the...
534. ...or which acts non-trivially on a ground state and commutes with the Hamiltonian of the system. According to the third law of thermodynamics, a system at absolute zero temperature exists in its ground **state**; thus, its entropy is determined by the degeneracy of the ground state. Many systems, such as a perfect crystal lattice, have a unique ground state and therefore have zero entropy at absolute zero. I...
535. ...iltonian of the system. According to the third law of thermodynamics, a system at absolute zero temperature exists in its ground state; thus, its entropy is determined by the degeneracy of the ground **state**. Many systems, such as a perfect crystal lattice, have a unique ground state and therefore have zero entropy at absolute zero. It is also possible for the highest excited state to have absolute zero...
536. ...m at absolute zero temperature exists in its ground state; thus, its entropy is determined by the degeneracy of the ground state. Many systems, such as a perfect crystal lattice, have a unique ground **state** and therefore have zero entropy at absolute zero. It is also possible for the highest excited state to have absolute zero temperature for systems that exhibit negative temperature. The wave function...
537. ...generacy of the ground state. Many systems, such as a perfect crystal lattice, have a unique ground state and therefore have zero entropy at absolute zero. It is also possible for the highest excited **state** to have absolute zero temperature for systems that exhibit negative temperature. The wave function of the ground state of a particle in a one-dimensional well is a half-period sine wave which goes to...
538. ...have zero entropy at absolute zero. It is also possible for the highest excited state to have absolute zero temperature for systems that exhibit negative temperature. The wave function of the ground **state** of a particle in a one-dimensional well is a half-period sine wave which goes to zero at the two edges of the well. The energy of the particle is given by: formula_7 where is the Planck constant, is...
539. ...is a half-period sine wave which goes to zero at the two edges of the well. The energy of the particle is given by: formula_7 where is the Planck constant, is the mass of the particle, is the energy **state** ( corresponds to the ground-state energy), and is the width of the well. In quantum field theory (QFT), the fabric of "empty" space is visualized as consisting of fields, with the field at every poin...
540. ...goes to zero at the two edges of the well. The energy of the particle is given by: formula_7 where is the Planck constant, is the mass of the particle, is the energy state ( corresponds to the ground-**state** energy), and is the width of the well. In quantum field theory (QFT), the fabric of "empty" space is visualized as consisting of fields, with the field at every point in space and time being a quantu...
541. ...i.e. photons and gluons) and a Higgs field whose quantum is the Higgs boson. The matter and force fields have zero-point energy. A related term is "zero-point field" (ZPF), which is the lowest energy **state** of a particular field. The vacuum can be viewed not as empty space, but as the combination of all zero-point fields. In QFT the zero-point energy of the vacuum state is called the vacuum energy and t...
542. ...(ZPF), which is the lowest energy state of a particular field. The vacuum can be viewed not as empty space, but as the combination of all zero-point fields. In QFT the zero-point energy of the vacuum **state** is called the vacuum energy and the average expectation value of the Hamiltonian is called the vacuum expectation value (also called condensate or simply VEV). The QED vacuum is a part of the vacuum...
543. ...is called the vacuum energy and the average expectation value of the Hamiltonian is called the vacuum expectation value (also called condensate or simply VEV). The QED vacuum is a part of the vacuum **state** which specifically deals with quantum electrodynamics (e.g. electromagnetic interactions between photons, electrons and the vacuum) and the QCD vacuum deals with quantum chromodynamics (e.g. color ch...
544. ...ely bathed in the zero-point electromagnetic field, and as such it can add only some constant amount to expectation values. Physical measurements will therefore reveal only deviations from the vacuum **state**. Thus the zero-point energy can be dropped from the Hamiltonian by redefining the zero of energy, or by arguing that it is a constant and therefore has no effect on Heisenberg equations of motion. Th...
545. ...Hamiltonian by redefining the zero of energy, or by arguing that it is a constant and therefore has no effect on Heisenberg equations of motion. Thus we can choose to declare by fiat that the ground **state** has zero energy and a field Hamiltonian, for example, can be replaced by: formula_11 without affecting any physical predictions of the theory. The new Hamiltonian is said to be normally ordered (or W...
546. ...nite number of uncoupled harmonic oscillators. Thus different modes of the field are independent and satisfy the commutation relations: formula_27 Clearly the least eigenvalue for is: formula_28 This **state** describes the zero-point energy of the vacuum. It appears that this sum is divergent – in fact highly divergent, as putting in the density factor formula_29 shows. The summation becomes approximately...
547. ...the Casimir effect, contribution to the Lamb shift, or anomalous magnetic moment of the electron, it is clear it is not just a mathematical constant or artifact that can be cancelled out. The vacuum **state** of the "free" electromagnetic field (that with no sources) is defined as the ground state in which for all modes . The vacuum state, like all stationary states of the field, is an eigenstate of the H...
548. ...lectron, it is clear it is not just a mathematical constant or artifact that can be cancelled out. The vacuum state of the "free" electromagnetic field (that with no sources) is defined as the ground **state** in which for all modes . The vacuum state, like all stationary states of the field, is an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian but not the electric and magnetic field operators. In the vacuum state, therefo...
549. ...ematical constant or artifact that can be cancelled out. The vacuum state of the "free" electromagnetic field (that with no sources) is defined as the ground state in which for all modes . The vacuum **state**, like all stationary states of the field, is an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian but not the electric and magnetic field operators. In the vacuum state, therefore, the electric and magnetic fields do no...
550. ...e ground state in which for all modes . The vacuum state, like all stationary states of the field, is an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian but not the electric and magnetic field operators. In the vacuum **state**, therefore, the electric and magnetic fields do not have definite values. We can imagine them to be fluctuating about their mean value of zero. In a process in which a photon is annihilated (absorbed...
551. ...lues. We can imagine them to be fluctuating about their mean value of zero. In a process in which a photon is annihilated (absorbed), we can think of the photon as making a transition into the vacuum **state**. Similarly, when a photon is created (emitted), it is occasionally useful to imagine that the photon has made a transition out of the vacuum state. An atom, for instance, can be considered to be "dre...
552. ...of the photon as making a transition into the vacuum state. Similarly, when a photon is created (emitted), it is occasionally useful to imagine that the photon has made a transition out of the vacuum **state**. An atom, for instance, can be considered to be "dressed" by emission and reabsorption of "virtual photons" from the vacuum. The vacuum state energy described by is infinite. We can make the replacem...
553. ...e that the photon has made a transition out of the vacuum state. An atom, for instance, can be considered to be "dressed" by emission and reabsorption of "virtual photons" from the vacuum. The vacuum **state** energy described by is infinite. We can make the replacement: formula_31 the zero-point energy density is: formula_32 or in other words the spectral energy density of the vacuum field: formula_33 The...
554. ...on formula_47 satisfied by the field in the (source free) vacuum. For this reason is often referred to as the "vacuum field", although it is of course a Heisenberg-picture operator acting on whatever **state** of the field happens to be appropriate at . is the source field, the field generated by the dipole and acting on the dipole. Using the above equation for we obtain an equation for the Heisenberg-pict...
555. ...ee or vacuum field . According to our earlier equation for the free field is the only field in existence at as the time at which the interaction between the dipole and the field is "switched on". The **state** vector of the dipole-field system at is therefore of the form formula_50 where is the vacuum state of the field and is the initial state of the dipole oscillator. The expectation value of the free fi...
556. ...tence at as the time at which the interaction between the dipole and the field is "switched on". The state vector of the dipole-field system at is therefore of the form formula_50 where is the vacuum **state** of the field and is the initial state of the dipole oscillator. The expectation value of the free field is therefore at all times equal to zero: formula_51 since . however, the energy density associa...
557. ...raction between the dipole and the field is "switched on". The state vector of the dipole-field system at is therefore of the form formula_50 where is the vacuum state of the field and is the initial **state** of the dipole oscillator. The expectation value of the free field is therefore at all times equal to zero: formula_51 since . however, the energy density associated with the free field is infinite: f...
558. ...e oscillator is preserved. it is easy to show that after a few damping times the zero-point motion of the oscillator is in fact sustained by the driving zero-point field. The QCD vacuum is the vacuum **state** of quantum chromodynamics (QCD). It is an example of a "non-perturbative" vacuum state, characterized by a non-vanishing condensates such as the gluon condensate and the quark condensate in the compl...
559. ...oint motion of the oscillator is in fact sustained by the driving zero-point field. The QCD vacuum is the vacuum state of quantum chromodynamics (QCD). It is an example of a "non-perturbative" vacuum **state**, characterized by a non-vanishing condensates such as the gluon condensate and the quark condensate in the complete theory which includes quarks. The presence of these condensates characterizes the c...
560. ...nonlinear equations to characterize such interactions. The Standard Model hypothesises a field called the Higgs field (symbol: ), which has the unusual property of a non-zero amplitude in its ground **state** (zero-point) energy after renormalization; i.e., a non-zero vacuum expectation value. It can have this effect because of its unusual "Mexican hat" shaped potential whose lowest "point" is not at its...
561. ...ggs field are "absorbed" by the massive bosons as degrees of freedom, and couple to the fermions via Yukawa coupling, thereby producing the expected mass terms. The expectation value of in the ground **state** (the vacuum expectation value or VEV) is then , where . The measured value of this parameter is approximately . It has units of mass, and is the only free parameter of the Standard Model that is not...
562. ...n observed for several years now in precision experiment in high-energy physics. In the presence of strong electrostatic fields it is predicted that virtual particles become separated from the vacuum **state** and form real matter. The fact that electromagnetic radiation can be transformed into matter and vice versa leads to fundamentally new features in quantum electrodynamics. One of the most important c...
563. ...operties of a birefringent medium, thus in principle a rotation of the polarization frame (the Faraday effect) can be observed in empty space. Both Einstein's theory of special and general relativity **state** that light should pass freely through a vacuum without being altered, a principle known as Lorentz invariance. Yet, in theory, large nonlinear self-interaction of light due to quantum fluctuations sh...
564. ...a fluctuating field. Such a derivation was first given by Schwinger (1975) for a scalar field, and then generalized to the electromagnetic case by Schwinger, DeRaad, and Milton (1978). in which they **state** "the vacuum is regarded as truly a state with all physical properties equal to zero". Jaffe (2005) has highlighted a similar approach in deriving the Casimir effect stating "the concept of zero-point...
565. ...as first given by Schwinger (1975) for a scalar field, and then generalized to the electromagnetic case by Schwinger, DeRaad, and Milton (1978). in which they state "the vacuum is regarded as truly a **state** with all physical properties equal to zero". Jaffe (2005) has highlighted a similar approach in deriving the Casimir effect stating "the concept of zero-point fluctuations is a heuristic and calculat...
566. ..." dissipative random thermal energy. The transition from disorganised fluctuations to organised helical structures is a phase transition involving a change in the condensate's energy (i.e. the ground **state** or zero-point energy) but "without any associated rise in temperature". This is an example of zero-point energy having multiple stable states (see Quantum phase transition, Quantum critical point, To...
567. ...lable, usable or potential energy for useful work) which the universe is able to use to create ever more complex forms of order. The only reason Earth's environment does not decay into an equilibrium **state** is that it receives a daily dose of sunshine and that, in turn, is due to the sun "polluting" interstellar space with entropy. The sun's fusion power is only possible due to the gravitational disequi...
568. ...n the spheron model of the nucleus, proposed by the two times Nobel laureate Linus Pauling, dineutrons are among the components of this structure. Similarly to a dumbbell put in a suitable rotational **state**, but with nuclear mass density, dineutrons are nearly ideal sources of gravitational waves at X-ray and gamma-ray frequencies. The dynamical interplay, mediated by nuclear forces, between the electri...
569. ...ated by nuclear forces, between the electrically neutral dineutrons and the electrically charged core nucleus is the fundamental mechanism by which nuclear vibrations can be converted to a rotational **state** of dineutrons with emission of gravitational waves. Gravity and gravitational waves are well described by General Relativity, that is not a quantum theory, this implies that there is no Zero-point en...
570. ...y signals, disappears rapidly on the dark side of the terminator, whereas the E and F layers above the D layer take longer to form. This time-difference puts the ionosphere into a unique intermediate **state** along the terminator, called the "grey line". Amateur radio operators take advantage of conditions along the terminator to perform long-distance communications. Called "gray-line" or "grey-line" prop...
571. ...lassified as "lumped" or "distributed". The difference can be explained by considering the meaning of memory in a system. Future output of a system with memory depends on future input and a number of **state** variables, such as values of the input or output at various times in the past. If the number of state variables necessary to describe future output is finite, the system is lumped; if it is infinite,...
572. ...memory in a system. Future output of a system with memory depends on future input and a number of state variables, such as values of the input or output at various times in the past. If the number of **state** variables necessary to describe future output is finite, the system is lumped; if it is infinite, the system is distributed. Finally, systems may be characterized by certain properties which facilita...
573. ...s for MCD measurements, as the presence of metals with degenerate energy levels leads to strong MCD signals. In the case of ferric heme proteins, MCD is capable of determining both oxidation and spin **state** to a remarkably exquisite degree. In regular proteins, MCD is capable of stoichiometrically measuring the tryptophan content of proteins, assuming there are no other competing absorbers in the spectr...
574. ...s, which generally can not be obtained in optical absorption spectroscopy owing to the weak extinction coefficients and are often electron paramagnetic resonance silent due to relatively large ground-**state** sublevel splittings and fast relaxation times. Consider a system of localized, non-interacting absorbing centers. Based on the semi-classical radiation absorption theory within the electric dipole ap...
575. ...aries with field. It is frequently useful to compare this value to the absorption coefficient in the absence of an applied field, often denoted  When the Zeeman effect is small compared to zero-field **state** separations, line width, and formula_43 and when the line shape is independent of the applied external field formula_44, first-order perturbation theory can be applied to separate formula_29 into thr...
576. ...nd path length formula_68.  These Faraday terms are the usual language in which MCD spectra are discussed. Their definitions from perturbation theory are  where formula_70 is the degeneracy of ground **state** formula_71, formula_72 labels states other than formula_71 or formula_74, formula_27 and formula_76 and formula_77 label the levels within states formula_71 and formula_74 and formula_72 (respectivel...
577. ...than formula_71 or formula_74, formula_27 and formula_76 and formula_77 label the levels within states formula_71 and formula_74 and formula_72 (respectively), formula_81 is the energy of unperturbed **state** formula_82, formula_83 is the formula_10 angular momentum operator, formula_85 is the formula_10 spin operator, and formula_87 indicates the real part of the expression.  The equations in the previou...
578. ...vative shape in the spectrum. This intensity mechanism is generally independent of sample temperature. The formula_47 term is due to the field-induced mixing of states. Energetic proximity of a third **state** formula_93 to either the ground state formula_94 or excited state formula_95 gives appreciable Zeeman coupling in the presence of an applied external field. As the strength of the magnetic field incr...
579. ...ensity mechanism is generally independent of sample temperature. The formula_47 term is due to the field-induced mixing of states. Energetic proximity of a third state formula_93 to either the ground **state** formula_94 or excited state formula_95 gives appreciable Zeeman coupling in the presence of an applied external field. As the strength of the magnetic field increases, the amount of mixing increases...
580. ...y independent of sample temperature. The formula_47 term is due to the field-induced mixing of states. Energetic proximity of a third state formula_93 to either the ground state formula_94 or excited **state** formula_95 gives appreciable Zeeman coupling in the presence of an applied external field. As the strength of the magnetic field increases, the amount of mixing increases to give growth of an absorpt...
581. ...ependent. Temperature dependence of formula_47 term intensity can sometimes be observed when formula_93 is particularly low-lying in energy.  The formula_48 term requires the degeneracy of the ground **state**, often encountered for paramagnetic samples. This happens due to a change in the Boltzmann population of the magnetic sublevels, which is dependent on the degree of field-induced splitting of the sub...
582. ...contributions of A, B and C terms to the MCD spectrum are proportional to the inverse line width, energy splitting, and temperature: where formula_106 is line width and formula_107 is the zero-field **state** separation. For typical values of formula_106 = 1000 cm, formula_107 = 10,000 cm and formula_43 = 6 cm (at 10 K), the three terms make relative contributions 1:0.1:150. So, at low temperature the for...
583. ...nd to metal charge transfer (LMCT) transitions. They all have lower energy than the lowest-energy intense band for the Fe(II) complex Fe(CN) found at 46000 cm. The red shift with increasing oxidation **state** of the metal is characteristic of LMCT bands. Additionally, only A terms, which are temperature independent, should be involved in MCD structure for closed-shell species.  These features can be expla...
584. ...tic of LMCT bands. Additionally, only A terms, which are temperature independent, should be involved in MCD structure for closed-shell species.  These features can be explained as follows. The ground **state** of the anion is T, which derives from the electronic configuration (t). So, there would be an unpaired electron in the d orbital of Fe From that, the three bands can be assigned to the transitions t→...
585. ...ling in metal to ligand charge transfer (MLCT) transitions. As shown in figure 1, the molecular orbital diagram of [(n-CH)N]Pt(CN) reveals MLCT into the antibonding π* orbitals of cyanide. The ground **state** is diamagnetic (thereby eliminating any C-terms) and the LUMO is the a. The dipole-allowed MLCT transitions are a-a and e-a. Another transition, b-a, is a weak (orbitally forbidden singlet) but can s...
586. ...ed to around 1.6 to 2 T. When the current in the coil is turned off, in the magnetically soft materials that are nearly always used as cores, most of the domains lose alignment and return to a random **state** and the field disappears. However, some of the alignment persists, because the domains have difficulty turning their direction of magnetization, leaving the core magnetized as a weak permanent magnet...
587. ...which occur in electromagnets which must be provided for in their design. These generally become more significant in larger electromagnets. The only power consumed in a DC electromagnet under steady-**state** conditions is due to the resistance of the windings, and is dissipated as heat. Some large electromagnets require water cooling systems in the windings to carry off the waste heat. Since the magnetic...
588. ...y providing a path for the current to recirculate through the winding until the energy is dissipated as heat. The diode is connected across the winding, oriented so it is reverse-biased during steady **state** operation and does not conduct. When the supply voltage is removed, the voltage spike forward-biases the diode and the reactive current continues to flow through the winding, through the diode, and b...
589. ...tical studies of breakdown of electrical insulator properties. Later, his work led to the Bell Labs implementation of the effect in form of an electronic device, the Zener diode. A conventional solid-**state** diode allows significant current if it is reverse-biased above its reverse breakdown voltage. When the reverse bias breakdown voltage is exceeded, a conventional diode will conduct a high current due...
590. ...rons are in the valence band, and hence the photon must have enough energy to excite the electron across the entire bandgap. Extrinsic devices have impurities, also called dopants, added whose ground **state** energy is closer to the conduction band; since the electrons do not have as far to jump, lower energy photons (that is, longer wavelengths and lower frequencies) are sufficient to trigger the device....
591. ...also refers to him as a fatherly figure. The character is often depicted as a sorcerer with vast godly-level magical abilities, reality alteration powers, and immortality at his peak. In a diminished **state**, he is only capable of utilizing thunderbolts offensively and advising the Shazam/Marvel Family. The character's most reoccurring power is the Powers of Shazam, a set of superpowers acquired from asp...
592. ...Woman and safely returns Steve Trevor to his home country. Coming to America for the first time, Wonder Woman comes upon a wailing army nurse who happens to look identical to her. Inquiring about her **state**, she finds that the nurse wanted to leave for South America with her fiancé but was unable due to shortage of money. As Wonder Woman needed a job and a valid identity to look after Steve (who was adm...
593. ...p producer of copper with at least one-third of the world share followed by the United States, Indonesia and Peru. Copper can also be recovered through the in-situ leach process. Several sites in the **state** of Arizona are considered prime candidates for this method. The amount of copper in use is increasing and the quantity available is barely sufficient to allow all countries to reach developed world l...
594. ...ulfuric acid, ammonia, ferric chloride. Biological methods are also used. A significant source of copper is from recycling. Recycling is facilitated because copper is usually deployed in its metallic **state**. In 2001, a typical automobile contained 20–30 kg of copper. Recycling usually begins with some melting process using a blast furnace. A potential source of copper is polymetallic nodules, which have...
595. ...sing a blast furnace. A potential source of copper is polymetallic nodules, which have an estimated concentration 1.3%. Like aluminium, copper is recyclable without any loss of quality, both from raw **state** and from manufactured products. In volume, copper is the third most recycled metal after iron and aluminium. An estimated 80% of all copper ever mined is still in use today. According to the Internat...
596. ...rst public room lit by electric light during a lecture by Swan on 20 October 1880. In 1881 he founded his own company, The Swan Electric Light Company, and started commercial production. The Savoy, a **state**-of-the-art theatre in the City of Westminster, London, was the first public building in the world lit entirely by electricity. Swan supplied about 1,200 incandescent lamps, powered by an generator on...
597. ...the Arctic North of Russia was named for its mining operations for these ores. Apatite is an ore mineral at the Hoidas Lake rare-earth project. The standard enthalpies of formation in the crystalline **state** of hydroxyapatite, chlorapatite and a preliminary value for bromapatite, have been determined by reaction-solution calorimetry. Speculations on the existence of a possible fifth member of the calcium...
598. ...olids is always elastically anisotropic, with BrAp exhibiting a markedly different behavior from those displayed by HOAp and ClAp. High-pressure p-V data were fitted to the Parsafar-Mason equation of **state** with an accuracy better than 1%. The monoclinic solid phases Ca(PO)(X) (X= OH, Cl) and the molten hydroxyapatite compound have also been studied by molecular dynamics. Moon rocks collected by astrona...
599. ...y but with lower thrust, such as outer-planet probes, a combination of microfission and fusion might be preferred because it would reduce the total fuel mass. The concept was invented at Pennsylvania **State** University before 1992. Since then, several groups have studied antimatter-catalyzed micro fission/fusion engines in the lab. Work has been performed at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory on anti...
600. ...e millisecond timescales that previously were achievable. Total world-wide production of anti-protons in a period of a year is in the range of nanograms. The anti-matter trap (Mark 1 version) at Penn **State** University has the capacity for the storage of 10 billion for a period of approximately 168 hours. Project Icarus has given the estimated potential cost of production of 1 milligram of anti-proton as...
601. ...s. They play an important role in the operation of semiconductor devices such as transistors, diodes (including light-emitting diodes) and integrated circuits. If an electron is excited into a higher **state** it leaves a hole in its old state. This meaning is used in Auger electron spectroscopy (and other x-ray techniques), in computational chemistry, and to explain the low electron-electron scattering-ra...
602. ...the operation of semiconductor devices such as transistors, diodes (including light-emitting diodes) and integrated circuits. If an electron is excited into a higher state it leaves a hole in its old **state**. This meaning is used in Auger electron spectroscopy (and other x-ray techniques), in computational chemistry, and to explain the low electron-electron scattering-rate in crystals (metals and semicon...
603. ...y negative at the top of a band. The negative mass is an unintuitive concept, and in these situations, a more familiar picture is found by considering a positive charge with a positive mass. In solid-**state** physics, an electron hole (usually referred to simply as a hole) is the absence of an electron from a full valence band. A hole is essentially a way to conceptualize the interactions of the electrons...
604. ...s, who analyzed the Hall effect using Bloch's theorem, and demonstrated that a nearly full and a nearly empty Brillouin zones give the opposite Hall voltages. The concept of an electron hole in solid-**state** physics predates the concept of a hole in Dirac equation, but there is no evidence that it would have influenced Dirac's thinking. Hole conduction in a valence band can be explained by the following...
605. .... If the seats themselves were positively charged, then only the vacant seat would be positive. This is a very simple model of how hole conduction works. Instead of analyzing the movement of an empty **state** in the valence band as the movement of many separate electrons, a single equivalent imaginary particle called a "hole" is considered. In an applied electric field, the electrons move in one direction...
606. ...the top of the band have negative effective mass, and those near the bottom of the band have positive effective mass, so the net motion is exactly zero. If an otherwise-almost-full valence band has a **state** "without" an electron in it, we say that this state is occupied by a hole. There is a mathematical shortcut for calculating the current due to every electron in the whole valence band: Start with zer...
607. ...d those near the bottom of the band have positive effective mass, so the net motion is exactly zero. If an otherwise-almost-full valence band has a state "without" an electron in it, we say that this **state** is occupied by a hole. There is a mathematical shortcut for calculating the current due to every electron in the whole valence band: Start with zero current (the total if the band were full), and "su...
608. ...ng the current due to every electron in the whole valence band: Start with zero current (the total if the band were full), and "subtract" the current due to the electrons that "would" be in each hole **state** if it wasn't a hole. Since "subtracting" the current caused by a "negative" charge in motion is the same as "adding" the current caused by a "positive" charge moving on the same path, the mathematica...
609. ..." the current caused by a "negative" charge in motion is the same as "adding" the current caused by a "positive" charge moving on the same path, the mathematical shortcut is to pretend that each hole **state** is carrying a positive charge, while ignoring every other electron state in the valence band. This fact follows from the discussion and definition above. This is an example where the auditorium analo...
610. ...ing" the current caused by a "positive" charge moving on the same path, the mathematical shortcut is to pretend that each hole state is carrying a positive charge, while ignoring every other electron **state** in the valence band. This fact follows from the discussion and definition above. This is an example where the auditorium analogy above is misleading. When a person moves left in a full auditorium, an...
611. ...include p–n diodes, bipolar transistors, and CMOS logic. An alternate meaning for the term electron hole is used in computational chemistry. In coupled cluster methods, the ground (or lowest energy) **state** of a molecule is interpreted as the "vacuum state"—conceptually, in this state, there are no electrons. In this scheme, the absence of an electron from a normally filled state is called a "hole" and...
612. ...logic. An alternate meaning for the term electron hole is used in computational chemistry. In coupled cluster methods, the ground (or lowest energy) state of a molecule is interpreted as the "vacuum **state**"—conceptually, in this state, there are no electrons. In this scheme, the absence of an electron from a normally filled state is called a "hole" and is treated as a particle, and the presence of an e...
613. ...for the term electron hole is used in computational chemistry. In coupled cluster methods, the ground (or lowest energy) state of a molecule is interpreted as the "vacuum state"—conceptually, in this **state**, there are no electrons. In this scheme, the absence of an electron from a normally filled state is called a "hole" and is treated as a particle, and the presence of an electron in a normally empty s...
614. ...ound (or lowest energy) state of a molecule is interpreted as the "vacuum state"—conceptually, in this state, there are no electrons. In this scheme, the absence of an electron from a normally filled **state** is called a "hole" and is treated as a particle, and the presence of an electron in a normally empty state is simply called an "electron". This terminology is almost identical to that used in solid-s...
615. ...e, there are no electrons. In this scheme, the absence of an electron from a normally filled state is called a "hole" and is treated as a particle, and the presence of an electron in a normally empty **state** is simply called an "electron". This terminology is almost identical to that used in solid-state physics. Fluorescent lamp A fluorescent lamp, or fluorescent tube, is a low-pressure mercury-vapor gas...
616. ...e is called a "hole" and is treated as a particle, and the presence of an electron in a normally empty state is simply called an "electron". This terminology is almost identical to that used in solid-**state** physics. Fluorescent lamp A fluorescent lamp, or fluorescent tube, is a low-pressure mercury-vapor gas-discharge lamp that uses fluorescence to produce visible light. An electric current in the gas e...
617. ...alophosphate-based phosphors dominated. The fundamental mechanism for the conversion of electrical energy to light is the emission of a photon when an electron in a mercury atom falls from an excited **state** into a lower energy level. Electrons flowing in the arc collide with the mercury atoms. If the incident electron has enough kinetic energy, it transfers energy to the atom's outer electron, causing t...
618. ...ctively increases the distance that electrons travel through the tube, which allows an electron a greater chance of interacting with a mercury atom. Additionally, argon atoms, excited to a metastable **state** by the impact of an electron, can impart energy to a mercury atom and ionize it, described as the Penning effect. This lowers the breakdown and operating voltage of the lamp, compared to other possib...
619. ...ffect" between the video frame rate and the fluctuations in intensity of the fluorescent lamp. Fluorescent lamps with electronic ballasts do not flicker, since above about 5 kHz, the excited electron **state** half-life is longer than a half cycle, and light production becomes continuous. Operating frequencies of electronic ballasts are selected to avoid interference with infrared remote controls. Poor qua...
620. ...gauges are a collection of keys of various thicknesses which match the desired gaps and the gap is adjusted until the key fits snugly. With current engine technology, universally incorporating solid **state** ignition systems and computerized fuel injection, the gaps used are larger on average than in the era of carburetors and breaker point distributors, to the extent that spark plug gauges from that era...
621. ...aves are not transmitted through the outer core. Although having a composition similar to Earth's solid inner core, the outer core remains liquid as there is not enough pressure to keep it in a solid **state**. Seismic inversions of body waves and normal modes constrain the radius of the outer core to be 3483 km with an uncertainty of 5 km, while that of the inner core is 1220±10 km. Estimates for the temp...
622. ...requencies between 2 kHz and 5 MHz. These include AM radio signals and ordinary electronic equipment that might be found in businesses or private homes. Hysteresis Hysteresis is the dependence of the **state** of a system on its history. For example, a magnet may have more than one possible magnetic moment in a given magnetic field, depending on how the field changed in the past. Plots of a single componen...
623. ...ochrome cells and memory effect devices using passive matrix addressing. Shortcuts are made between adjacent components (see crosstalk) and the hysteresis helps to keep the components in a particular **state** while the other components change states. Thus, all rows can be addressed at the same time instead of individually. In the field of audio electronics, a noise gate often implements hysteresis intenti...
624. ...lose to its threshold are applied. A hysteresis is sometimes intentionally added to computer algorithms. The field of user interface design has borrowed the term hysteresis to refer to times when the **state** of the user interface intentionally lags behind the apparent user input. For example, a menu that was drawn in response to a mouse-over event may remain on-screen for a brief moment after the mouse h...
625. ...eferred to as the tilting base method. Once a drop is dispensed on the surface with the surface level, the surface is then tilted from 0° to 90°. As the drop is tilted, the downhill side will be in a **state** of imminent wetting while the uphill side will be in a state of imminent dewetting. As the tilt increases the downhill contact angle will increase and represents the advancing contact angle while the...
626. ...ed on the surface with the surface level, the surface is then tilted from 0° to 90°. As the drop is tilted, the downhill side will be in a state of imminent wetting while the uphill side will be in a **state** of imminent dewetting. As the tilt increases the downhill contact angle will increase and represents the advancing contact angle while the uphill side will decrease; this is the receding contact angl...
627. ...ization is the electrical dipole moment (either C·m or C·m). The mechanism, an organization of the polarization into domains, is similar to that of magnetic hysteresis. Hysteresis manifests itself in **state** transitions when melting temperature and freezing temperature do not agree. For example, agar melts at and solidifies from . This is to say that once agar is melted at 85 °C, it retains a liquid stat...
628. ...tate transitions when melting temperature and freezing temperature do not agree. For example, agar melts at and solidifies from . This is to say that once agar is melted at 85 °C, it retains a liquid **state** until cooled to 40 °C. Therefore, from the temperatures of 40 to 85 °C, agar can be either solid or liquid, depending on which state it was before. Hysteresis in cell biology often follows bistable s...
629. ...s is to say that once agar is melted at 85 °C, it retains a liquid state until cooled to 40 °C. Therefore, from the temperatures of 40 to 85 °C, agar can be either solid or liquid, depending on which **state** it was before. Hysteresis in cell biology often follows bistable systems where the same input state can lead to two different, stable outputs. Where bistability can lead to digital, switch-like outpu...
630. ...efore, from the temperatures of 40 to 85 °C, agar can be either solid or liquid, depending on which state it was before. Hysteresis in cell biology often follows bistable systems where the same input **state** can lead to two different, stable outputs. Where bistability can lead to digital, switch-like outputs from the continuous inputs of chemical concentrations and activities, hysteresis makes these syst...
631. ...hemical concentrations and activities, hysteresis makes these systems more resistant to noise. These systems are often characterized by higher values of the input required to switch into a particular **state** as compared to the input required to stay in the state, allowing for a transition that is not continuously reversible, and thus less susceptible to noise.  Irreversible Hysteresis In the case of mito...
632. ...these systems more resistant to noise. These systems are often characterized by higher values of the input required to switch into a particular state as compared to the input required to stay in the **state**, allowing for a transition that is not continuously reversible, and thus less susceptible to noise.  Irreversible Hysteresis In the case of mitosis, irreversibility is essential to maintain the overa...
633. ...tion, active CDK1 promotes the activation of more CDK1 molecules by inhibiting Wee1 (an inhibitor) and activating Cdc25 (a phosphatase that activates CDK1). These loops lock the cell into its current **state** and amplifying the activation of CDK1. Positive feedback also serves to create a bistable system where CDK1 is either fully inactivated or fully activated. Hysteresis prevents the cell from oscillati...
634. ...ochemical system that is under the control of reversible hysteresis has both forward and reverse trajectories. The system generally requires a higher [input] to proceed forward into the next bistable **state** then to exit from that stage. For example, cells undergoing cell division exhibit reversible hysteresis in that it takes a higher concentration of cyclins to switch them from G2 phase into mitosis th...
635. ...the cell out of mitosis so easily. History and Memory In systems with bistability, the same input level can correspond to two distinct stable states (e.g., "low output" and "high output"). The actual **state** of the system depends on its history — whether the input level was increasing (forward trajectory) or decreasing (backward trajectory). Thus, it is difficult to determine which state a cell is in if...
636. ...ut"). The actual state of the system depends on its history — whether the input level was increasing (forward trajectory) or decreasing (backward trajectory). Thus, it is difficult to determine which **state** a cell is in if given only a bistability curve. The cell’s ability to "remember" its prior state ensures stability and prevents it from switching states unnecessarily due to minor fluctuations in inp...
637. ...ing (forward trajectory) or decreasing (backward trajectory). Thus, it is difficult to determine which state a cell is in if given only a bistability curve. The cell’s ability to "remember" its prior **state** ensures stability and prevents it from switching states unnecessarily due to minor fluctuations in input. This memory is often maintained through molecular feedback loops, such as positive feedback i...
638. ...f history-dependent behavior in the system. Concentrations between 24 and 32 nM cyclin B demonstrated bistability, where the system could exist in either interphase or mitosis, depending on its prior **state** (history). Though, the cell cycle isn’t completely irreversible, the difference in thresholds is enough for growth and survival of the cells. Hysteric thresholds in biological systems are not definit...
639. ...on of Far1, which, in turn, determines the delay in cell-cycle reentry. Previous pulse experiments demonstrated that after exposure to high pheromone concentrations, cells enter a stabilized arrested **state** where reentry thresholds are elevated due to increased Far1-dependent inhibition of CDK activity. Even when pheromone levels drop to concentrations that would allow naive cells to reenter the cell cy...
640. ...cle, pre-exposed cells take longer to resume proliferation. This delay reflects the history-dependent nature of hysteresis, where past exposure to high pheromone concentrations influences the current **state**. Hysteresis ensures that cells make robust and irreversible decisions about mating and proliferation in response to pheromone signals. It allows cells to "remember" high pheromone exposure, and this...
641. ...iousness, interfaces with neuroscience, although the complexity of the central nervous system is a challenge to its study (that is, its operation resists easy reduction). Context-dependent memory and **state**-dependent memory show hysteretic aspects of neurocognition. Lung hysteresis is evident when observing the compliance of a lung on inspiration versus expiration. The difference in compliance (Δvolume/...
642. ...Néel temperature. Unlike ferromagnetism, anti-ferromagnetic interactions can lead to multiple optimal states (ground states—states of minimal energy). In one dimension, the anti-ferromagnetic ground **state** is an alternating series of spins: up, down, up, down, etc. Yet in two dimensions, multiple ground states can occur. Consider an equilateral triangle with three spins, one on each vertex. If each spi...
643. ...up or are all down. In any of the other six states, there will be two favorable interactions and one unfavorable one. This illustrates frustration: the inability of the system to find a single ground **state**. This type of magnetic behavior has been found in minerals that have a crystal stacking structure such as a Kagome lattice or hexagonal lattice. Synthetic antiferromagnets (often abbreviated by SAF)...
644. ...ned that the average correlation of neighbour spins is antiferromagnetic. This type of magnetism is sometimes called speromagnetism. Spin glass In condensed matter physics, a spin glass is a magnetic **state** characterized by randomness, besides cooperative behavior in freezing of spins at a temperature called "freezing temperature" "T". In ferromagnetic solids, component atoms' magnetic spins all align i...
645. ..."freezing temperature" "T". In ferromagnetic solids, component atoms' magnetic spins all align in the same direction. Spin glass when contrasted with a ferromagnet is defined as "disordered" magnetic **state** in which spins are aligned randomly or without a regular pattern and the couplings too are random. A spin glass should not be confused with a "spin-on glass". The latter is a thin film, usually based...
646. ...d ferro- as well as antiferromagnetic couplings. It corresponds to a mean-field approximation of spin glasses describing the slow dynamics of the magnetization and the complex non-ergodic equilibrium **state**. Unlike the Edwards–Anderson (EA) model, in the system though only two-spin interactions are considered, the range of each interaction can be potentially infinite (of the order of the size of the lat...
647. ...2. In 1979, J.R.L. de Almeida and David Thouless found that, as in the case of the Ising model, the mean-field solution to the SK model becomes unstable when under low-temperature, low-magnetic field **state**. The stability region on the phase diagram of the SK model is determined by two dimensionless parameters formula_33. Its phase diagram has two parts, divided by the "de Almeida-Thouless curve", The c...
648. ...formula_42 have similar meanings as in the EA model. The formula_43 limit of this model is known as the random energy model. In this limit, the probability of the spin glass existing in a particular **state** depends only on the energy of that state and not on the individual spin configurations in it. A Gaussian distribution of magnetic bonds across the lattice is assumed usually to solve this model. Any...
649. ...he EA model. The formula_43 limit of this model is known as the random energy model. In this limit, the probability of the spin glass existing in a particular state depends only on the energy of that **state** and not on the individual spin configurations in it. A Gaussian distribution of magnetic bonds across the lattice is assumed usually to solve this model. Any other distribution is expected to give th...
650. ...eplica symmetry as well as 1-Replica Symmetry Breaking. A thermodynamic system is ergodic when, given any (equilibrium) instance of the system, it eventually visits every other possible (equilibrium) **state** (of the same energy). One characteristic of spin glass systems is that, below the freezing temperature formula_52, instances are trapped in a "non-ergodic" set of states: the system may fluctuate bet...
651. ..., with tall energy barriers between minima. The participation ratio counts the number of states that are accessible from a given instance, that is, the number of states that participate in the ground **state**. The ergodic aspect of spin glass was instrumental in the awarding of half the 2021 Nobel Prize in Physics to Giorgio Parisi. For physical systems, such as dilute manganese in copper, the freezing te...
652. ...graphic pH sensors, which allow pH measurement colorimetrically, making use of the variety of pH indicators that are available. Additionally, there are commercially available pH meters based on solid **state** electrodes, rather than conventional glass electrodes. The concept of pH was defined in 1909 by S. P. L. Sørensen, and electrodes were used for pH measurement in the 1920s. In October 1934, Arnold Or...
653. ...h the Department of Energy's Tribal Energy program to deliver alternative renewable power to remote Navajo communities, spearheaded by senior engineer Sandra Begay. On February 13, 2007, a New Mexico **State** Court found Sandia Corporation liable for $4.7 million in damages for the firing of a former network security analyst, Shawn Carpenter, who had reported to his supervisors that hundreds of military i...
654. ...n actively transported back out of the plasma membrane. Potassium channels are then activated, and there is an outward current of potassium ions, returning the electrochemical gradient to the resting **state**. After an action potential has occurred, there is a transient negative shift, called the afterhyperpolarization. In animal cells, there are two primary types of action potentials. One type is generat...
655. ...s: Thus, a voltage-gated ion channel tends to be open for some values of the membrane potential, and closed for others. In most cases, however, the relationship between membrane potential and channel **state** is probabilistic and involves a time delay. Ion channels switch between conformations at unpredictable times: The membrane potential determines the rate of transitions and the probability per unit ti...
656. ...unit time of each type of transition. Voltage-gated ion channels are capable of producing action potentials because they can give rise to positive feedback loops: The membrane potential controls the **state** of the ion channels, but the state of the ion channels controls the membrane potential. Thus, in some situations, a rise in the membrane potential can cause ion channels to open, thereby causing a fu...
657. ...on. Voltage-gated ion channels are capable of producing action potentials because they can give rise to positive feedback loops: The membrane potential controls the state of the ion channels, but the **state** of the ion channels controls the membrane potential. Thus, in some situations, a rise in the membrane potential can cause ion channels to open, thereby causing a further rise in the membrane potentia...
658. ...V" stands for "voltage".) An "Na" channel has three possible states, known as "deactivated", "activated", and "inactivated". The channel is permeable only to sodium ions when it is in the "activated" **state**. When the membrane potential is low, the channel spends most of its time in the "deactivated" (closed) state. If the membrane potential is raised above a certain level, the channel shows increased pr...
659. ..."inactivated". The channel is permeable only to sodium ions when it is in the "activated" state. When the membrane potential is low, the channel spends most of its time in the "deactivated" (closed) **state**. If the membrane potential is raised above a certain level, the channel shows increased probability of transitioning to the "activated" (open) state. The higher the membrane potential the greater the...
660. ...nds most of its time in the "deactivated" (closed) state. If the membrane potential is raised above a certain level, the channel shows increased probability of transitioning to the "activated" (open) **state**. The higher the membrane potential the greater the probability of activation. Once a channel has activated, it will eventually transition to the "inactivated" (closed) state. It tends then to stay in...
661. ...to the "activated" (open) state. The higher the membrane potential the greater the probability of activation. Once a channel has activated, it will eventually transition to the "inactivated" (closed) **state**. It tends then to stay inactivated for some time, but, if the membrane potential becomes low again, the channel will eventually transition back to the "deactivated" state. During an action potential,...
662. ...o the "inactivated" (closed) state. It tends then to stay inactivated for some time, but, if the membrane potential becomes low again, the channel will eventually transition back to the "deactivated" **state**. During an action potential, most channels of this type go through a cycle "deactivated"→"activated"→"inactivated"→"deactivated". This is only the population average behavior, however – an individual...
663. ...is only the population average behavior, however – an individual channel can in principle make any transition at any time. However, the likelihood of a channel's transitioning from the "inactivated" **state** directly to the "activated" state is very low: A channel in the "inactivated" state is refractory until it has transitioned back to the "deactivated" state. The outcome of all this is that the kineti...
664. ...havior, however – an individual channel can in principle make any transition at any time. However, the likelihood of a channel's transitioning from the "inactivated" state directly to the "activated" **state** is very low: A channel in the "inactivated" state is refractory until it has transitioned back to the "deactivated" state. The outcome of all this is that the kinetics of the "Na" channels are govern...
665. ...nciple make any transition at any time. However, the likelihood of a channel's transitioning from the "inactivated" state directly to the "activated" state is very low: A channel in the "inactivated" **state** is refractory until it has transitioned back to the "deactivated" state. The outcome of all this is that the kinetics of the "Na" channels are governed by a transition matrix whose rates are voltage-...
666. ...nnel's transitioning from the "inactivated" state directly to the "activated" state is very low: A channel in the "inactivated" state is refractory until it has transitioned back to the "deactivated" **state**. The outcome of all this is that the kinetics of the "Na" channels are governed by a transition matrix whose rates are voltage-dependent in a complicated way. Since these channels themselves play a m...
667. ...V, but it depends on the recent activity of the axon. A cell that has just fired an action potential cannot fire another one immediately, since the Na channels have not recovered from the inactivated **state**. The period during which no new action potential can be fired is called the "absolute refractory period". At longer times, after some but not all of the ion channels have recovered, the axon can be s...
668. ...undershoot or hyperpolarization, termed an afterhyperpolarization, that persists until the membrane potassium permeability returns to its usual value, restoring the membrane potential to the resting **state**. Each action potential is followed by a refractory period, which can be divided into an "absolute refractory period", during which it is impossible to evoke another action potential, and then a "rela...
669. ...possible to evoke another action potential, and then a "relative refractory period", during which a stronger-than-usual stimulus is required. These two refractory periods are caused by changes in the **state** of sodium and potassium channel molecules. When closing after an action potential, sodium channels enter an "inactivated" state, in which they cannot be made to open regardless of the membrane potent...
670. ...is required. These two refractory periods are caused by changes in the state of sodium and potassium channel molecules. When closing after an action potential, sodium channels enter an "inactivated" **state**, in which they cannot be made to open regardless of the membrane potential—this gives rise to the absolute refractory period. Even after a sufficient number of sodium channels have transitioned back...
671. ...annot be made to open regardless of the membrane potential—this gives rise to the absolute refractory period. Even after a sufficient number of sodium channels have transitioned back to their resting **state**, it frequently happens that a fraction of potassium channels remains open, making it difficult for the membrane potential to depolarize, and thereby giving rise to the relative refractory period. Bec...
672. ...ain. At the molecular level, this "absolute refractory period" corresponds to the time required for the voltage-activated sodium channels to recover from inactivation, i.e., to return to their closed **state**. There are many types of voltage-activated potassium channels in neurons. Some of them inactivate fast (A-type currents) and some of them inactivate slowly or not inactivate at all; this variability...
673. ...nels inactivate within several milliseconds during strong depolarization, thus making following depolarization impossible until a substantial fraction of sodium channels have returned to their closed **state**. Although it limits the frequency of firing, the absolute refractory period ensures that the action potential moves in only one direction along an axon. The currents flowing in due to an action poten...
674. ...simple example is a concentration cell), and the free-energy per mole is exactly equal to the electrochemical potential difference between the two regions. It is common in electrochemistry and solid-**state** physics to discuss both the chemical potential and the electrochemical potential of the electrons. However, in the two fields, the definitions of these two terms are sometimes swapped. In electrochem...
675. ...ition constant across a device in equilibrium, whereas the "chemical potential" of electrons is equal to the electrochemical potential minus the local electric potential energy per electron. In solid-**state** physics, the definitions are normally compatible with this, but occasionally the definitions are swapped. This article uses the electrochemistry definitions. In generic terms, electrochemical potenti...
676. ...y the definitions are swapped. This article uses the electrochemistry definitions. In generic terms, electrochemical potential is the mechanical work done in bringing 1 mole of an ion from a standard **state** to a specified concentration and electrical potential. According to the IUPAC definition, it is the partial molar Gibbs energy of the substance at the specified electric potential, where the substanc...
677. ...nterferometry makes use of the principle of superposition to combine waves in a way that will cause the result of their combination to have some meaningful property that is diagnostic of the original **state** of the waves. This works because when two waves with the same frequency combine, the resulting intensity pattern is determined by the phase difference between the two waves—waves that are in phase wi...
678. ...strange behavior of fermions that is at the basis of the Pauli exclusion principle: Unlike macroscopic objects, when fermions are rotated by 360° about any axis, they do not return to their original **state**, but develop a minus sign in their wave function. In other words, a fermion needs to be rotated 720° before returning to its original state. Atom interferometry techniques are reaching sufficient pre...
679. ...y 360° about any axis, they do not return to their original state, but develop a minus sign in their wave function. In other words, a fermion needs to be rotated 720° before returning to its original **state**. Atom interferometry techniques are reaching sufficient precision to allow laboratory-scale tests of general relativity. Interferometers are used in atmospheric physics for high-precision measurement...
680. ...issuance of the patent for this method. Double- and multi- exposure holography is one of three methods used to create holographic interferograms. A first exposure records the object in an unstressed **state**. Subsequent exposures on the same photographic plate are made while the object is subjected to some stress. The composite image depicts the difference between the stressed and unstressed states. Real...
681. ...asure the sizes of subcellular objects, including cell nuclei. This allows interferometry depth measurements to be combined with density measurements. Various correlations have been found between the **state** of tissue health and the measurements of subcellular objects. For example, it has been found that as tissue changes from normal to cancerous, the average cell nuclei size increases. Phase-contrast X-...
682. ...h plasticity; short clays are less cohesive and have lower plasticity. In soil mechanics, plasticity is determined by measuring the increase in content of water required to change a clay from a solid **state** bordering on the plastic, to a plastic state bordering on the liquid, though the term is also used less formally to describe the ease with which a clay may be worked. Clays used for porcelain are gen...
683. ...nd have lower plasticity. In soil mechanics, plasticity is determined by measuring the increase in content of water required to change a clay from a solid state bordering on the plastic, to a plastic **state** bordering on the liquid, though the term is also used less formally to describe the ease with which a clay may be worked. Clays used for porcelain are generally of lower plasticity than many other po...
684. ...hinese techniques and composition used to manufacture porcelain were not yet fully understood. Countless experiments to produce porcelain had unpredictable results and met with failure. In the German **state** of Saxony, the search concluded in 1708 when Ehrenfried Walther von Tschirnhaus produced a hard, white, translucent type of porcelain specimen with a combination of ingredients, including kaolin and...
685. ...porcelain, Dulyovo (1832), Kuznetsovsky porcelain, Popovsky porcelain, and Gzhel. During the twentieth century, under Soviet governments, ceramics continued to be a popular artform, supported by the **state**, with an increasingly propagandist role. One artist, who worked at the Baranovsky Porcelain Factory and at the Experimental Ceramic and Artistic Plant in Kyiv, was Oksana Zhnikrup, whose porcelain fi...
686. ...many and "frita" in Spain. In France they were known as "pâte tendre" and in England as "soft-paste". They appear to have been given this name because they do not easily retain their shape in the wet **state**, or because they tend to slump in the kiln under high temperature, or because the body and the glaze can be easily scratched. Experiments at Rouen produced the earliest soft-paste in France, but the...
687. ...would interact with the Earth's magnetic field to produce cyclotron radiation in the form of an electromagnetic pulse (EMP). This phenomenon is of concern to the military as the EMP may damage solid **state** electronic equipment. Synchrotron radiation Synchrotron radiation (also known as magnetobremsstrahlung) is the electromagnetic radiation emitted when relativistic charged particles are subject to an...
688. ...ail track has been mass-produced in China for between US$4.6 and US$30.8 million per kilometer, mostly in rural areas. (See High-speed rail in China). In 2008 Transrapid Australia quoted the Victoria **State** Government A$34 million per kilometer for dual track. This assumed 50% of the track was at grade and 50% was elevated. In comparison, the Regional Rail Link built in Victoria cost around A$5 billion,...
689. ...e ability of the Transrapid system to handle tighter turns and steeper gradients could heavily influence a cost comparison for a particular project. In 2008, Transrapid Australia quoted the Victorian **State** Government between A$16.5 million (commuter) and A$20 million (luxury) per trains section or carriage. Due to the width of the Transrapid carriages they have a floor area of about . This works out at...
690. ...the lines Bern–Zürich, Lausanne–Geneva as well as Zürich–Winterthur.  Transrapid is one of a number of companies seeking to build a high speed transit system parallel to the I-70 Interstate in the US **state** of Colorado. Submissions put forward say that maglev offers significantly better performance than rail given the harsh climate and terrain. No technology has been preferred as of November 2013, thoug...
691. ...by a third stirred some strong comments by various German officials and more diplomatic statements of concern from Transrapid officials. Deutsche Welle reported that the "China Daily" had quoted the **State** Council encouraging engineers to "learn and absorb foreign advanced technologies while making further innovations." The Chinese deny any technology plagiarism. The China Aviation Industry Corporation...
692. ...of thick aluminium foil bonded together. The manufacturing process begins with a film of molten polyethylene terephthalate (PET) being extruded onto a chill roll, which quenches it into the amorphous **state**. It is then biaxially oriented by drawing. The most common way of doing this is the sequential process, in which the film is first drawn in the machine direction using heated rollers and subsequently...
693. ...linear: Only nine types of element (memristor not included), five passive and four active, are required to model any electrical component or circuit. Each element is defined by a relation between the **state** variables of the network: current, formula_1; voltage, formula_2; charge, formula_3; and magnetic flux, formula_4. In reality, all circuit components are non-linear and can only be approximated as li...
694. ...ave a different standard voltage or frequency from the surrounding areas. Some city areas may use standards different from that of the surrounding countryside (e.g. in Libya). Regions in an effective **state** of anarchy may have no central electrical authority, with electric power provided by incompatible private sources. Many other combinations of voltage and utility frequency were formerly used, with fr...
695. ...carry slightly lower nameplate voltages. Power distribution system voltage is nearly sinusoidal in nature. Voltages are expressed as root mean square (RMS) voltage. Voltage tolerances are for steady-**state** operation. Momentary heavy loads, or switching operations in the power distribution network, may cause short-term deviations out of the tolerance band and storms and other unusual conditions may caus...
696. ...dulated) light. Rather than integrating the sine and cosine products, Regan fed the signals to a two-pen recorder via lowpass filters. This allowed him to demonstrate that the brain attained a steady-**state** regime in which the amplitude and phase of the harmonics (frequency components) of the response were approximately constant over time. By analogy with the steady-state response of a resonant circuit...
697. ...hat the brain attained a steady-state regime in which the amplitude and phase of the harmonics (frequency components) of the response were approximately constant over time. By analogy with the steady-**state** response of a resonant circuit that follows the initial transient response he defined an idealized steady-state evoked potential (SSEP) as a form of response to repetitive sensory stimulation in whic...
698. ...ents) of the response were approximately constant over time. By analogy with the steady-state response of a resonant circuit that follows the initial transient response he defined an idealized steady-**state** evoked potential (SSEP) as a form of response to repetitive sensory stimulation in which the constituent frequency components of the response remain constant with time in both amplitude and phase. Al...
699. ...ent frequency components can be at the theoretical limit of spectral resolution up to at least a 500-second recording duration (0.002 Hz in this case). Repetitive sensory stimulation elicits a steady-**state** magnetic brain response that can be analysed in the same way as the SSEP. This technique allows several (e.g., four) SSEPs to be recorded simultaneously from any given location on the scalp. Differen...
700. ...rodynamics). In the case of the LS coupling, one can sum over all electrons in the atom: where formula_16 and formula_17 are the total spin momentum and spin of the atom, and averaging is done over a **state** with a given value of the total angular momentum. If the interaction term formula_18 is small (less than the fine structure), it can be treated as a perturbation; this is the Zeeman effect proper. In...
701. ...tic-field perturbation significantly exceeds the spin–orbit interaction, one can safely assume formula_57. This allows the expectation values of formula_58 and formula_59 to be easily evaluated for a **state** formula_60. The energies are simply The above may be read as implying that the LS-coupling is completely broken by the external field. However formula_62 and formula_63 are still "good" quantum numbe...
702. ...y only in a dry atmosphere. It requires mechanical power to turn the disks against the electric field, and it is this energy that the machine converts into the electric power of the spark. The steady-**state** output of the Wimshurst machine is a direct (non-alternating) current that is proportional to the area covered by the metal sector, the rotation speed, and a complicated function of the initial charg...
703. ...emical reaction that gains or "accepts"/"receives" an electron from a (called the , , or "electron donor"). In other words, an oxidizer is any substance that oxidizes another substance. The oxidation **state**, which describes the degree of loss of electrons, of the oxidizer decreases while that of the reductant increases; this is expressed by saying that oxidizers "undergo reduction" and "are reduced" whi...
704. ...ependence. Only truly "gray" systems (relative equivalent emissivity/absorptivity and no directional transmissivity dependence in "all" control volume bodies considered) can achieve reasonable steady-**state** heat flux estimates through the Stefan-Boltzmann law. Encountering this "ideally calculable" situation is almost impossible (although common engineering procedures surrender the dependency of these u...
705. ..., he was so poor that he had to support himself with teaching and private tutoring positions. He intended to go into medicine, but in 1824 he was appointed an assistant engineer for the survey of the **State** road being constructed between the Hudson River and Lake Erie. From then on, he was inspired to a career in either civil or mechanical engineering. Henry excelled academically, even often helping his...
706. ...1 where the vector is the relative position between the charges. This interaction complicates the theoretical treatment of the fluid. For example, a naive quantum mechanical calculation of the ground-**state** energy density yields infinity, which is unreasonable. The difficulty lies in the fact that even though the Coulomb force diminishes with distance as , the average number of particles at each distanc...
707. ...his flow reduces the "effective" interaction between particles to a short-range "screened" Coulomb interaction. This system corresponds to the simplest example of a renormalized interaction. In solid-**state** physics, especially for metals and semiconductors, the screening effect describes the electrostatic field and Coulomb potential of an ion inside the solid. Like the electric field of the nucleus is r...
708. ...nsity produced by an external field in the absence of screening and formula_7 is the vacuum permittivity. This equation can be derived in several screening models like Thomas–Fermi screening in solid-**state** physics and Debye screening in plasmas. Without loss of generality, we will take "λ" to be non-negative. When "λ" is zero, the equation reduces to Poisson's equation. Therefore, when "λ" is very smal...
709. ...in many aspects similar to electron-hole droplets in semiconductors. However, in contrast to electron-hole droplets, Rydberg matter has an extended life-time—as long as hours. This condensed excited **state** of matter is supported by experiments, mainly of a group led by Holmlid. It is similar to a liquid or solid state of matter with extremely low (gas-like) density. Lumps of atmospheric Rydberg matter...
710. ...ts, Rydberg matter has an extended life-time—as long as hours. This condensed excited state of matter is supported by experiments, mainly of a group led by Holmlid. It is similar to a liquid or solid **state** of matter with extremely low (gas-like) density. Lumps of atmospheric Rydberg matter can result from condensation of highly excited atoms that form by atmospheric electrical phenomena, mainly from li...
711. ...ee and six years, during which time they are paid as a percentage of the Journeyperson's pay. Journeymen are electricians who have completed their Apprenticeship and who have been found by the local, **State**, or National licensing body to be competent in the electrical trade. Master Electricians have performed well in the trade for a period of time, often seven to ten years, and have passed an exam to de...
712. ...eds to be tested regularly to ensure it is still protecting the worker. Because of the high risk involved in this trade, this testing needs to be performed regularly and regulations vary according to **state**. Industry best practice is the Queensland Electrical Safety Act 2002, and requires six-monthly testing. Training of electricians follows an apprenticeship model, taking four or five years to progress...
713. ...) and classroom hours (about 144 hours). Requirements include completion of two to six years of apprenticeship training and passing a licensing exam. An electrician's license is valid for work in the **state** where the license was issued. In addition, many states recognize licenses from other states, sometimes called interstate reciprocity participation, although there can be conditions imposed. For examp...
714. ...tion, although there can be conditions imposed. For example, California reciprocates with Arizona, Nevada, and Utah on the condition that licenses are in good standing and have been held at the other **state** for five years. Nevada reciprocates with Arizona, California, and Utah. Maine reciprocates with New Hampshire and Vermont at the master level, and the state reciprocates with New Hampshire, North Dak...
715. ...d standing and have been held at the other state for five years. Nevada reciprocates with Arizona, California, and Utah. Maine reciprocates with New Hampshire and Vermont at the master level, and the **state** reciprocates with New Hampshire, North Dakota, Idaho, Oregon, Vermont, and Wyoming at the journeyperson level. Colorado maintains a journeyperson alliance with Alaska, Arkansas, the Dakotas, Idaho, I...
716. ...ctric, the charges in molecules can move a little under the influence of an electric field. The positive and negative charges in molecules separate under the applied field, causing an increase in the **state** of polarization, expressed as the polarization density . A changing state of polarization is equivalent to a current. Both contributions to the displacement current are combined by defining the displ...
717. ...n electric field. The positive and negative charges in molecules separate under the applied field, causing an increase in the state of polarization, expressed as the polarization density . A changing **state** of polarization is equivalent to a current. Both contributions to the displacement current are combined by defining the displacement current as: where the electric displacement field is defined as: w...
718. ...transparent TFTs (TTFTs) could be used to enable head-up displays (such as on a car windshield).The first solution-processed TTFTs, based on zinc oxide, were reported in 2003 by researchers at Oregon **State** University. The Portuguese laboratory CENIMAT at the Universidade Nova de Lisboa has produced the world's first completely transparent TFT at room temperature. CENIMAT also developed the first paper...
719. ...opylene is produced by the chain-growth polymerization of propene: The industrial production processes can be grouped into gas phase polymerization, bulk polymerization and slurry polymerization. All **state**-of-the-art processes use either gas-phase or bulk reactor systems. The properties of PP are strongly affected by its tacticity, the orientation of the methyl groups () relative to the methyl groups i...
720. ...machining. Surface treatments can be applied to polypropylene parts in order to promote adhesion of printing ink and paints. Expanded Polypropylene (EPP) has been produced through both solid and melt **state** processing. EPP is manufactured using melt processing with either chemical or physical blowing agents. Expansion of PP in solid state, due to its highly crystalline structure, has not been successful...
721. ...Polypropylene (EPP) has been produced through both solid and melt state processing. EPP is manufactured using melt processing with either chemical or physical blowing agents. Expansion of PP in solid **state**, due to its highly crystalline structure, has not been successful. In this regard, two novel strategies were developed for expansion of PP. It was observed that PP can be expanded to make EPP through...
722. ...It is also being used to develop nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computers. The first observation of electron-spin resonance was in 1944 by Y. K. Zavosky, a Soviet physicist then teaching at Kazan **State** University (now Kazan Federal University). Nuclear magnetic resonance was first observed in 1946 in the US by a team led by Felix Bloch at the same time as a separate team led by Edward Mills Purcell...
723. ...ranges used in common refrigerators.<ref name="doi10.1088/0022-327/38/23/R01"></ref> A magnetocaloric material warms up when a magnetic field is applied. The warming is due to changes in the internal **state** of the material releasing heat. When the magnetic field is removed, the material returns to its original state, reabsorbing the heat, and returning to original temperature. To achieve refrigeration,...
724. ...warms up when a magnetic field is applied. The warming is due to changes in the internal state of the material releasing heat. When the magnetic field is removed, the material returns to its original **state**, reabsorbing the heat, and returning to original temperature. To achieve refrigeration, the material is allowed to radiate away its heat while in the magnetized hot state. Removing the magnetism, the...
725. ...rial returns to its original state, reabsorbing the heat, and returning to original temperature. To achieve refrigeration, the material is allowed to radiate away its heat while in the magnetized hot **state**. Removing the magnetism, the material then cools to "below" its original temperature. The effect was first observed in 1881 by a German physicist Emil Warburg, followed by French physicist P. Weiss a...
726. ...proceeds roughly as follows. First, a strong magnetic field is applied to the refrigerant, forcing its various magnetic dipoles to align and putting these degrees of freedom of the refrigerant into a **state** of lowered entropy. The heat sink then absorbs the heat released by the refrigerant due to its loss of entropy. Thermal contact with the heat sink is then broken so that the system is insulated, and...
727. ...25 K. Between 1933 and 1997, advances in MCE cooling occurred. In 1997, the first near room-temperature proof of concept magnetic refrigerator was demonstrated by Karl A. Gschneidner, Jr. by the Iowa **State** University at Ames Laboratory. This event attracted interest from scientists and companies worldwide who started developing new kinds of room temperature materials and magnetic refrigerator designs....
728. ...(formula_2) emanates at a micro-level in transistors. Small amounts of currents are always flowing between the differently doped parts of the transistor. The magnitude of these currents depend on the **state** of the transistor, its dimensions, physical properties and sometimes temperature. The total amount of leakage currents tends to inflate for increasing temperature and decreasing transistor sizes. Bot...
729. ...War, the parrilla was used in Argentina. Francisco Tenório Júnior (known as Tenorinho), a Brazilian piano player, was subjected to the parrilla during the military dictatorship in Brazil. The Islamic **State** has used electric shocks to torture and kill captives. Advocates for the mentally ill and some psychiatrists such as Thomas Szasz have asserted that electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is torture when us...
730. ...flow increases dramatically with temperature. The term "thermionic emission" is now also used to refer to any thermally-excited charge emission process, even when the charge is emitted from one solid-**state** region into another. Because the electron was not identified as a separate physical particle until the work of J. J. Thomson in 1897, the word "electron" was not used when discussing experiments that...
731. ...combat related attire such as gloves and face masks. Because of its tolerance of extreme conditions, neoprene is used to line landfills. Neoprene's burn point is around 260 °C (500 °F). In its native **state**, neoprene is a very pliable rubber-like material with insulating properties similar to rubber or other solid plastics. Neoprene foam is used in many applications and is produced in either closed-cell...
732. ...r work terms, such as those involving electric, magnetic or gravitational fields may be added. From the above equation, the chemical potential is given by This is because the internal energy "U" is a **state** function, so if its differential exists, then the differential is an exact differential such as for independent variables "x", "x", ... , "x" of "U".  This expression of the chemical potential as a p...
733. ...for formula_29. The phrase "chemical potential" sometimes means "total chemical potential", but that is not universal. In some fields, in particular electrochemistry, semiconductor physics, and solid-**state** physics, the term "chemical potential" means "internal" chemical potential, while the term electrochemical potential is used to mean "total" chemical potential. Electrons in solids have a chemical po...
734. ...d in energy per particle rather than energy per mole, and the energy per particle is conventionally given in units of electronvolt (eV). Chemical potential plays an especially important role in solid-**state** physics and is closely related to the concepts of work function, Fermi energy, and Fermi level. For example, n-type silicon has a higher internal chemical potential of electrons than p-type silicon....
735. ...le set of rails. The barrel must withstand these conditions for up to several rounds per minute for thousands of shots without failure or significant degradation. These parameters are well beyond the **state** of the art in materials science. The power supply must be able to deliver large currents, sustained and controlled over a useful amount of time. The most important gauge of power supply effectiveness...
736. ...C4. On 31 January 2008, the U.S. Navy tested a railgun that fired a projectile at 10.64 MJ with a muzzle velocity of . The power was provided by a new 9-megajoule prototype capacitor bank using solid-**state** switches and high-energy-density capacitors delivered in 2007 and an older 32-MJ pulse power system from the US Army's Green Farm Electric Gun Research and Development Facility developed in the late...
737. ...pass element. Because a linear voltage regulator is a common element of many devices, single-chip regulators ICs are very common. Linear regulators may also be made up of assemblies of discrete solid-**state** or vacuum tube components. Despite their name, linear regulators are non-linear circuits because they contain non-linear components (such as Zener diodes, as shown below in the simple shunt regulator...
738. ...her frequencies) and a lower voltage drop when conducting. For even lower output voltages, MOSFETs may be used as synchronous rectifiers; compared to Schottky diodes, these have even lower conducting **state** voltage drops. The rectified output is then smoothed by a filter consisting of inductors and capacitors. For higher switching frequencies, components with lower capacitance and inductance are needed....
739. ...enon of electroluminescence was discovered in 1907 using silicon carbide and some of the first commercial LEDs were based on this material. When General Electric of America introduced its SSL-1 Solid **State** Lamp in March 1967, using a tiny chip of semi-conducting SiC to emit a point of yellow light, it was then the world's brightest LED. By 1970 it had been usurped by brighter red LEDs, but yellow LEDs...
740. ...resource for many emerging applications of quantum information science. If one pumps a color center via an external optical source or electric current, the color center will be brought to the excited **state** and then relax with the emission of one photon. One well known point defect in silicon carbide is the divacancy which has a similar electronic structure as the nitrogen-vacancy center in diamond. In...
741. ...other storage conductor), and the opposite charge is stored in another object after grounding (in the earth or the person touching the metal plate). This separation takes work since the lowest energy **state** implies uncharged objects. Work is done by raising the charged metal plate away from the oppositely charged resinous plate. This additional energy put into the system is converted to potential energy...
742. ...t on Mie work for solids, showing that formula_15 and formula_16 is required for solids. As a result of this work the Lennard-Jones potential is sometimes called the Mie− Grüneisen potential in solid-**state** physics. In 1930, after the discovery of quantum mechanics, Fritz London showed that theory predicts the long-range attractive force should have formula_6. In 1931, Lennard-Jones applied this form of...
743. ...tions on "fast computing machines" became available in 1953. Since then many studies reported data of the Lennard-Jones substance; approximately 50,000 data points are publicly available. The current **state** of research on the thermophysical properties of the Lennard-Jones substance is summarized by Stephan et al. (which did not cover transport and mixture properties). The US National Institute of Standa...
744. ...lations derived from computer experiment results (hence, lines instead of data points are shown). The mean intermolecular interaction of a Lennard-Jones particle strongly depends on the thermodynamic **state**, i.e., temperature and pressure (or density). For solid states, the attractive Lennard-Jones interaction plays a dominant role – especially at low temperatures. For liquid states, no ordered structur...
745. ...n's characteristic curves and the virial coefficients are directly linked in the limit of the ideal gas and are therefore known exactly at formula_60. Both computer simulation results and equation of **state** results have been reported in the literature for the Lennard-Jones potential. Points on the Zeno curve Z have a compressibility factor of unity formula_61. The Zeno curve originates at the Boyle temp...
746. ...certainties usually reported for single data sets are significantly below the above stated values (even for far more complex molecular force fields). Both phase equilibrium properties and homogeneous **state** properties at arbitrary density can in general only be obtained from molecular simulations, whereas virial coefficients can be computed directly from the Lennard-Jones potential. Numerical data for t...
747. ...tudied, but the database is significantly less dense than for homogeneous equilibrium properties like formula_74 – or internal energy data. Moreover, a large number of analytical models (equations of **state**) have been developed for the description of the Lennard-Jones fluid (see below for details). The database and knowledge for the Lennard-Jones solid is significantly poorer than for the fluid phases....
748. ...es. It was realized early that the interactions in solid phases should not be approximated to be pair-wise additive – especially for metals. Nevertheless, the Lennard-Jones potential is used in solid-**state** physics due to its simplicity and computational efficiency. Hence, the basic properties of the solid phases and the solid–fluid phase equilibria have been investigated several times, e.g. Refs. The L...
749. ...vored and therefore the equilibrium structure. The fcc lattice structure is energetically favored at both high temperature and high pressure and therefore overall the equilibrium structure in a wider **state** range. The coexistence line between the fcc and hcp phase starts at formula_75 at approximately formula_76, passes through a temperature maximum at approximately formula_77, and then ends on the vapo...
750. ...arguments) can be used for these so-called combination rules. The most widely used combination rule is the one of Lorentz and Berthelot formula_92 formula_93 The parameter formula_94 is an additional **state**-independent interaction parameter for the mixture. The parameter formula_95 is usually set to unity since the arithmetic mean can be considered physically plausible for the cross-interaction size par...
751. ...e parameter. The parameter formula_94 on the other hand is often used to adjust the geometric mean so as to reproduce the phase behavior of the model mixture. For analytical models, e.g. equations of **state**, the deviation parameter is usually written as formula_97. For formula_98, the cross-interaction dispersion energy and accordingly the attractive force between unlike particles is intensified, and th...
752. ...ist where the solid phase boundaries interrupt fluid phase equilibria. However, for phase equilibria that comprise solid phases, the amount of published data is sparse. A large number of equations of **state** (EOS) for the Lennard-Jones potential/ substance have been proposed since its characterization and evaluation became available with the first computer simulations. Due to the fundamental importance o...
753. ...mportance of the Lennard-Jones potential, most currently available molecular-based EOS are built around the Lennard-Jones fluid. They have been comprehensively reviewed by Stephan et al. Equations of **state** for the Lennard-Jones fluid are of particular importance in soft-matter physics and physical chemistry, used as starting point for the development of EOS for complex fluids, e.g. polymers and associa...
754. ...itted to any desired real substance property. In soft-matter physics, usually experimental data for the vapor–liquid phase equilibrium or the critical point are used for the parametrization; in solid-**state** physics, rather the compressibility, heat capacity or lattice constants are employed. The second outlined approach of using the Lennard-Jones potential as a building block of elongated and complex mo...
755. ...the Lennard-Jones potential, e.g. the TraPPE force field, the OPLS force field, and the MolMod force field (an overview of molecular force fields is out of the scope of the present article). For the **state**-of-the-art modeling of solid-state materials, more elaborate multi-body potentials (e.g. EAM potentials) are used. The Lennard-Jones potential yields a good approximation of intermolecular interactio...
756. ...the TraPPE force field, the OPLS force field, and the MolMod force field (an overview of molecular force fields is out of the scope of the present article). For the state-of-the-art modeling of solid-**state** materials, more elaborate multi-body potentials (e.g. EAM potentials) are used. The Lennard-Jones potential yields a good approximation of intermolecular interactions for many applications: The macro...
757. ...are not comprised in the Lennard-Jones potential. Therefore, the Lennard-Jones potential is extensively used in soft-matter physics and associated fields, whereas it is less frequently used in solid-**state** physics. Due to its simplicity, the Lennard-Jones potential is often used to describe the properties of gases and simple fluids and to model dispersive and repulsive interactions in molecular models....
758. ...by TRW Semiconductors, the successor to Pacific Semiconductors, in October 1967. This helps explain the different names for the device as it came into use. Varactors are operated in a reverse-biased **state**, so no DC current flows through the device. The amount of reverse bias controls the thickness of the depletion zone and therefore the varactor's junction capacitance. Capacitance change characteristi...
759. ...uried under tons of rubble, Ororo survives but is orphaned and left with intense claustrophobia. Her fear was once so intense that she was known to curl into a fetal position and approach a catatonic **state**. In late 2000s storylines, however, writers like Ed Brubaker and Christopher Yost have indicated that Storm had largely conquered her claustrophobia, and can freely move in tight spaces, even over lo...
760. ...atural world, and her psionic powers over the weather are affected by her emotions. One consequence of this connection to nature is that she often suppresses extreme feelings to prevent her emotional **state** from resulting in violent weather. Storm can view the Earth as weather patterns, and is able to precisely recognize her geographic position through interpretations of these patterns. Storm's mutant a...
761. ...cters." "IGN" stated, "Storm's ability to manipulate and harness the weather makes her one of the most powerful mutants on Earth. But power like that comes at a great cost. Storm lives every day in a **state** of carefully maintained composure. Too much stress could be deadly for everyone around her. Fans have seen Storm as a thief, an X-Man, a fighter, and even a queen. Through it all, she remains one of...
762. ...cond inequality places the density in the "L" space. Together with the normalization property places acceptable densities within the intersection of "L" and "L" – a superset of formula_26. The ground **state** electronic density of an atom is conjectured to be a monotonically decaying function of the distance from the nucleus. The electronic density displays cusps at each nucleus in a molecule as a result...
763. ..."perfect" conductor with zero resistance. For a passive device to have formula_20 would violate either conservation of energy or the second law of thermodynamics, "(diagram)". Therefore, some authors **state** that static resistance can never be negative. However it is easily shown that the ratio of voltage to current v/i at the terminals of any power source (AC or DC) is negative. For electric power (pote...
764. ...- to medium-power oscillators for applications such as radar speed guns, and local oscillators for satellite receivers. They are a widely used source of microwave energy, and virtually the only solid-**state** source of millimeter wave and terahertz energy Negative resistance microwave vacuum tubes such as magnetrons produce higher power outputs, in such applications as radar transmitters and microwave ove...
765. ...h the total impedance formula_141 is zero. This means the magnitude of the negative and positive resistances must be equal, and the reactances must be conjugate formula_142 and formula_143 For steady-**state** oscillation the equal sign applies. During startup the inequality applies, because the circuit must have excess negative resistance for oscillations to start. Alternately, the condition for oscillati...
766. ...ices such as isolators and directional couplers. One widely used circuit is the "reflection amplifier" in which the separation is accomplished by a "circulator". A circulator is a nonreciprocal solid-**state** component with three ports (connectors) which transfers a signal applied to one port to the next in only one direction, port 1 to port 2, 2 to 3, and 3 to 1. In the reflection amplifier diagram the i...
767. ...they are used in applications like radio telescopes. Negative differential resistance devices are also used in switching circuits in which the device operates nonlinearly, changing abruptly from one **state** to another, with hysteresis. The advantage of using a negative resistance device is that a relaxation oscillator, flip-flop or memory cell can be built with a single active device, whereas the standa...
768. ...iodes practically was Russian radio researcher Oleg Losev, who in 1922 discovered negative differential resistance in biased zincite (zinc oxide) point contact junctions. He used these to build solid-**state** amplifiers, oscillators, and amplifying and regenerative radio receivers, 25 years before the invention of the transistor. Later he even built a superheterodyne receiver. However his achievements wer...
769. ...because of the success of vacuum tube technology. After ten years he abandoned research into this technology (dubbed "Crystodyne" by Hugo Gernsback), and it was forgotten. The first widely used solid-**state** negative resistance device was the tunnel diode, invented in 1957 by Japanese physicist Leo Esaki. Because they have lower parasitic capacitance than vacuum tubes due to their small junction size, di...
770. ...kill instantaneously without leaving a mark on the victim. This would lead to execution by electricity in the electric chair in the early 1890s as an official method of capital punishment in the U.S. **state** of New York, thought to be a more humane alternative to hanging. After an 1881 death in Buffalo, New York, caused by a high-voltage arc lighting system, Alfred P. Southwick sought to develop this phe...
771. ...sought to develop this phenomenon into a way to execute condemned criminals. Southwick, a dentist, based his device on the dental chair. The next nine years saw a promotion by Southwick, the New York **state** Gerry commission (which included Southwick) recommending execution by electricity, a June 4, 1888 law making it the state form of execution on January 2, 1889, and a further state committee of doctor...
772. ...dental chair. The next nine years saw a promotion by Southwick, the New York state Gerry commission (which included Southwick) recommending execution by electricity, a June 4, 1888 law making it the **state** form of execution on January 2, 1889, and a further state committee of doctors and lawyers to finalize the details of the method used. The adoption of the electric chair became mixed up in the "war o...
773. ...hwick, the New York state Gerry commission (which included Southwick) recommending execution by electricity, a June 4, 1888 law making it the state form of execution on January 2, 1889, and a further **state** committee of doctors and lawyers to finalize the details of the method used. The adoption of the electric chair became mixed up in the "war of currents" between Thomas Edison's direct current system...
774. ...e Thomson-Houston Electric Company, for the successful adoption of alternating current to power the chair, an attempt to portray AC as a public menace and the "executioners' current". In May 1889 the **state** of New York sentenced its first criminal, a street merchant and convicted murderer named William Kemmler, to be executed in their new form of capital punishment. Tabloid newspapers, trying to describ...
775. ...by "pretentious ignoramuses". Electrocutions are relatively rare, causing about 1000 fatalities in the United States each year, with about 150 additional cases attributed to lightning. Fish & Geddes **state**: "Contact with 20 mA of low-frequency electrical current through the chest can be fatal". The threshold electrical current RMS magnitude required to trigger cardiac arrest is well studied. The mechan...
776. ...ugh it can also be used to refer to a woman juggling her own breasts. When tasked with putting out a fire on Mount Frypan, Master Roshi demonstrated an ability to greatly increase his energy. In this **state**, his appearance changes dramatically, with an enormous increase in muscle mass and likewise height which was nearly equal to Piccolo. Due to his natural precision in battle, this bulky state does not...
777. ...In this state, his appearance changes dramatically, with an enormous increase in muscle mass and likewise height which was nearly equal to Piccolo. Due to his natural precision in battle, this bulky **state** does not appear to affect his speed and agility. In this state, he can perform many ki attacks at their maximum potential, most noticeably an enhanced version of his "Kamehameha" attack, which was so...
778. ...ormous increase in muscle mass and likewise height which was nearly equal to Piccolo. Due to his natural precision in battle, this bulky state does not appear to affect his speed and agility. In this **state**, he can perform many ki attacks at their maximum potential, most noticeably an enhanced version of his "Kamehameha" attack, which was so powerful that it was able to destroy the moon. At the beginnin...
779. ...see the flashes of lightning from very far distances, up to , but the sound does not carry that far. In the United States, lightning is especially common in Florida, which is considered the deadliest **state** for lightning strikes in the country. This is due to high moisture content in the lower atmosphere and high surface temperature, which produces strong sea breezes along the Florida coast. As a result...
780. ...daughter, Mala Htun, also a professor at the University of New Mexico. His son, David E. Muller, professor emeritus of mathematics and computer science at the University of Illinois and at New Mexico **State** University, died in 2008 in Las Cruces, New Mexico. David's mother was Jessie Jacobs Muller Offermann (1890–1954), Hermann's first wife. Helen's mother was Dorothea Kantorowicz Muller (1909–1986), He...
781. ...negative B (and thus require both positive and negative magnetic fields to operate). The difference between B and B tends to be greater for bipolar switches described as latches, which remain in one **state** much longer (i.e. they latch onto their last value) and require a greater field strength to change states than bipolar switches require. The naming distinction between "bipolar" and "latch" may be a...
782. ...porated to determine a 2-D direction, and another perpendicularly-oriented Hall element must be added to detect the full 3-D components of the magnetic field vector. Because Hall sensor ICs are solid-**state** devices, they are not prone to mechanical wear. Thus, they can operate at much higher speeds than mechanical sensors, and their lifespan is not limited by mechanical failure (unlike potentiometers, e...
783. ...in a vacuum. This effect was first observed by Thomas Edison in light bulb filaments, where it is sometimes called the Edison effect. Space charge is a significant phenomenon in many vacuum and solid-**state** electronic devices. When a metal object is placed in a vacuum and is heated to incandescence, the energy is sufficient to cause electrons to "boil" away from the surface atoms and surround the metal...
784. ...the following assumptions: The assumption of no scattering (ballistic transport) is what makes the predictions of Child–Langmuir law different from those of Mott–Gurney law. The latter assumes steady-**state** drift transport and therefore strong scattering. Child's law was further generalized by Buford R. Conley in 1995 for the case of non-zero velocity at the cathode surface with the following equation:...
785. ..._4, formula_17 is small and formula_47, so that: Thus the current increases as the square of formula_4. For large formula_4, formula_50 and we obtain: formula_51 As an application example, the steady-**state** space-charge-limited current across a piece of intrinsic silicon with a charge-carrier mobility of 1500 cm/V-s, a relative dielectric constant of 11.9, an area of 10 cm and a thickness of 10 cm can b...
786. ...their largest use was as the ignition coil or spark coil in the ignition system of internal combustion engines, where they are still used, although the interrupter contacts are now replaced by solid **state** switches. A smaller version is used to trigger the flash tubes used in cameras and strobe lights. Dynamo theory In physics, the dynamo theory proposes a mechanism by which a celestial body such as Ea...
787. ...of magnetic field to diffusion. Tidal forces between celestial orbiting bodies cause friction that heats up their interiors. This is known as tidal heating, and it helps keep the interior in a liquid **state**. A liquid interior that can conduct electricity is required to produce a dynamo. Saturn's Enceladus and Jupiter's Io have enough tidal heating to liquify their inner cores, but they may not create a...
788. ...uations, its interpretation is that the model's phase space preserves continuity via continuous time flows. When the continuity of that flow spontaneously breaks down, the system is in the stochastic **state** of "deterministic chaos". In other words, kinematic dynamo arises because of chaotic flow in the underlying background matter. The kinematic approximation becomes invalid when the magnetic field beco...
789. ...cement of numerical dynamo modelling. Thermodynamic potential A thermodynamic potential (or more accurately, a thermodynamic potential energy) is a scalar quantity used to represent the thermodynamic **state** of a system. Just as in mechanics, where potential energy is defined as capacity to do work, similarly different potentials have different meanings. The concept of thermodynamic potentials was introd...
790. ...e of minimum energy for a derivation) For each thermodynamic potential, there are thermodynamic variables that need to be held constant to specify the potential value at a thermodynamical equilibrium **state**, such as independent variables for a mathematical function. These variables are termed the natural variables of that potential. The natural variables are important not only to specify the potential v...
791. ...mic process path-dependent. Small changes in these variables are, therefore, represented with rather than .) By the second law of thermodynamics, we can express the internal energy change in terms of **state** functions and their differentials. In case of reversible changes we have: where and is volume, and the equality holds for reversible processes. This leads to the standard differential form of the int...
792. ...the equality holds for reversible processes. This leads to the standard differential form of the internal energy in case of a quasistatic reversible change: Since , and are thermodynamic functions of **state** (also called state functions), the above relation also holds for arbitrary non-reversible changes. If the system has more external variables than just the volume that can change, the fundamental ther...
793. ...for reversible processes. This leads to the standard differential form of the internal energy in case of a quasistatic reversible change: Since , and are thermodynamic functions of state (also called **state** functions), the above relation also holds for arbitrary non-reversible changes. If the system has more external variables than just the volume that can change, the fundamental thermodynamic relation...
794. ...nstants. This yields expressions for various thermodynamic parameters in terms of the derivatives of the potentials with respect to their natural variables. These equations are known as "equations of **state**" since they specify parameters of the thermodynamic state. If we restrict ourselves to the potentials (Internal energy), (Helmholtz energy), (Enthalpy) and (Gibbs energy), then we have the following...
795. ...parameters in terms of the derivatives of the potentials with respect to their natural variables. These equations are known as "equations of state" since they specify parameters of the thermodynamic **state**. If we restrict ourselves to the potentials (Internal energy), (Helmholtz energy), (Enthalpy) and (Gibbs energy), then we have the following equations of state (subscripts showing natural variables t...
796. ...specify parameters of the thermodynamic state. If we restrict ourselves to the potentials (Internal energy), (Helmholtz energy), (Enthalpy) and (Gibbs energy), then we have the following equations of **state** (subscripts showing natural variables that are held as constants): where, in the last equation, is any of the thermodynamic potentials (, , , or ), and formula_16 are the set of natural variables for...
797. ...f the thermodynamic potentials (, , , or ), and formula_16 are the set of natural variables for that potential, excluding . If we use all thermodynamic potentials, then we will have more equations of **state** such as and so on. In all, if the thermodynamic space is dimensions, then there will be  equations for each potential, resulting in a total of equations of state because thermodynamic potentials exis...
798. ..., then we will have more equations of state such as and so on. In all, if the thermodynamic space is dimensions, then there will be  equations for each potential, resulting in a total of equations of **state** because thermodynamic potentials exist. If the equations of state for a particular potential are known, then the fundamental equation for that potential (i.e., the exact differential of the thermodyn...
799. ...all, if the thermodynamic space is dimensions, then there will be  equations for each potential, resulting in a total of equations of state because thermodynamic potentials exist. If the equations of **state** for a particular potential are known, then the fundamental equation for that potential (i.e., the exact differential of the thermodynamic potential) can be determined. This means that all thermodynam...
800. ...that all thermodynamic information about the system will be known because the fundamental equations for any other potential can be found via the Legendre transforms and the corresponding equations of **state** for each potential as partial derivatives of the potential can also be found. The above equations of state suggest methods to experimentally measure changes in the thermodynamic potentials using phys...
801. ...other potential can be found via the Legendre transforms and the corresponding equations of state for each potential as partial derivatives of the potential can also be found. The above equations of **state** suggest methods to experimentally measure changes in the thermodynamic potentials using physically measurable parameters. For example the free energy expressions and can be integrated at constant tem...
802. ...ble to situations in which chemical reactions take place. Again, define and to be conjugate pairs, and the to be the natural variables of some potential . We may take the "cross differentials" of the **state** equations, which obey the following relationship: From these we get the Maxwell relations. There will be of them for each potential giving a total of equations in all. If we restrict ourselves the ,...
803. ...ollowing relationship: From these we get the Maxwell relations. There will be of them for each potential giving a total of equations in all. If we restrict ourselves the , , ,  Using the equations of **state** involving the chemical potential we get equations such as: and using the other potentials we can get equations such as: Again, define and to be conjugate pairs, and the to be the natural variables of...
804. ...nce all of the natural variables of the internal energy are extensive quantities it follows from Euler's homogeneous function theorem that the internal energy can be written as: From the equations of **state**, we then have: This formula is known as an "Euler relation", because Euler's theorem on homogeneous functions leads to it. (It was not discovered by Euler in an investigation of thermodynamics, which...
805. ...ssion of entropy as a function of internal energy and other extensive variables. Yet other Euler relations hold for other fundamental equations for energy or entropy, as respective functions of other **state** variables including some intensive state variables. Deriving the Gibbs–Duhem equation from basic thermodynamic state equations is straightforward. Equating any thermodynamic potential definition with...
806. ...l energy and other extensive variables. Yet other Euler relations hold for other fundamental equations for energy or entropy, as respective functions of other state variables including some intensive **state** variables. Deriving the Gibbs–Duhem equation from basic thermodynamic state equations is straightforward. Equating any thermodynamic potential definition with its Euler relation expression yields: Di...
807. ...ther fundamental equations for energy or entropy, as respective functions of other state variables including some intensive state variables. Deriving the Gibbs–Duhem equation from basic thermodynamic **state** equations is straightforward. Equating any thermodynamic potential definition with its Euler relation expression yields: Differentiating, and using the second law: yields: Which is the Gibbs–Duhem re...
808. ...terward. He then discovers the resurrected Red Ribbon Army and its ulterior motives while disguised. Through a wish from the Dragon Balls, Shenlong unlocks Piccolo's potential, taking on an empowered **state** similar to that of his pupil's form, and has Pan play along with a plan to sabotage the army's ploy and put Gohan back to fighting spirit. He then ascends to his first true transformation as a "littl...
809. ...on are the diurnal variations of the background Schumann resonance power spectrum. A characteristic Schumann resonance diurnal record reflects the properties of both global lightning activity and the **state** of the Earth–ionosphere cavity between the source region and the observer. The vertical electric field is independent of the direction of the source relative to the observer, and is therefore a measu...
810. ...mbination of the two technologies (sometimes in the same installation), using the static VAR compensator to provide support for fast changes and the mechanically switched capacitors to provide steady-**state** VARs. Similar devices include the static synchronous compensator (STATCOM) and unified power flow controller (UPFC). Electron diffraction Electron diffraction is a generic term for phenomena associat...
811. ...stian Ziani de Ferranti, Lucien Gaulard, John Dixon Gibbs, Carl Wilhelm Siemens, William Stanley Jr., Nikola Tesla, and others contributed to this field. Power electronics is the application of solid-**state** electronics to the control and conversion of electric power. Power electronics started with the development of the mercury arc rectifier in 1902, used to convert AC into DC. From the 1920s on, resear...
812. ...vily regulated, often with price controls and is frequently government-owned and operated. However, the modern trend has been growing deregulation in at least the latter two processes. The nature and **state** of market reform of the electricity market often determines whether electric companies are able to be involved in just some of these processes without having to own the entire infrastructure, or citi...
813. ...g these parameters generally gets more challenging as the frequency increases. Photoflash capacitor A photoflash capacitor is a high-voltage electrolytic capacitor used in camera flashes and in solid-**state** laser power supplies. Their usual purpose is to briefly power a flash lamp, used to illuminate a photographic subject or optically pump a laser rod. As flash tubes require very high current for a ver...
814. ...n spectrum The emission spectrum of a chemical element or chemical compound is the spectrum of frequencies of electromagnetic radiation emitted due to electrons making a transition from a high energy **state** to a lower energy state. The photon energy of the emitted photons is equal to the energy difference between the two states. There are many possible electron transitions for each atom, and each transi...
815. ...spectrum of a chemical element or chemical compound is the spectrum of frequencies of electromagnetic radiation emitted due to electrons making a transition from a high energy state to a lower energy **state**. The photon energy of the emitted photons is equal to the energy difference between the two states. There are many possible electron transitions for each atom, and each transition has a specific ener...
816. ...er of unknown composition. Similarly, the emission spectra of molecules can be used in chemical analysis of substances. In physics, emission is the process by which a higher energy quantum mechanical **state** of a particle becomes converted to a lower one through the emission of a photon, resulting in the production of light. The frequency of light emitted is a function of the energy of the transition. Si...
817. ...When the electrons in the atom are excited, for example by being heated, the additional energy pushes the electrons to higher energy orbitals. When the electrons fall back down and leave the excited **state**, energy is re-emitted in the form of a photon. The wavelength (or equivalently, frequency) of the photon is determined by the difference in energy between the two states. These emitted photons form t...
818. ...wed directly through a spectroscope. Emission spectroscopy is a spectroscopic technique which examines the wavelengths of photons emitted by atoms or molecules during their transition from an excited **state** to a lower energy state. Each element emits a characteristic set of discrete wavelengths according to its electronic structure, and by observing these wavelengths the elemental composition of the sam...
819. ...pectroscope. Emission spectroscopy is a spectroscopic technique which examines the wavelengths of photons emitted by atoms or molecules during their transition from an excited state to a lower energy **state**. Each element emits a characteristic set of discrete wavelengths according to its electronic structure, and by observing these wavelengths the elemental composition of the sample can be determined. E...
820. ...veloped in the late 19th century and efforts in theoretical explanation of atomic emission spectra eventually led to quantum mechanics. There are many ways in which atoms can be brought to an excited **state**. Interaction with electromagnetic radiation is used in fluorescence spectroscopy, protons or other heavier particles in particle-induced X-ray emission and electrons or X-ray photons in energy-disper...
821. ...ins ("observable"), one denotes by formula_22 the expectation (mean) value of formula_21. The configuration probabilities formula_24 represent the probability that (in equilibrium) the system is in a **state** with configuration formula_25. The minus sign on each term of the Hamiltonian function formula_26 is conventional. Using this sign convention, Ising models can be classified according to the sign of...
822. ...l is always zero. As before, this only proves that the average magnetization is zero at any finite volume. For an infinite system, fluctuations might not be able to push the system from a mostly plus **state** to a mostly minus with a nonzero probability. For very high temperatures, the magnetization is zero, as it is at infinite temperature. To see this, note that if spin A has only a small correlation ε...
823. ...iguration, the one where all the spins are plus or all the spins are minus. Peierls asked whether it is statistically possible at low temperature, starting with all the spins minus, to fluctuate to a **state** where most of the spins are plus. For this to happen, droplets of plus spin must be able to congeal to make the plus state. The energy of a droplet of plus spins in a minus background is proportional...
824. ...ble at low temperature, starting with all the spins minus, to fluctuate to a state where most of the spins are plus. For this to happen, droplets of plus spin must be able to congeal to make the plus **state**. The energy of a droplet of plus spins in a minus background is proportional to the perimeter of the droplet L, where plus spins and minus spins neighbor each other. For a droplet with perimeter "L",...
825. ...ame a standard model for the study of neural networks through statistical mechanics. The melt pond can be modelled by the Ising model; sea ice topography data bears rather heavily on the results. The **state** variable is binary for a simple 2D approximation, being either water or ice. In order to investigate an Ising model with potential relevance for large (e.g. with formula_82 or formula_83 interactions...
826. ...assuming zero external field "h", since many questions that are posed to be solved using the model can be answered in absence of an external field. This leads us to the following energy equation for **state** σ: formula_28 Given this Hamiltonian, quantities of interest such as the specific heat or the magnetization of the magnet at a given temperature can be calculated. The Metropolis–Hastings algorithm i...
827. ...s algorithm is the most commonly used Monte Carlo algorithm to calculate Ising model estimations. The algorithm first chooses "selection probabilities" "g"(μ, ν), which represent the probability that **state** ν is selected by the algorithm out of all states, given that one is in state μ. It then uses acceptance probabilities "A"(μ, ν) so that detailed balance is satisfied. If the new state ν is accepted,...
828. ...g model estimations. The algorithm first chooses "selection probabilities" "g"(μ, ν), which represent the probability that state ν is selected by the algorithm out of all states, given that one is in **state** μ. It then uses acceptance probabilities "A"(μ, ν) so that detailed balance is satisfied. If the new state ν is accepted, then we move to that state and repeat with selecting a new state and deciding...
829. ...robability that state ν is selected by the algorithm out of all states, given that one is in state μ. It then uses acceptance probabilities "A"(μ, ν) so that detailed balance is satisfied. If the new **state** ν is accepted, then we move to that state and repeat with selecting a new state and deciding to accept it. If ν is not accepted then we stay in μ. This process is repeated until some stopping criteri...
830. ...algorithm out of all states, given that one is in state μ. It then uses acceptance probabilities "A"(μ, ν) so that detailed balance is satisfied. If the new state ν is accepted, then we move to that **state** and repeat with selecting a new state and deciding to accept it. If ν is not accepted then we stay in μ. This process is repeated until some stopping criterion is met, which for the Ising model is of...
831. ...at one is in state μ. It then uses acceptance probabilities "A"(μ, ν) so that detailed balance is satisfied. If the new state ν is accepted, then we move to that state and repeat with selecting a new **state** and deciding to accept it. If ν is not accepted then we stay in μ. This process is repeated until some stopping criterion is met, which for the Ising model is often when the lattice becomes ferromagn...
832. ...pt of single-spin-flip dynamics, which states that in each transition, we will only change one of the spin sites on the lattice. Furthermore, by using single- spin-flip dynamics, one can get from any **state** to any other state by flipping each site that differs between the two states one at a time. The maximum amount of change between the energy of the present state, "H" and any possible new state's ener...
833. ...lip dynamics, which states that in each transition, we will only change one of the spin sites on the lattice. Furthermore, by using single- spin-flip dynamics, one can get from any state to any other **state** by flipping each site that differs between the two states one at a time. The maximum amount of change between the energy of the present state, "H" and any possible new state's energy "H" (using singl...
834. ...in-flip dynamics, one can get from any state to any other state by flipping each site that differs between the two states one at a time. The maximum amount of change between the energy of the present **state**, "H" and any possible new state's energy "H" (using single-spin-flip dynamics) is 2"J" between the spin we choose to "flip" to move to the new state and that spin's neighbor. Thus, in a 1D Ising mode...
835. ...om any state to any other state by flipping each site that differs between the two states one at a time. The maximum amount of change between the energy of the present state, "H" and any possible new **state**'s energy "H" (using single-spin-flip dynamics) is 2"J" between the spin we choose to "flip" to move to the new state and that spin's neighbor. Thus, in a 1D Ising model, where each site has two neigh...
836. ...amount of change between the energy of the present state, "H" and any possible new state's energy "H" (using single-spin-flip dynamics) is 2"J" between the spin we choose to "flip" to move to the new **state** and that spin's neighbor. Thus, in a 1D Ising model, where each site has two neighbors (left and right), the maximum difference in energy would be 4"J". Let "c" represent the "lattice coordination nu...
837. ...r the Ising model and using single-spin-flip dynamics, one can establish the following. Since there are "L" total sites on the lattice, using single-spin-flip as the only way we transition to another **state**, we can see that there are a total of "L" new states ν from our present state μ. The algorithm assumes that the selection probabilities are equal to the "L" states: "g"(μ, ν) = 1/"L". Detailed balanc...
838. ...ollowing. Since there are "L" total sites on the lattice, using single-spin-flip as the only way we transition to another state, we can see that there are a total of "L" new states ν from our present **state** μ. The algorithm assumes that the selection probabilities are equal to the "L" states: "g"(μ, ν) = 1/"L". Detailed balance tells us that the following equation must hold: formula_111 Thus, we want to...
839. ...is fast. This process will eventually produce a pick from the distribution. It is possible to view the Ising model as a Markov chain, as the immediate probability "P"(ν) of transitioning to a future **state** ν only depends on the present state μ. The Metropolis algorithm is actually a version of a Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation, and since we use single-spin-flip dynamics in the Metropolis algorithm,...
840. ...ly produce a pick from the distribution. It is possible to view the Ising model as a Markov chain, as the immediate probability "P"(ν) of transitioning to a future state ν only depends on the present **state** μ. The Metropolis algorithm is actually a version of a Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation, and since we use single-spin-flip dynamics in the Metropolis algorithm, every state can be viewed as having...
841. ...depends on the present state μ. The Metropolis algorithm is actually a version of a Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation, and since we use single-spin-flip dynamics in the Metropolis algorithm, every **state** can be viewed as having links to exactly "L" other states, where each transition corresponds to flipping a single spin site to the opposite value. Furthermore, since the energy equation "H" change on...
842. ...In matrix formalism formula_131 where λ is the highest eigenvalue of "V", while λ is the other eigenvalue: formula_132 and |λ| < λ. This gives the formula of the free energy. The energy of the lowest **state** is −"JL", when all the spins are the same. For any other configuration, the extra energy is equal to 2"J" times the number of sign changes that are encountered when scanning the configuration from le...
843. ...changes that are encountered when scanning the configuration from left to right. If we designate the number of sign changes in a configuration as "k", the difference in energy from the lowest energy **state** is 2"k". Since the energy is additive in the number of flips, the probability "p" of having a spin-flip at each position is independent. The ratio of the probability of finding a flip to the probabil...
844. ...c Ising model behave notably differently. Specifically, around a triangle, it is impossible to make all 3 spin-pairs antiparallel, so the antiferromagnetic Ising model cannot reach the minimal energy **state**. This is an example of geometric frustration. Start with an analogy with quantum mechanics. The Ising model on a long periodic lattice has a partition function formula_169 Think of the "i" direction...
845. ...ps. The σ term in "T" counts the number of spin flips, which we can write in terms of spin-flip creation and annihilation operators: formula_179 The first term flips a spin, so depending on the basis **state** it either: Writing this out in terms of creation and annihilation operators: formula_180 Ignore the constant coefficients, and focus attention on the form. They are all quadratic. Since the coefficie...
846. ...investigation for many years. A related important recent advance has been the development (for use in the He SIM) of an automated technique for restoring a three-atom ("trimer") apex to its original **state**, if the trimer breaks up. Large-area field emission sources have been of interest since the 1970s. In these devices, a high density of individual field emission sites is created on a substrate (origi...
847. ...rdheim tunneling is the wave-mechanical tunneling of an electron through an exact or rounded triangular barrier. Two basic situations are recognized: (1) when the electron is initially in a localized **state**; (2) when the electron is initially not strongly localized, and is best represented by a travelling wave. Emission from a bulk metal conduction band is a situation of the second type, and discussion...
848. ...o total electron energy "ε". At zero temperature, the Fermi–Dirac distribution function for , and for . So the ECD at 0 K, "J", is given from eq. (18) by where formula_12 is the "effective supply for **state** F", and is defined by this equation. Strictly, the lower limit of the integral should be −"K", where "K" is the Fermi energy; but if "d" is very much less than "K" (which is always the case for a met...
849. ...ibution to the integral comes from energies below "K", and it can formally be extended to –∞. Result (23) can be given a simple and useful physical interpretation by referring to Fig. 1. The electron **state** at point "F" on the diagram ("state F") is the "forwards moving state at the Fermi level" (i.e., it describes a Fermi-level electron moving normal to and towards the emitter surface). At 0 K, an elec...
850. ...nergies below "K", and it can formally be extended to –∞. Result (23) can be given a simple and useful physical interpretation by referring to Fig. 1. The electron state at point "F" on the diagram ("**state** F") is the "forwards moving state at the Fermi level" (i.e., it describes a Fermi-level electron moving normal to and towards the emitter surface). At 0 K, an electron in this state sees a barrier of...
851. ...ally be extended to –∞. Result (23) can be given a simple and useful physical interpretation by referring to Fig. 1. The electron state at point "F" on the diagram ("state F") is the "forwards moving **state** at the Fermi level" (i.e., it describes a Fermi-level electron moving normal to and towards the emitter surface). At 0 K, an electron in this state sees a barrier of unreduced height "φ", and has an...
852. ...on the diagram ("state F") is the "forwards moving state at the Fermi level" (i.e., it describes a Fermi-level electron moving normal to and towards the emitter surface). At 0 K, an electron in this **state** sees a barrier of unreduced height "φ", and has an escape probability "D" that is higher than that for any other occupied electron state. So it is convenient to write "J" as "Z""D", where the "effect...
853. ...and towards the emitter surface). At 0 K, an electron in this state sees a barrier of unreduced height "φ", and has an escape probability "D" that is higher than that for any other occupied electron **state**. So it is convenient to write "J" as "Z""D", where the "effective supply" "Z" is the current density that would have to be carried by state F inside the metal if all of the emission came out of state...
854. ...D" that is higher than that for any other occupied electron state. So it is convenient to write "J" as "Z""D", where the "effective supply" "Z" is the current density that would have to be carried by **state** F inside the metal if all of the emission came out of state F. In practice, the current density mainly comes out of a group of states close in energy to state F, most of which lie within the heavily...
855. ...state. So it is convenient to write "J" as "Z""D", where the "effective supply" "Z" is the current density that would have to be carried by state F inside the metal if all of the emission came out of **state** F. In practice, the current density mainly comes out of a group of states close in energy to state F, most of which lie within the heavily shaded area in the energy-space diagram. Since, for a free-e...
856. ...density that would have to be carried by state F inside the metal if all of the emission came out of state F. In practice, the current density mainly comes out of a group of states close in energy to **state** F, most of which lie within the heavily shaded area in the energy-space diagram. Since, for a free-electron model, the contribution to the current density is directly proportional to the area in ener...
857. ...component part of the correction factor "λ" [see, and note that "λ" is denoted by "λ" there]. There is no significant value in continuing the separate identification of "t". Probably, in the present **state** of knowledge, the best approximation for simple Fowler–Nordheim-type equation based modeling of CFE from metals is obtained by putting , , </math> → "v"("f")}}. This re-generates the Fowler–Nordheim-...
858. ...e a free-electron-like band-structure, do have surface states, are subject to field penetration and band bending, and may exhibit both internal voltage drops and statistical decoupling of the surface-**state** electron distribution from the electron distribution in the surface region of the bulk band-structure (this decoupling is known as "the Modinos effect"). In practice, the theory of the actual Fowler–...
859. ...onics products using two closely spaced exposed PCB traces. This is an effectively zero cost method of adding crude over-voltage protection to electronics products. Transils and trisils are the solid-**state** alternatives to spark gaps for lower-power applications. Neon bulbs are also used for this purpose. A triggered spark gap in an air-gap flash is used to produce photographic light flashes in the sub-...
860. ...rameter space to the left of the Paschen minimum where breakdown is promoted by increasing pressure. Current between the electrodes is limited to a small value by field emission in the non-conducting **state**. Breakdown is initiated by rapidly evaporating material from a trigger electrode or an adjacent resistive coating. Once the vacuum arc is initiated, a triggered vacuum gap is filled with conductive p...
861. ...a sealed triggered spark gap because Paschen curves are much steeper to the left of the Paschen minimum than at higher pressures. Triggered vacuum gaps are also rad hard because in the non-conducting **state** they do not contain any gas that could be ionized by radiation. They are also used as insect zappers. The two electrodes are implemented as metal lattices placed a slightly too far apart for the volt...
862. ...tric cooling Thermoelectric cooling uses the Peltier effect to create a heat flux at the junction of two different types of materials. A Peltier cooler, heater, or thermoelectric heat pump is a solid-**state** active heat pump which transfers heat from one side of the device to the other, with consumption of electrical energy, depending on the direction of the current. Such an instrument is also called a P...
863. ...rom one side of the device to the other, with consumption of electrical energy, depending on the direction of the current. Such an instrument is also called a Peltier device, Peltier heat pump, solid **state** refrigerator, or thermoelectric cooler (TEC) and occasionally a thermoelectric battery. It can be used either for heating or for cooling, although in practice the main application is cooling since he...
864. ...nventional compression-cycle systems (reverse Rankine systems using compression/expansion). Due to this lower efficiency, thermoelectric cooling is generally only used in environments where the solid-**state** nature (no moving parts), low maintenance, compact size, and orientation insensitivity outweighs pure efficiency. While lower than conventional means, efficiency can be good enough, provided: However...
865. ...e a limited range of output voltages and currents, and generally do not directly control a final device such as a lamp, solenoid, or motor. Reed switches have small leakage currents compared to solid **state** devices; this may be useful, for example, in medical devices requiring protection of a patient from tiny leakage currents. The reed is hermetically sealed and can therefore operate in almost any envi...
866. ...eed switch has very low resistance when closed, typically as low as 0.05 ohms, whereas the Hall effect sensors can be in the hundreds of ohms. A reed switch requires only two wires whereas most solid-**state** devices require three wires. A reed switch can be said to require zero power to operate it. One or more reed switches inside an electromagnetic coil constitute a reed relay. Reed relays are used when...
867. ...one brand of endoscopic capsule to switch on the power source only when the unit is removed from the sterile packaging. Reed switches may be selected for a particular sensor application when a solid-**state** device does not meet requirements such as power consumption or electrical interface compatibility. Reed switches were formerly used in the keyboards for computer terminals, where each key had a magne...
868. ...ngth, stretching out of three black hole-like portals to devour planets sacrificed to him by the Exif cult with his gravitational powers while his torso remains within an alternate dimension. In this **state**, King Ghidorah is completely invulnerable as long as his 'anchor' remains alive, and is capable of completely ignoring the laws of physics of the dimensions he invades, with his powers including inta...
869. ...torm systems as it travels. This results in the stratosphere being torn open by an unnatural hurricane of thunder, yellow lightning, tornadoes and waterspouts; a process which supplementary materials **state** start once Ghidorah takes flight, but which the film proper shows beginning as soon as Ghidorah awakens on the ground. The hurricane around Ghidorah grows more powerful over the course of the film, b...
870. ...e South Seas, (to take the Breadfruit plant from the Society Islands to the West Indies,) under the Command of Lieutenant William Bligh, 1 December 1787 – 22 October 1788 Safe 1/46, Mitchell Library, **State** Library of NSW William Noah, a silversmith convicted in London of stealing 2,000 pounds of lead, while en route to Sydney, New South Wales on the convict transport ship , recorded two such observatio...
871. ...nzburg was born to a Jewish family in Moscow on 4 October 1916— the son of an engineer, Lazar Yefimovich Ginzburg, and a doctor, Augusta Wildauer who was a graduate from the Physics Faculty of Moscow **State** University in 1938. After attending his mother's alma mater, he defended his qualifications of the candidate's ("Kandidat Nauk") dissertation in 1940, and his comprehensive thesis for the doctor's ("...
872. ...he was very active in Jewish life, especially in Russia, where he served on the board of directors of the Russian Jewish Congress. He is also well known for fighting anti-Semitism and supporting the **state** of Israel. In the 2000s (decade), Ginzburg was politically active, supporting the Russian liberal opposition and human rights movement. He defended Igor Sutyagin and Valentin Danilov against charges...
873. ...e research on liquid helium and other quantum fluids, but Ginzburg allowed them to go a step further. Ginzburg introduced the concept of an order parameter, which would allow them to characterize the **state** of the superconductor. To do this, they derived a complex set of equations that would allow them to describe the behavior of the superconductor. These equations provided a model from which researcher...
874. ...ations that would allow them to describe the behavior of the superconductor. These equations provided a model from which researchers can understand the transition between a normal and superconducting **state**, as well as be able to predict various properties of other superconductors. Using these equations, they were also able to introduce the Ginzburg-Landau Parameter. This parameter used a separate set o...
875. ...in the Novodevichy Cemetery in Moscow, the resting place of many famous politicians, writers and scientists of Russia. The first wife (in 1937–1946) is a graduate of the Faculty of Physics of Moscow **State** University (1938) Olga Ivanovna Zamsha (born 1915, Yeysk), candidate of physical and mathematical sciences (1945), associate professor at MEPhI (1949–1985), author of the “Collection of problems on g...
876. ...–1985), author of the “Collection of problems on general physics" (with co-authors, 1968, 1972, 1975). The second wife (since 1946) is a graduate of the Faculty of Mechanics and Mathematics of Moscow **State** University, experimental physicist Nina Ivanovna Ginzburg (née Ermakova) (October 2, 1922 — May 19, 2019). Daughter — Irina Vitalievna Dorman (born 1939), graduate of the Faculty of Physics of Moscow...
877. ...University, experimental physicist Nina Ivanovna Ginzburg (née Ermakova) (October 2, 1922 — May 19, 2019). Daughter — Irina Vitalievna Dorman (born 1939), graduate of the Faculty of Physics of Moscow **State** University (1961), candidate of physical and mathematical sciences, historian of science (her husband is a cosmophysicist, doctor of physical and mathematical sciences Leib (Lev) Isaakovich Dorman)....
878. ...a cosmophysicist, doctor of physical and mathematical sciences Leib (Lev) Isaakovich Dorman). Granddaughter — Victoria Lvovna Dorman, American physicist, graduate of the physics department of Moscow **State** University and Princeton University, deputy dean for academic affairs at the Princeton School of Engineering and Applied Science; her husband is physicist and writer Mikhail Petrov. Great cousin — Ma...
879. ...of physicians: Aleksey Abrikosov and Fani Abrikosova, née Wulf. His mother was Jewish. After graduating from high school in 1943, Abrikosov began studying energy technology. He graduated from Moscow **State** University in 1948. From 1948 to 1965, he worked at the Institute for Physical Problems of the USSR Academy of Sciences, where he received his Ph.D. in 1951 for the theory of thermal diffusion in pla...
880. ...0, and in 2001, to be a foreign member of the Royal Society. From 1965 to 1988, he worked at the Landau Institute for Theoretical Physics (USSR Academy of Sciences). He has been a professor at Moscow **State** University since 1965. In addition, he held tenure at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology from 1972 to 1976, and at the Moscow Institute of Steel and Alloys from 1976 to 1991. He served as...
881. ...he accompanying arrangement of magnetic flux lines is called the Abrikosov vortex lattice. Together with Lev Gor'kov and Igor Dzyaloshinskii, Abrikosov has written an iconic book on theoretical solid-**state** physics, which has been used to train physicists in the field for decades. From 1991 until his retirement, he worked at Argonne National Laboratory in the U.S. state of Illinois. Abrikosov was an Arg...
882. ...iconic book on theoretical solid-state physics, which has been used to train physicists in the field for decades. From 1991 until his retirement, he worked at Argonne National Laboratory in the U.S. **state** of Illinois. Abrikosov was an Argonne Distinguished Scientist at the Condensed Matter Theory Group in Argonne's Materials Science Division. When he received the Nobel Prize, his research was focused...
883. ...materials that change their resistance to electrical flow under the influence of a magnetic field. Abrikosov was awarded the Lenin Prize in 1966, the Fritz London Memorial Prize in 1972, and the USSR **State** Prize in 1982. In 1989 he received the Landau Prize from the Academy of Sciences, Russia. Two years later, in 1991, Abrikosov was awarded the Sony Corporation's John Bardeen Award. The same year he w...
884. ...ectricity. Southwick's 1882 and 1883 articles on how electrocution could be a replacement for hanging, using a restraint similar to a dental chair (an electric chair) caught the attention of New York **State** politicians who, following a series of botched hangings, were desperately seeking an alternative. An 1886 commission appointed by New York governor David B. Hill, which including Southwick, recommend...
885. ...s country by Geo. Westinghouse". Soon after the execution by electricity bill passed in June 1888, Edison was asked by a New York government official what means would be the best way to implement the **state**'s new form of execution. "Hire out your criminals as linemen to the New York electric lighting companies" was Edison's tongue-in-cheek answer. As the number of deaths attributed to high voltage light...
886. ...eeded for the executions as well as design the electric chair. Brown turned down the job of designing the chair but did agree to fulfill the contract to supply the necessary electrical equipment. The **state** refused to pay up front, and Brown apparently turned to Edison Electric as well as Thomson-Houston Electric Company to help obtaining the equipment. This became another behind-the-scenes maneuver to...
887. ...the appeal, William Bourke Cockran, had no connection to the case but did have connection to the Westinghouse company, obviously paying for his services. During fact-finding hearings held around the **state** beginning on July 9 in New York City, Cockran used his considerable skills as a cross-examiner and orator to attack Brown, Edison, and their supporters. His strategy was to show that Brown had falsif...
888. ...llusion with Thomson-Houston and Edison Electric. The majority of the letters were correspondence between Brown and Thomson-Houston on the topic of acquiring the three Westinghouse generators for the **state** of New York as well as using one of them in an efficiency test. They also showed that Brown had received $5,000 from Edison Electric to purchase the surplus Westinghouse generators from Thomson-Houst...
889. ...s Westinghouse generators from Thomson-Houston. Further Edison involvement was contained in letters from Edison treasurer Hastings asking Brown to send anti-AC pamphlets to all the legislators in the **state** of Missouri (at the company's expense), Brown requesting that a letter of recommendation from Thomas Edison be sent to Scranton, Pennsylvania, as well as Edison and Arthur Kennelly coaching Brown in...
890. ...work experimenting with models of such structures, respectively. The results of the experiments were published in December 2017 and, together with the theoretical work, lead to the discovery of a new **state**, a correlation-driven Weyl semimetal. The team dubbed this new quantum material Weyl-Kondo semimetal. Potassium sodium tartrate Potassium sodium tartrate tetrahydrate, also known as Rochelle salt, is...
891. ...oubled the yield of gasoline, which helped alleviate the shortages. Synthetic dye was discovered by English chemist William Henry Perkin in 1856. At the time, chemistry was still in a quite primitive **state**; it was still a difficult proposition to determine the arrangement of the elements in compounds and chemical industry was still in its infancy. Perkin's accidental discovery was that aniline could be...
892. ...adulthood. However, her genetic tampering soon loses its effect when Magneto reactivates his powers since the very use of his powers causes his genetic sequence to realign and "reset" to its original **state**. Magneto is eventually restored to adulthood, but to his physical prime rather than his older, chronological age, by the alien Shi'ar agent Erik the Red. Magneto later gathers a new Brotherhood of Ev...
893. ...being apologetic and appreciative for what he'd done, Magneto leaves Utopia for nearby Mount Tamalpais in Marin County. In a final bid to gain their trust, Magneto enters a deep meditative catatonic **state** to focus his powers at an interstellar distance and reverse the path of Breakworld's "Earth-destroyer" Metal Bullet in which Kitty Pryde is trapped. Magneto had encountered the bullet earlier while w...
894. ...SHIELD but it turned out to be an attempt by him to infiltrate the organization. In 2014, Magneto starred in his first ongoing series, which was written by Cullen Bunn. Feeling disenfranchised by the **state** of mutant affairs, Magneto decides to venture off on his own to fight for mutantkind's survival on his own terms. The series has been cancelled, with issue #21 being its last issue, which sees Magnet...
895. ...st in disguise as it was part of an ambush by Viper and the Femme Fatales. Magneto is shown to be a prisoner of Viper and the Femme Fatales where Mindblast and Sapphire Styx put Magneto in a weakened **state**. When Kitty Pryde destroyed the psychic-enhancement equipment on Mindblast's back, Magneto recovers and starts to take revenge on Mindblast until Kitty suggests he leaves her and helps to stop the ro...
896. ...decrease in entropy as one adds energy to the system. The definition of thermodynamic temperature is a function of the change in the system's entropy under reversible heat transfer : Entropy being a **state** function, the integral of over any cyclical process is zero. For a system in which the entropy is purely a function of the system's energy , the temperature can be defined as: Equivalently, thermodyn...
897. ...ing the emergent property. In the canonical ensemble, the temperature is fixed and energy is the emergent property. This leads to ( refers to microstates): Following the previous example, we choose a **state** with two levels and two particles. This leads to microstates , , , and . The resulting values for , , and all increase with and never need to enter a negative temperature regime. The previous example...
898. ...ield will have a different energy from those that are anti-parallel to it. In the absence of a magnetic field, such a two-spin system would have maximum entropy when half the atoms are in the spin-up **state** and half are in the spin-down state, and so one would expect to find the system with close to an equal distribution of spins. Upon application of a magnetic field, some of the atoms will tend to alig...
899. ...om those that are anti-parallel to it. In the absence of a magnetic field, such a two-spin system would have maximum entropy when half the atoms are in the spin-up state and half are in the spin-down **state**, and so one would expect to find the system with close to an equal distribution of spins. Upon application of a magnetic field, some of the atoms will tend to align so as to minimize the energy of th...
900. ...al distribution of spins. Upon application of a magnetic field, some of the atoms will tend to align so as to minimize the energy of the system, thus slightly more atoms should be in the lower-energy **state** (for the purposes of this example we will assume the spin-down state is the lower-energy state). It is possible to add energy to the spin system using radio frequency techniques. This causes atoms to...
901. ...of the atoms will tend to align so as to minimize the energy of the system, thus slightly more atoms should be in the lower-energy state (for the purposes of this example we will assume the spin-down **state** is the lower-energy state). It is possible to add energy to the spin system using radio frequency techniques. This causes atoms to "flip" from spin-down to spin-up. Since we started with over half th...
902. ...align so as to minimize the energy of the system, thus slightly more atoms should be in the lower-energy state (for the purposes of this example we will assume the spin-down state is the lower-energy **state**). It is possible to add energy to the spin system using radio frequency techniques. This causes atoms to "flip" from spin-down to spin-up. Since we started with over half the atoms in the spin-down s...
903. ...e). It is possible to add energy to the spin system using radio frequency techniques. This causes atoms to "flip" from spin-down to spin-up. Since we started with over half the atoms in the spin-down **state**, this initially drives the system towards a 50/50 mixture, so the entropy is increasing, corresponding to a positive temperature. However, at some point, more than half of the spins are in the spin-u...
904. ...o as a population inversion. The Hamiltonian for a single mode of a luminescent radiation field at frequency is The density operator in the grand canonical ensemble is For the system to have a ground **state**, the trace to converge, and the density operator to be generally meaningful, must be positive semidefinite. So if , and is negative semidefinite, then must itself be negative, implying a negative tem...
905. ...ing the Bose-Hubbard Hamiltonian from . Performing this transformation adiabatically while keeping the atoms in the Mott insulator regime, it is possible to go from a low entropy positive temperature **state** to a low entropy negative temperature state. In the negative temperature state, the atoms macroscopically occupy the maximum momentum state of the lattice. The negative temperature ensembles equilibr...
906. ...orming this transformation adiabatically while keeping the atoms in the Mott insulator regime, it is possible to go from a low entropy positive temperature state to a low entropy negative temperature **state**. In the negative temperature state, the atoms macroscopically occupy the maximum momentum state of the lattice. The negative temperature ensembles equilibrated and showed long lifetimes in an anti-tr...
907. ...cally while keeping the atoms in the Mott insulator regime, it is possible to go from a low entropy positive temperature state to a low entropy negative temperature state. In the negative temperature **state**, the atoms macroscopically occupy the maximum momentum state of the lattice. The negative temperature ensembles equilibrated and showed long lifetimes in an anti-trapping harmonic potential. The two-...
908. ...t is possible to go from a low entropy positive temperature state to a low entropy negative temperature state. In the negative temperature state, the atoms macroscopically occupy the maximum momentum **state** of the lattice. The negative temperature ensembles equilibrated and showed long lifetimes in an anti-trapping harmonic potential. The two-dimensional systems of vortices confined to a finite area can...
909. ...omic spectra where, Absorption lines are typically classified by the nature of the quantum mechanical change induced in the molecule or atom. Rotational lines, for instance, occur when the rotational **state** of a molecule is changed. Rotational lines are typically found in the microwave spectral region. Vibrational lines correspond to changes in the vibrational state of the molecule and are typically fou...
910. ...r instance, occur when the rotational state of a molecule is changed. Rotational lines are typically found in the microwave spectral region. Vibrational lines correspond to changes in the vibrational **state** of the molecule and are typically found in the infrared region. Electronic lines correspond to a change in the electronic state of an atom or molecule and are typically found in the visible and ultra...
911. ...tral region. Vibrational lines correspond to changes in the vibrational state of the molecule and are typically found in the infrared region. Electronic lines correspond to a change in the electronic **state** of an atom or molecule and are typically found in the visible and ultraviolet region. X-ray absorptions are associated with the excitation of inner shell electrons in atoms. These changes can also be...
912. ...temperature of the substance and the quantum mechanical interaction between the radiation and the absorber. This interaction is quantified by the transition moment and depends on the particular lower **state** the transition starts from, and the upper state it is connected to. The width of absorption lines may be determined by the spectrometer used to record it. A spectrometer has an inherent limit on how...
913. ...hanical interaction between the radiation and the absorber. This interaction is quantified by the transition moment and depends on the particular lower state the transition starts from, and the upper **state** it is connected to. The width of absorption lines may be determined by the spectrometer used to record it. A spectrometer has an inherent limit on how narrow a line it can resolve and so the observed...
914. ...than fusion. This was due to the coulomb scattering cross section being larger than the fusion cross section. In response they built POPS, a machine with a wire cage, where ions are moving at steady-**state**, or oscillating around. Such plasma can be at local thermodynamic equilibrium. The ion oscillation is predicted to maintain the equilibrium distribution of the ions at all times, which would eliminat...
915. ...invasive stereo-EEG recordings) resective brain surgery that involves removing brain tissue with the ictal focus is generally preferred, since this may potentially lead to a curative outcome (i.e. a **state** where no seizures happen anymore). In cases where resective surgery is not an option, other neurosurgical options such as responsive neurostimulation (RNS), DBS, or vagus nerve stimulation may be con...
916. ...So far, the authors have not been able to demonstrate the occurrence of a clear Meissner phase and the vanishing of the material's resistance. In 2018, Dev Kumar Thapa and Anshu Pandey from the Solid **State** and Structural Chemistry Unit of the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore claimed the observation of superconductivity at ambient pressure and room temperature in films and pellets of a nanostructu...
917. ...r at low temperatures in a certain manner first described in 1956 by American physicist Leon Cooper. Cooper showed that an arbitrarily small attraction between electrons in a metal can cause a paired **state** of electrons to have a lower energy than the Fermi energy, which implies that the pair is bound. In conventional superconductors, this attraction is due to the electron–phonon interaction. The Cooper...
918. ...ectrons to have a lower energy than the Fermi energy, which implies that the pair is bound. In conventional superconductors, this attraction is due to the electron–phonon interaction. The Cooper pair **state** is responsible for superconductivity, as described in the BCS theory developed by John Bardeen, Leon Cooper, and John Schrieffer for which they shared the 1972 Nobel Prize. Although Cooper pairing is...
919. ...r (0 or 1) so it is a composite boson. This means the wave functions are symmetric under particle interchange. Therefore, unlike electrons, multiple Cooper pairs are allowed to be in the same quantum **state**, which is responsible for the phenomenon of superconductivity. The BCS theory is also applicable to other fermion systems, such as helium-3. Indeed, Cooper pairing is responsible for the superfluidit...
920. ...eratures. In 2008 it was proposed that pairs of bosons in an optical lattice may be similar to Cooper pairs. The tendency for all the Cooper pairs in a body to "condense" into the same ground quantum **state** is responsible for the peculiar properties of superconductivity. Cooper originally considered only the case of an isolated pair's formation in a metal. When one considers the more realistic state of...
921. ...tum state is responsible for the peculiar properties of superconductivity. Cooper originally considered only the case of an isolated pair's formation in a metal. When one considers the more realistic **state** of many electronic pair formations, as is elucidated in the full BCS theory, one finds that the pairing opens a gap in the continuous spectrum of allowed energy states of the electrons, meaning that...
922. ...sorption edge, and analysis of these modulations (called the X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) or near-edge X-ray absorption fine structure (NEXAFS)) reveals information about the chemical **state** and local symmetry of that element. At incident beam energies which are much higher than the absorption edge, photoelectron scattering causes "ringing" modulations called the extended X-ray absorptio...
923. ...ransmission X-ray microscopy (STXM). Imaging can be combined with spectroscopy such as X-ray fluorescence or X-ray absorption spectroscopy in order to map a sample's chemical composition or oxidation **state** with sub-micron resolution. Other imaging techniques include coherent diffraction imaging. Similar optics can be employed for photolithography for MEMS structures can use a synchrotron beam as part o...
924. ...h the absorption of two photons, and subsequent fluorescence resulting from the radiative decay of the excited level is observed. TALIF is capable of providing precise measurements of absolute ground **state** atomic densities, such as those of hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen. However, achieving such precision necessitates appropriate calibration methods, which can be accomplished through titration or a mor...
925. ...brought into contact with the side of the disc opposite to the laser, similar to Floptical drives, but not the same. During reading, a laser projects a beam on the disk and, according to the magnetic **state** of the surface, the reflected light varies due to the magneto-optic Kerr effect. During recording, laser power is increased to heat the material to the Curie point in a single spot. This enables an e...
926. ...ting a proton to a neutron. Nuclei which decay by positron emission may also decay by electron capture. For low-energy decays, electron capture is energetically favored by 2"m""c" = , since the final **state** has an electron removed rather than a positron added. As the energy of the decay goes up, so does the branching fraction of positron emission. However, if the energy difference is less than 2"m""c",...
927. ...by the ideas of the English experimenters John Bevis and William Watson, who was in correspondence with Benjamin Franklin's group in Philadelphia. They jointly devised a theory of a single-fluid/two-**state**: virtually, the super-abundance or absence of one fluid, which Watson later termed positive and negative. These ideas fitted the facts slightly better than the two-fluid concept, especially after the...
928. ...pocalypse. During the encounter, Magneto, another member of The Twelve, discovered that he could use Lorna to tap into the Earth's magnetic field with incredible force, effectively hiding the reduced **state** of his powers at the time. After Apocalypse was defeated, Polaris returned to Genosha with Magneto to supply him with power and help him keep order. She believed she was doing it for the greater good...
929. ..._3 is a measure of the local density of superconducting electrons formula_4 analogous to a quantum mechanical wave function. While formula_5 is nonzero below a phase transition into a superconducting **state**, no direct interpretation of this parameter was given in the original paper. Assuming smallness of formula_6 and smallness of its gradients, the free energy density has the form of a field theory and...
930. ...mogeneous superconductor where there is no superconducting current and the equation for "ψ" simplifies to: formula_26 This equation has a trivial solution: . This corresponds to the normal conducting **state**, that is for temperatures above the superconducting transition temperature, . Below the superconducting transition temperature, the above equation is expected to have a non-trivial solution (that is...
931. ...inzburg–Landau parameter. It has been proposed by Landau that Type I superconductors are those with 0 < "κ" < 1/, and Type II superconductors those with "κ" > 1/. The phase transition from the normal **state** is of second order for Type II superconductors, taking into account fluctuations, as demonstrated by Dasgupta and Halperin, while for Type I superconductors it is of first order, as demonstrated by H...
932. ...In the original paper Ginzburg and Landau observed the existence of two types of superconductors depending  on the energy of the interface between the normal and superconducting states. The Meissner **state** breaks down when the applied magnetic field is too large. Superconductors can be divided into two classes according to how this breakdown occurs. In Type I superconductors, superconductivity is abrup...
933. ...perconductors, superconductivity is abruptly destroyed when the strength of the applied field rises above a critical value "H". Depending on the geometry of the sample, one may obtain an intermediate **state** consisting of a baroque pattern of regions of normal material carrying a magnetic field mixed with regions of superconducting material containing no field. In Type II superconductors, raising the app...
934. ...material carrying a magnetic field mixed with regions of superconducting material containing no field. In Type II superconductors, raising the applied field past a critical value "H" leads to a mixed **state** (also known as the vortex state) in which an increasing amount of magnetic flux penetrates the material, but there remains no resistance to the flow of electric current as long as the current is not...
935. ...ld mixed with regions of superconducting material containing no field. In Type II superconductors, raising the applied field past a critical value "H" leads to a mixed state (also known as the vortex **state**) in which an increasing amount of magnetic flux penetrates the material, but there remains no resistance to the flow of electric current as long as the current is not too large. At a second critical...
936. ...e material, but there remains no resistance to the flow of electric current as long as the current is not too large. At a second critical field strength "H", superconductivity is destroyed. The mixed **state** is actually caused by vortices in the electronic superfluid, sometimes called fluxons because the flux carried by these vortices is quantized. Most pure elemental superconductors, except niobium and...
937. ...it to the density of the Abrikosov vortecies. One can also show that the solutions are bounded; one must have formula_115. In particle physics, any quantum field theory with a unique classical vacuum **state** and a potential energy with a degenerate critical point is called a Landau–Ginzburg theory. The generalization to "N" = (2,2) supersymmetric theories in 2 spacetime dimensions was proposed by Cumrun...
938. ...sis advisor. Cooper spent one year as a postdoctoral researcher at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. New Jersey. He then taught at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign and Ohio **State** University before joining Brown University in 1958. He would remain at Brown for the rest of his career. Cooper founded Brown's Institute for Brain and Neural Systems in 1973, becoming its first dire...
939. ...gime despite their growing tyranny. "(See the video games section for the continuation of his story in this universe.)" A potential future incarnation of Billy Batson is introduced during the "Future **State**" event. This iteration of the character shares a similar background to their DC Rebirth counterpart, following a similar history until a point of divergence during their time as a student at the Teen...
940. ...ance to investigate sub-cellular environments. Biofluorescence describes the absorption of ultraviolet or visible light and the sub sequential emission of photons at a lower energy level (S_1 excited **state** relaxes to S_0 ground state) by intrinsically fluorescent proteins or by synthetic fluorescent molecules covalently attached to a biomarker of interest. Biomarkers are molecules indicative or disease...
941. ...ular environments. Biofluorescence describes the absorption of ultraviolet or visible light and the sub sequential emission of photons at a lower energy level (S_1 excited state relaxes to S_0 ground **state**) by intrinsically fluorescent proteins or by synthetic fluorescent molecules covalently attached to a biomarker of interest. Biomarkers are molecules indicative or disease or distress and are a typic...
942. ...stitial fluid, aqueous humor, or sputum. Stimulating light excites an electron, raising energy to an unstable level. This instability is unfavorable, so the energized electron is returned to a stable **state** almost as immediately as it becomes unstable. The time delay between excitation and re-emission that occurs when returning to the stable ground state causes the photon that is re-emitted to be a diff...
943. ...so the energized electron is returned to a stable state almost as immediately as it becomes unstable. The time delay between excitation and re-emission that occurs when returning to the stable ground **state** causes the photon that is re-emitted to be a different color (i.e. it relaxes to a lower energy and thus the photon emitted is at a shorter wavelength, as governed by the Plank-Einstein relationformu...
944. ...provider of excitation energy. The difference here lies in the relative stability of the energized electron. Unlike with biofluorescence, here the electron retains stability in the forbidden triplet **state** (unpaired spins), with a longer delay in emitting light resulting in the effect that it continues to “glow-in-the-dark” even long after the stimulating light source has been removed. A biolaser is wh...
945. ...idth will drop well below picometers (pm). Biophotonic applications, which make use of this characteristics are Raman spectroscopy (requires linewidth below cm-1) and spectroscopic gas sensing. Solid-**state** lasers are lasers based on solid-state gain media such as crystals or glasses doped with rare earth or transition metal ions, or semiconductor lasers. (Although semiconductor lasers are of course als...
946. ...m). Biophotonic applications, which make use of this characteristics are Raman spectroscopy (requires linewidth below cm-1) and spectroscopic gas sensing. Solid-state lasers are lasers based on solid-**state** gain media such as crystals or glasses doped with rare earth or transition metal ions, or semiconductor lasers. (Although semiconductor lasers are of course also solid-state devices, they are often n...
947. ...are lasers based on solid-state gain media such as crystals or glasses doped with rare earth or transition metal ions, or semiconductor lasers. (Although semiconductor lasers are of course also solid-**state** devices, they are often not included in the term solid-state lasers.) Ion-doped solid-state lasers (also sometimes called doped insulator lasers) can be made in the form of bulk lasers, fiber lasers,...
948. ...r glasses doped with rare earth or transition metal ions, or semiconductor lasers. (Although semiconductor lasers are of course also solid-state devices, they are often not included in the term solid-**state** lasers.) Ion-doped solid-state lasers (also sometimes called doped insulator lasers) can be made in the form of bulk lasers, fiber lasers, or other types of waveguide lasers. Solid-state lasers may g...
949. ...or transition metal ions, or semiconductor lasers. (Although semiconductor lasers are of course also solid-state devices, they are often not included in the term solid-state lasers.) Ion-doped solid-**state** lasers (also sometimes called doped insulator lasers) can be made in the form of bulk lasers, fiber lasers, or other types of waveguide lasers. Solid-state lasers may generate output powers between a...
950. ...e term solid-state lasers.) Ion-doped solid-state lasers (also sometimes called doped insulator lasers) can be made in the form of bulk lasers, fiber lasers, or other types of waveguide lasers. Solid-**state** lasers may generate output powers between a few milliwatts and (in high-power versions) many kilowatts. Many advanced applications in biophotonics require individually selectable light at multiple wa...
951. ...ices can be paired in "series" with another diode to provide low capacitance as required in communication circuits. A Trisil is a type of thyristor surge protection device (TSPD), a specialized solid-**state** electronic device used in crowbar circuits to protect against overvoltage conditions. A SIDACtor is another thyristor type device used for similar protective purposes. These thyristor-family devices...
952. ...plications that limit fault currents, inductors are more commonly known as electrical line reactors or a choke. Line reactors can prevent overvoltage trips, increase the reliability and life of solid **state** devices, and reduce nuisance trips. Metal marshalling cabinet panels can allow surge protection device (SPD) failures to be contained remotely from digital devices and electrical controllers. Direct...
953. ...eight pulled the armature back up to its resting position, resulting in a "clack" sound. Thus, as the telegraph key at the sending end makes and breaks the contact, the sounder echoes the up and down **state** of the key. It was important that a sounder make a sound both when the circuit was broken and when it was restored. This was necessary for the operator clearly to distinguish the long and short keypr...
954. ...criticised by a December 2000 technical report commissioned by NASA. , EPS claim to have met the criticisms of the NASA report, and to have demonstrated that their model is mathematically sound, and **state** that they are ready to proceed with development of their technology. Classical electromagnetism Classical electromagnetism or classical electrodynamics is a branch of theoretical physics that studies...
955. ...physics, geophysics, surface physics, and physical chemistry. The Bennett pinch is named after him. Born in Findlay, Ohio, Bennett attended Carnegie Institute of Technology from 1920 to 1922 and Ohio **State** University; the University of Wisconsin, Sc.M. in physical chemistry, 1926; and the University of Michigan, Ph.D. in physics, 1928. Bennett was elected to a National Research Fellowship in Physics an...
956. ...n physics, 1928. Bennett was elected to a National Research Fellowship in Physics and in 1928 and 1929 studied at the California Institute of Technology. In 1930 he joined the Physics faculty at Ohio **State**. During the World War II era, he served as an officer in the United States Army and developed aircraft equipment. Following military service, Bennett worked at the National Bureau of Standards, the U...
957. ...tt worked at the National Bureau of Standards, the University of Arkansas, and the United States Naval Research Laboratory. In 1961, he was appointed Burlington Professor of Physics at North Carolina **State** University (emeritus in 1976). Bennett held 67 patents. Bennett made scientific history in the 1930s pioneering studies in plasma physics, the study of gases ionized by high-voltage electricity. Benn...
958. ...der-Man, Janet leads the group and keeps one of the team from being trapped in limbo. During the superhuman Civil War, Janet van Dyne is pro-registration and suggests that they push forward the fifty-**state** initiative to get things under control after Ragnarok (the cyborg clone of Thor) kills Bill Foster, an event which upsets her greatly. She also becomes the host of a pro-registration reality TV show...
959. ...the host of a pro-registration reality TV show called "America's Newest Superhero". Janet van Dyne is selected as a member of the Mighty Avengers by Carol Danvers and Tony Stark as part of the Fifty **State** Initiative. During its attempt to destroy humanity, she correctly determines that Ultron has taken over Iron Man's body. When alien symbiotes attack New York, Janet uses a refined growth formula give...
960. ...Janet sees through the deception. Although the inversion is undone, the two separate for good when Alex is one of three characters (the other two being Iron Man and Sabretooth) to remain in their new **state**. As part of the "All-New, All-Different Marvel", Wasp confronts Wolverine (X-23) and her clones called The Sisters when they try to steal an Ant-Man suit. Wolverine explains what they are doing, so W...
961. ...Queen. She is motivated to form the Revengers while her twin brother Big Man joins a government reform team. An alternate universe variant of Janet Van Dyne / Wasp who became trapped in her shrunken **state** appears in "All-New Wolverine" #34. An alternate universe variant of Janet van Dyne / Wasp from Earth-1610 appears in Ultimate Marvel. This version is an insect-like mutant and member of the Ultimate...
962. ...continuous current mode. However, unlike these converters, it can also operate in "discontinuous voltage mode" (the voltage across the capacitor drops to zero during the commutation cycle). In steady **state**, the energy stored in each inductor has to remain the same at the beginning and at the end of a commutation cycle. The energy in an inductor is given by: formula_1 This implies that the current throu...
963. ...rent through an inductor is related to the voltage across it: formula_2 it can be seen that the average value of each inductor's voltage over a commutation period has to be zero to satisfy the steady-**state** requirements. (Another way to see this is to recognize that the average voltage across any inductor must be zero lest its current rise without limit.) If we consider that the capacitors "C" and "C" a...
964. ...t rise without limit.) If we consider that the capacitors "C" and "C" are large enough for the voltage ripple across them to be negligible, the inductor voltages become: The converter operates in "on **state**" from formula_7 to formula_8 ("D" is the duty cycle), and in "off state" from "D·T" to "T" (that is, during a period equal to formula_9). The average values of "V" and "V" are therefore: formula_10 f...
965. ...e large enough for the voltage ripple across them to be negligible, the inductor voltages become: The converter operates in "on state" from formula_7 to formula_8 ("D" is the duty cycle), and in "off **state**" from "D·T" to "T" (that is, during a period equal to formula_9). The average values of "V" and "V" are therefore: formula_10 formula_11 As both average voltage have to be zero to satisfy the steady-...
966. ..." from "D·T" to "T" (that is, during a period equal to formula_9). The average values of "V" and "V" are therefore: formula_10 formula_11 As both average voltage have to be zero to satisfy the steady-**state** conditions, using the last equation we can write: formula_12 So the average voltage across L becomes: formula_13 Which can be written as: formula_14 It can be seen that this relation is the same as t...
967. ...tifier filter provides continuous voltage. If this inductor is too small or below the "critical inductance", then the inductor current slope will be discontinuous where the current goes to zero. This **state** of operation is usually not studied in much depth as it is generally not used beyond a demonstrating of why the minimum inductance is crucial, although it may occur when maintaining a standby voltage...
968. ...the junction is formula_4, then the energy difference between the two superconductors is formula_5, since each Cooper pair has twice the charge of one electron. The Schrödinger equation for this two-**state** quantum system is therefore: formula_6 where the constant formula_7 is a characteristic of the junction. To solve the above equation, first calculate the time derivative of the order parameter in sup...
969. ...lved to formula_52. The energy increase in the junction is equal to the work done on the junction: This shows that the change of energy in the Josephson junction depends only on the initial and final **state** of the junction and not the path. Therefore, the energy stored in a Josephson junction is a state function, which can be defined as: Here formula_55 is a characteristic parameter of the Josephson jun...
970. ...This shows that the change of energy in the Josephson junction depends only on the initial and final state of the junction and not the path. Therefore, the energy stored in a Josephson junction is a **state** function, which can be defined as: Here formula_55 is a characteristic parameter of the Josephson junction, named the Josephson Energy. It is related to the Josephson Inductance by formula_56. An alt...
971. ...uctor it is attached to. Thermocouples involve two wires, each of a different material, that are electrically joined in a region of unknown temperature. The loose ends are measured in an open-circuit **state** (without any current, formula_7). Although the materials' Seebeck coefficients formula_5 are nonlinearly temperature dependent and different for the two materials, the open-circuit condition means th...
972. ...t conduction law, and the second term shows the energy carried by currents. The third term, formula_29, is the heat added from an external source (if applicable). If the material has reached a steady **state**, the charge and temperature distributions are stable, so formula_30 and formula_31. Using these facts and the second Thomson relation (see below), the heat equation can be simplified to formula_32 Th...
973. ...t term includes both Peltier (formula_33 at junction) and Thomson (formula_33 in thermal gradient) effects. Combined with the Seebeck equation for formula_20, this can be used to solve for the steady-**state** voltage and temperature profiles in a complicated system. If the material is not in a steady state, a complete description needs to include dynamic effects such as relating to electrical capacitance,...
974. ...effects. Combined with the Seebeck equation for formula_20, this can be used to solve for the steady-state voltage and temperature profiles in a complicated system. If the material is not in a steady **state**, a complete description needs to include dynamic effects such as relating to electrical capacitance, inductance and heat capacity. The thermoelectric effects lie beyond the scope of equilibrium therm...
975. ...voir to the cold reservoir would need to be prevented by a specifically matching voltage difference maintained by the electric reservoirs, and the electric current would need to be zero. For a steady **state**, there must be at least some heat transfer or some non-zero electric current. The two modes of energy transfer, as heat and by electric current, can be distinguished when there are three distinct bod...
976. ...aring a plane to a bird just because they both have wings and a tail. The fact is that biological neural cognitive systems are many orders of magnitude more energy- and compute-efficient than current **state**-of-the-art AI and neuromorphic engineering is an attempt to narrow this gap by inspiring from the brain's mechanism just like many engineering designs have bio-inspired features. Significant ethical...
977. ...particle-beam weapons. Energy that would otherwise be focused on the target spreads out and the beam becomes less effective: Plasma weapons fire a beam, bolt, or stream of plasma, which is an excited **state** of matter consisting of atomic electrons and nuclei, and free electrons if ionized, or other particles if pinched. The MARAUDER ("Magnetically Accelerated Ring to Achieve Ultra-high Directed-Energy a...
978. ...t Germany in the 1960s, in an effort to avoid international condemnation for arresting and interrogating people for holding politically incorrect views or for performing actions deemed hostile by the **state** the state security service, the Stasi, attempted alternative methods of repression which could paralyze people without imprisoning them. One such alternative method was called decomposition (transl....
979. ...in the 1960s, in an effort to avoid international condemnation for arresting and interrogating people for holding politically incorrect views or for performing actions deemed hostile by the state the **state** security service, the Stasi, attempted alternative methods of repression which could paralyze people without imprisoning them. One such alternative method was called decomposition (transl. Zersetzung...
980. ...essing domestic "hostile-negative" forces. Some of the victims of this method suffered from cancer and claimed that they had also been targeted with directed X-rays. In addition, when the East German **state** collapsed, powerful X-ray equipment was found in prisons without there being any apparent reason to justify its presence. In 1999, the modern German state was investigating the possibility that this...
981. ...ed X-rays. In addition, when the East German state collapsed, powerful X-ray equipment was found in prisons without there being any apparent reason to justify its presence. In 1999, the modern German **state** was investigating the possibility that this X-ray equipment was being used as weaponry and that it was a deliberate policy of the Stasi to attempt to give prisoners radiation poisoning, and thereby c...
982. ...essment concluding that the syndrome is not the result of "a sustained global campaign by a hostile power." Foreign involvement was ruled out in 976 cases of the 1,000 reviewed. In February 2022, the **State** Department released a report by the JASON Advisory Group, which stated that it was highly unlikely that a directed-energy attack had caused the health incidents. The cause of Havana syndrome remains...
983. ...nces and repel at short distances. In particular, the potential energy between vortices is minimized at a critical distance. As a consequence there is a conjectured new phase called the semi-Meissner **state**, in which vortices are separated by the critical distance. When the applied flux is too small for the entire superconductor to be filled with a lattice of vortices separated by the critical distance,...
984. ...pplied flux is too small for the entire superconductor to be filled with a lattice of vortices separated by the critical distance, then there are large regions of type I superconductivity, a Meissner **state**, separating these domains. Experimental confirmation for this conjecture has arrived recently in MgB experiments at 4.2 Kelvin. The authors found that there are indeed regimes with a much greater den...
985. ...found a variation of order 50%, in line with the idea that vortices assemble into domains where they may be separated by the critical distance. The term type-1.5 superconductivity was coined for this **state**. Magnesium diboride was synthesized and its structure confirmed in 1953. The simplest synthesis involves high temperature reaction between boron and magnesium powders. Formation begins at 650 °C; how...
986. ...critical current ("J") in magnetic field is enhanced greatly (approx double at 4.2 K) by doping with ZrB. Even small amounts of doping lead both bands into the type II regime and so no semi-Meissner **state** may be expected. MgB is a multi-band superconductor, that is each Fermi surface has different superconducting energy gap. For MgB, sigma bond of boron is strong, and it induces large s-wave supercond...
987. ...cs. Superconducting magnet A superconducting magnet is an electromagnet made from coils of superconducting wire. They must be cooled to cryogenic temperatures during operation. In its superconducting **state** the wire has no electrical resistance and therefore can conduct much larger electric currents than ordinary wire, creating intense magnetic fields. Superconducting magnets can produce stronger magnet...
988. ...stem being constructed in Japan. During operation, the magnet windings must be cooled below their critical temperature, the temperature at which the winding material changes from the normal resistive **state** and becomes a superconductor, which is in the cryogenic range far below room temperature. The windings are typically cooled to temperatures significantly below their critical temperature, because the...
989. ...ical temperature, because the lower the temperature, the better superconductive windings work—the higher the currents and magnetic fields they can stand without returning to their non-superconductive **state**. Two types of cooling systems are commonly used to maintain magnet windings at temperatures sufficient to maintain superconductivity: Liquid helium is used as a coolant for many superconductive windi...
990. ...could otherwise cause wire fracture or crushing of insulation between adjacent turns. The current to the coil windings is provided by a high current, very low voltage DC power supply, since in steady **state** the only voltage across the magnet is due to the resistance of the feeder wires. Any change to the current through the magnet must be done very slowly, first because electrically the magnet is a larg...
991. ...superconducting magnets are equipped with persistent switches. A quench is an abnormal termination of magnet operation that occurs when part of the superconducting coil enters the normal (resistive) **state**. This can occur because the field inside the magnet is too large, the rate of change of field is too large (causing eddy currents and resultant heating in the copper support matrix), or a combination...
992. ...When this happens, that particular spot is subject to rapid Joule heating from the enormous current, which raises the temperature of the surrounding regions. This pushes those regions into the normal **state** as well, which leads to more heating in a chain reaction. The entire magnet rapidly becomes normal (this can take several seconds, depending on the size of the superconducting coil). This is accompan...
993. ...y can be smaller, and the area at the center of the magnet where the field is created is empty rather than being occupied by an iron core. Large magnets can consume much less power. In the persistent **state** (above), the only power the magnet consumes is that needed for refrigeration equipment. Higher fields can be achieved with cooled resistive electromagnets, as superconducting coils enter the non-supe...
994. ...e only power the magnet consumes is that needed for refrigeration equipment. Higher fields can be achieved with cooled resistive electromagnets, as superconducting coils enter the non-superconducting **state** at high fields. Steady fields of over 40 T can be achieved, usually by combining a Bitter electromagnet with a superconducting magnet (often as an insert). Superconducting magnets are widely used in...
995. ...n and position of rotating shafts within their bearings. This technology was originally pioneered in the 1930s by researchers at General Electric using vacuum tube circuitry. In the late 1950s, solid-**state** versions were developed by Donald E. Bently at Bently Nevada Corporation. These sensors are extremely sensitive to very small displacements making them well suited to observe the minute vibrations (o...
996. ...Seebeck coefficient are needed. The band structure of semiconductors offers better thermoelectric effects than the band structure of metals. The Fermi energy is below the conduction band causing the **state** density to be asymmetric around the Fermi energy. Therefore, the average electron energy of the conduction band is higher than the Fermi energy, making the system conducive for charge motion into a l...
997. ...be asymmetric around the Fermi energy. Therefore, the average electron energy of the conduction band is higher than the Fermi energy, making the system conducive for charge motion into a lower energy **state**. By contrast, the Fermi energy lies in the conduction band in metals. This makes the state density symmetric about the Fermi energy so that the average conduction electron energy is close to the Ferm...
998. ...tion band is higher than the Fermi energy, making the system conducive for charge motion into a lower energy state. By contrast, the Fermi energy lies in the conduction band in metals. This makes the **state** density symmetric about the Fermi energy so that the average conduction electron energy is close to the Fermi energy, reducing the forces pushing for charge transport. Therefore, semiconductors are i...
999. ...re, so sulfur consumption could help mitigate future damage. As for the metal, copper is an ideal seed particle for any kind of substitution method because of its high mobility and variable oxidation **state**, for it can balance or complement the charge of more inflexible cations. Therefore, either the cuprokalininite or bornite minerals could prove ideal thermoelectric components. Half-Heusler (HH) alloy...
1000. ...tibility with older preamp MM inputs; low output MC cartridges may generate excessive noise or have insufficient preamp gain to drive amplifiers to their rated output if used on MM inputs. Most solid **state** preamplifiers have separate high gain, low noise MC inputs to accommodate these. Cartridges with very low output need a separate pre-phono amplification stage before input to an MC or MM preamplifier...
1001. ...r being very musical; however early versions required more tracking force than competitive designs - making record wear a concern. Anisothermal plasma An Anisothermal plasma is a plasma which thermal **state** can be approximated by more than one temperature for the different degrees of freedom of the plasma.  The degrees of freedom refer to translation (kinetic energy), rotation, vibration of each particl...
1002. ...avy neutrals and ions. The term nonthermal plasma includes anisothermal plasmas and means that the different degrees of freedom of the plasma are "not" in thermal equilibrium. Charge carrier In solid **state** physics, a charge carrier is a particle or quasiparticle that is free to move, carrying an electric charge, especially the particles that carry electric charges in electrical conductors. Examples are...
1003. ...otons ("optical recombination", used in LEDs and semiconductor lasers). The recombination means an electron which has been excited from the valence band to the conduction band falls back to the empty **state** in the valence band, known as the holes. The holes are the empty states created in the valence band when an electron gets excited after getting some energy to pass the energy gap. The more abundant c...
1004. ...potentially also carry electric charge. This is theoretically possible, yet the very short life-time of these charged particles would render such a current very challenging to maintain at the current **state** of technology. It might be possible to artificially create this type of current, or it might occur in nature during very short lapses of time. Plasmas consist of ionized gas. Electric charge can caus...
1005. ...hototubes were used for motion detectors and counters. Phototubes have been used for years in movie projectors to read the sound tracks on the edge of movie film. The more recent development of solid **state** optical devices such as photodiodes has reduced the use of photocathodes to cases where they still remain superior to semiconductor devices. Photocathodes operate in a vacuum, so their design paralle...
1006. ...tion). Ferroelectrics can retain the polarisation permanently because they are in thermodynamic equilibrium, and thus are used in ferroelectric capacitors. Although electrets are only in a metastable **state**, those fashioned from very low leakage materials can retain excess charge or polarisation for many years. An electret microphone is a type of condenser microphone that eliminates the need for a polar...
1007. ...ealthcare practitioner, i.e., a physician, psychiatrist, nurse practitioner, psychologist, physician assistant, or occupational therapist who has an appropriate electrotherapy license, dependent upon **state** regulations. The United States requires a prescription for CES devices from a licensed healthcare practitioner. The FDA says that there are 11 CES devices cleared for marketing in the United States....
1008. ...with using guitar amps is that they have been used for years and their sound is reliable, though not all guitar amps will give a desired tone. Some prefer the more mellow tone of tube amps over solid **state** amps and digital PA's for violins. Similar to how electric guitar amplifiers are typically used for electric violins, guitar effect pedals, or effects units can be and are used for electric violins....
1009. ...Energy conservation implies so that Plugging in, we get: We thus get a differential cross section of: Integrating, the total cross section is: Electric field gradient In atomic, molecular, and solid-**state** physics, the electric field gradient (EFG) measures the rate of change of the electric field at an atomic nucleus generated by the electronic charge distribution and the other nuclei. The EFG couples...
1010. ...ng the amplitude of a certain frequency band on a defined location on the scalp to higher or lower values. Depending on the training goal (for example, increasing attention and focus, reaching a calm **state**, reducing epileptic seizures, etc.), the electrodes have to be placed in different positions. Additionally, the trained frequency bands and the training directions (to higher or lower amplitudes) mig...
1011. ...apacitors (varactors). In memory applications, the stored value of a ferroelectric capacitor is read by applying an electric field. The amount of charge needed to flip the memory cell to the opposite **state** is measured and the previous state of the cell is revealed. This means that the read operation destroys the memory cell state, and has to be followed by a corresponding write operation, in order to w...
1012. ...plications, the stored value of a ferroelectric capacitor is read by applying an electric field. The amount of charge needed to flip the memory cell to the opposite state is measured and the previous **state** of the cell is revealed. This means that the read operation destroys the memory cell state, and has to be followed by a corresponding write operation, in order to write the bit back. This makes it si...
1013. ...ield. The amount of charge needed to flip the memory cell to the opposite state is measured and the previous state of the cell is revealed. This means that the read operation destroys the memory cell **state**, and has to be followed by a corresponding write operation, in order to write the bit back. This makes it similar to (now obsolete) ferrite core memory. The requirement of a write cycle for each read...
1014. ...laser's cavity, though often it is desirable to operate only on the fundamental mode. Electron excitation Electron excitation is the transfer of a bound electron to a more energetic, but still bound **state**. This can be done by photoexcitation (PE), where the electron absorbs a photon and gains all its energy or by collisional excitation (CE), where the electron receives energy from a collision with ano...
1015. ...n is a process where lattice vibrations provide enough energy to transfer electrons to a higher energy band such as a more energetic sublevel or energy level. When an excited electron falls back to a **state** of lower energy, it undergoes electron relaxation (deexcitation). This is accompanied by the emission of a photon (radiative relaxation/spontaneous emission) or by a transfer of energy to another par...
1016. ...al properties of some solids. The electronic excitation (or deexcitation) can take place by several processes such as: There are several rules that dictate the transition of an electron to an excited **state**, known as selection rules. First, as previously noted, the electron must absorb an amount of energy equivalent to the energy difference between the electron's current energy level and an unoccupied,...
1017. ...lectron is associated cannot adjust to the change in electron position on the same time scale as the electron (because nuclei are much heavier), and thus the nucleus may be brought into a vibrational **state** in response to the electron transition. Then, the rule is that the amount of energy absorbed by an electron may allow for the electron to be promoted from a vibrational and electronic ground state to...
1018. ...al state in response to the electron transition. Then, the rule is that the amount of energy absorbed by an electron may allow for the electron to be promoted from a vibrational and electronic ground **state** to a vibrational and electronic excited state. A third rule is the Laporte Rule, which necessitates that the two energy states between which an electron transitions must have different symmetry. A fo...
1019. ...n. Then, the rule is that the amount of energy absorbed by an electron may allow for the electron to be promoted from a vibrational and electronic ground state to a vibrational and electronic excited **state**. A third rule is the Laporte Rule, which necessitates that the two energy states between which an electron transitions must have different symmetry. A fourth rule is that when an electron undergoes a...
1020. ...Laporte Rule, which necessitates that the two energy states between which an electron transitions must have different symmetry. A fourth rule is that when an electron undergoes a transition, the spin **state** of the molecule/atom that contains the electron must be conserved. Under some circumstances, certain selection rules may be broken and excited electrons may make "forbidden" transitions. The spectral...
1021. ...rpolarization. If a cell has Na or Ca currents at rest, then inhibition of those currents will also result in a hyperpolarization. This voltage-gated ion channel response is how the hyperpolarization **state** is achieved. In neurons, the cell enters a state of hyperpolarization immediately following the generation of an action potential. While hyperpolarized, the neuron is in a refractory period that last...
1022. ...rest, then inhibition of those currents will also result in a hyperpolarization. This voltage-gated ion channel response is how the hyperpolarization state is achieved. In neurons, the cell enters a **state** of hyperpolarization immediately following the generation of an action potential. While hyperpolarized, the neuron is in a refractory period that lasts roughly 2 milliseconds (Citation needed here),...
1023. ...or coplanar, stripline, and microstrip transmission lines. Such planar transmission-line resonators can be very compact in size and are widely used elements in microwave circuitry. In cryogenic solid-**state** research, superconducting transmission-line resonators contribute to solid-state spectroscopy and quantum information science. In a laser, light is amplified in a cavity resonator that is usually com...
1024. ...on-line resonators can be very compact in size and are widely used elements in microwave circuitry. In cryogenic solid-state research, superconducting transmission-line resonators contribute to solid-**state** spectroscopy and quantum information science. In a laser, light is amplified in a cavity resonator that is usually composed of two or more mirrors. Thus an "optical cavity", also known as a resonator...
1025. ...phenomenon is closely related to the Meissner effect, though with one crucial difference — the Meissner effect shields the superconductor from all magnetic fields causing repulsion, unlike the pinned **state** of the superconductor disk which pins flux, and the superconductor in place. Flux pinning is desirable in high-temperature ceramic superconductors to prevent "flux creep", which can create a pseudo-r...
1026. ...d. Sodium channels possess an inherent inactivation mechanism that prompts rapid reclosure, even as the membrane remains depolarized. During this equilibrium, the sodium channels enter an inactivated **state**, temporarily halting the influx of sodium ions until the membrane potential becomes negatively charged again. Once the cell's interior is sufficiently positively charged, depolarization concludes, an...
1027. ...ercome for depolarization to occur. Excitation stimuli, on the other hand, increase the voltage in the neuron, which leads to a neuron that is easier to depolarize than the same neuron in the resting **state**. Regardless of it being excitatory or inhibitory, the stimulus travels down the dendrites of a neuron to the cell body for integration. Once the stimuli have reached the cell body, the nerve must int...
1028. ...When rod cells are in the dark, they are depolarized. In the rod cells, this depolarization is maintained by ion channels that remain open due to the higher voltage of the rod cell in the depolarized **state**. The ion channels allow calcium and sodium to pass freely into the cell, maintaining the depolarized state. Rod cells in the depolarized state constantly release neurotransmitters which in turn stimu...
1029. ...y ion channels that remain open due to the higher voltage of the rod cell in the depolarized state. The ion channels allow calcium and sodium to pass freely into the cell, maintaining the depolarized **state**. Rod cells in the depolarized state constantly release neurotransmitters which in turn stimulate the nerves associated with rod cells. This cycle is broken when rod cells are exposed to light; the ab...
1030. ...to the higher voltage of the rod cell in the depolarized state. The ion channels allow calcium and sodium to pass freely into the cell, maintaining the depolarized state. Rod cells in the depolarized **state** constantly release neurotransmitters which in turn stimulate the nerves associated with rod cells. This cycle is broken when rod cells are exposed to light; the absorption of light by the rod cell ca...
1031. ...t and 85% carrier, by volume. Particles in ferrofluids are dispersed in a liquid, often using a surfactant, and thus ferrofluids are colloidal suspensions – materials with properties of more than one **state** of matter. In this case, the two states of matter are the solid metal and liquid it is in. This ability to change phases with the application of a magnetic field allows them to be used as seals, lubr...
1032. ...tic properties (specifically, the fluid's magnetic saturation). The addition of surfactants (or any other foreign particles) decreases the packing density of the ferroparticles while in its activated **state**, thus decreasing the fluid's on-state viscosity, resulting in a "softer" activated fluid. While the on-state viscosity (the "hardness" of the activated fluid) is less of a concern for some ferrofluid...
1033. ...d's magnetic saturation). The addition of surfactants (or any other foreign particles) decreases the packing density of the ferroparticles while in its activated state, thus decreasing the fluid's on-**state** viscosity, resulting in a "softer" activated fluid. While the on-state viscosity (the "hardness" of the activated fluid) is less of a concern for some ferrofluid applications, it is a primary fluid p...
1034. ...eign particles) decreases the packing density of the ferroparticles while in its activated state, thus decreasing the fluid's on-state viscosity, resulting in a "softer" activated fluid. While the on-**state** viscosity (the "hardness" of the activated fluid) is less of a concern for some ferrofluid applications, it is a primary fluid property for the majority of their commercial and industrial application...
1035. ...a concern for some ferrofluid applications, it is a primary fluid property for the majority of their commercial and industrial applications and therefore a compromise must be met when considering on-**state** viscosity versus the settling rate of a ferrofluid. Ferrofluids are used to form liquid seals around the spinning drive shafts in hard disks. The rotating shaft is surrounded by magnets. A small amou...
1036. ...gnetic field: formula_2 Generically, the intrinsic energy includes the self-field energy of the system plus the energy of the internal workings of the system. For example, for a hydrogen atom in a 2p **state** in an external field, the self-field energy is negligible, so the internal energy is essentially the eigenenergy of the 2p state, which includes Coulomb potential energy and the kinetic energy of the...
1037. ...ernal workings of the system. For example, for a hydrogen atom in a 2p state in an external field, the self-field energy is negligible, so the internal energy is essentially the eigenenergy of the 2p **state**, which includes Coulomb potential energy and the kinetic energy of the electron. The interaction-field energy between the internal dipoles and external fields is not part of this internal energy. The...
1038. ...feld models are still significant to understanding the qualitative behaviour of solids and to get a first qualitative understanding of a specific experimental setup. This is a generic method in solid **state** physics, where it is typical to incrementally increase the complexity of the models to give more and more accurate predictions. It is less common to use a full-blown quantum field theory from first p...
1039. ...a_21 where denotes average momentum and the charge of the electrons. This, which is an inhomogeneous differential equation, may be solved to obtain the general solution of formula_22 for . The steady **state** solution, , is then formula_23 As above, average momentum may be related to average velocity and this in turn may be related to current density, formula_9 and the material can be shown to satisfy Ohm...
1040. ...f buckling or crippling. The general field of study is called structural stability. Atmospheric instability is a major component of all weather systems on Earth. In the theory of dynamical systems, a **state** variable in a system is said to be unstable if it evolves without bounds. A system itself is said to be unstable if at least one of its state variables is unstable. In continuous time control theory,...
1041. ...r systems on Earth. In the theory of dynamical systems, a state variable in a system is said to be unstable if it evolves without bounds. A system itself is said to be unstable if at least one of its **state** variables is unstable. In continuous time control theory, a system is unstable if any of the roots of its characteristic equation has real part greater than zero (or if zero is a repeated root). This...
1042. ...ol theory, a system is unstable if any of the roots of its characteristic equation has real part greater than zero (or if zero is a repeated root). This is equivalent to any of the eigenvalues of the **state** matrix having either real part greater than zero, or, for the eigenvalues on the imaginary axis, the algebraic multiplicity being larger than the geometric multiplicity. The equivalent condition in d...
1043. ...lowing through them. The heat dissipation also increases with the square of the magnetic field strength. In the mid-1990s researchers at the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory (NHMFL) at Florida **State** University in Tallahassee improved on this basic design and created what they refer to as the "Florida Bitter". By elongating the mounting and cooling holes, there is a substantial drop in the stress...
1044. ...aday rotator is a polarization rotator based on the Faraday effect, a magneto-optic effect involving transmission of light through a material when a longitudinal static magnetic field is present. The **state** of polarization (such as the axis of linear polarization or the orientation of elliptical polarization) is rotated as the wave traverses the device, which is explained by a slight difference in the p...
1045. ...is distinct from linear birefringence (or simply birefringence, when the term is not further specified) which also transforms a wave's polarization but not through a simple rotation. The polarization **state** is rotated in proportion to the applied longitudinal magnetic field according to: where formula_2 is the angle of rotation (in radians),  formula_3 is the magnetic flux density in the direction of pr...
1046. ...st step in the electrification of the chemical industry with an expected large-scale implementation by 2025. Some cities in the United States have started prohibiting gas hookups for new houses, with **state** laws passed and under consideration to either require electrification or prohibit local requirements. The UK government is experimenting with electrification for home heating to meet its climate goal...
1047. ...influence of an applied electric field, the charges in molecules have moved from a position of exact cancellation. The positive and negative charges in molecules separate, causing an increase in the **state** of polarization . A changing state of polarization corresponds to charge movement and so is equivalent to a current, hence the term "polarization current". Thus, formula_3 This polarization is the di...
1048. ...ield, the charges in molecules have moved from a position of exact cancellation. The positive and negative charges in molecules separate, causing an increase in the state of polarization . A changing **state** of polarization corresponds to charge movement and so is equivalent to a current, hence the term "polarization current". Thus, formula_3 This polarization is the displacement current as it was origin...
1049. ...iron objects in the soil, thermoremanent magnetization of fired clays, and differences in the magnetic susceptibility of disturbed soils. During 1961–1963, they surveyed more than of the Angel Mounds **State** Historic Site in Indiana and excavated more than to match anomalous magnetometer readings with the archaeological features that produced them. This was the first systematic use of a proton magnetomet...
1050. ...current through the source contact metallisation (often aluminium) can reach the critical current densities during overload conditions. The degradation of the aluminium layer causes an increase in on-**state** resistance, and can eventually lead to complete failure. The material properties of the metal interconnects have a strong influence on the life span. The characteristics are predominantly the composi...
1051. ...ctrode, it's very important to protect electrode surface and solution from the presence of organic substances as well as from atmospheric oxygen. Inorganic ions that can be reduced to a lower valency **state** at the electrode also have to be avoided (e.g., , ). A number of organic substances are also reduced by hydrogen on a platinum surface, and these also have to be avoided. Cations that can be reduced...
1052. ...This area of Photobiology focuses on the physical interactions of light and matter. When molecules absorb photons that matches their energy requirements they promote a valence electron from a ground **state** to an excited state and they become a lot more reactive. This is an extremely fast process, but very important for different processes. This area of Photobiology studies the reactivity of a molecule...
1053. ...iology focuses on the physical interactions of light and matter. When molecules absorb photons that matches their energy requirements they promote a valence electron from a ground state to an excited **state** and they become a lot more reactive. This is an extremely fast process, but very important for different processes. This area of Photobiology studies the reactivity of a molecule when it absorbs ener...
1054. ...reactivity of a molecule when it absorbs energy that comes from light. It also studies what happens with this energy, it could be given off as heat or fluorescence so the molecule goes back to ground **state**. There are 3 basic laws of photochemistry: 1) First Law of Photochemistry: This law explains that in order for photochemistry to happen, light has to be absorbed. 2) Second Law of Photochemistry: Thi...
1055. .... According to Brown and Swift (1949), "A formal potential is defined as the potential of a half-cell, measured against the standard hydrogen electrode, when the total concentration of each oxidation **state** is one formal". The activity coefficients formula_46 and formula_47 are included in the formal potential formula_28, and because they depend on experimental conditions such as temperature, ionic stre...
1056. ...ia. Old Smokey is the nickname of the electric chairs used in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Tennessee. "Old Sparky" is sometimes used to refer to electric chairs in general, and not one of a specific **state**. Connecticut legislated lethal injection as its sole method of execution in 1995. The last person executed by electrocution was Joseph "Mad Dog" Taborsky in May 1960. Connecticut's "Old Sparky" has n...
1057. ...ion in Somers in 1962, and prison officials claim the prison's electrical system cannot handle it. The electric chair was the sole means of execution in Florida from 1924 until 2000, when the Florida **State** Legislature, under pressure from the U.S. Supreme Court, signed lethal injection into law. Although no one has been executed in this manner since 1999, prisoners awaiting execution on Florida's death...
1058. ...to law. Although no one has been executed in this manner since 1999, prisoners awaiting execution on Florida's death row may still be electrocuted at their request. It is currently located in Florida **State** Prison on the outskirts of Starke. It was known for frequent malfunctions in the 1990s, namely in the cases of Jesse Tafero (executed May 4, 1990), Pedro Medina (executed March 25, 1997) and Allen Le...
1059. ...After the Medina execution, which was reportedly painless in spite of the flames, Florida Attorney General Bob Butterworth commented, "People who wish to commit murder, they'd better not do it in the **state** of Florida because we may have a problem with the electric chair." Investigators have been unable to identify the cause of the problems. The wooden chair had been replaced in early 1999 to accommodat...
1060. ...ver capital punishment in general. The Florida Supreme Court's web servers repeatedly crashed under the demand for access to the photographs, reputed to be the first actual photographs of an American **state** execution in decades. The images were used during a protest demonstration in Madrid in support of a Spaniard on Florida's death row. Some death penalty supporters in the United States viewed the phot...
1061. ...s electrocution. The Attorney General then notified the Federal court and it agreed to dismiss the case based on the change in law. Georgia's electric chair, known as "Old Sparky", located at Georgia **State** Prison was installed in 1924 following the state's abolition of hanging and was the sole method of execution in Georgia until October 25, 2001. The original chair, which was painted white, was replac...
1062. ...ed the Federal court and it agreed to dismiss the case based on the change in law. Georgia's electric chair, known as "Old Sparky", located at Georgia State Prison was installed in 1924 following the **state**'s abolition of hanging and was the sole method of execution in Georgia until October 25, 2001. The original chair, which was painted white, was replaced in 1980 and sent from the Georgia Diagnostic a...
1063. ...to Reidsville, while a squat, varnished replacement was constructed to replace it. Between 1924 and 1998, Georgia electrocuted 441 prisoners. Today the original chair is on public display at Georgia **State** Prison, while its replacement is situated in a closet near the death chamber at the Georgia Diagnostic and Classification Center. It was used in the 1945 execution of Lena Baker. In 1996, Georgia Sta...
1064. ...ate Prison, while its replacement is situated in a closet near the death chamber at the Georgia Diagnostic and Classification Center. It was used in the 1945 execution of Lena Baker. In 1996, Georgia **State** Representative Doug Teper unsuccessfully sponsored a bill to replace the state's electric chair with a guillotine in order to facilitate the use of the condemned prisoners' remains in organ donation....
1065. ...r at the Georgia Diagnostic and Classification Center. It was used in the 1945 execution of Lena Baker. In 1996, Georgia State Representative Doug Teper unsuccessfully sponsored a bill to replace the **state**'s electric chair with a guillotine in order to facilitate the use of the condemned prisoners' remains in organ donation. Kentucky's electric chair, known as "Old Sparky", is located at the Kentucky S...
1066. ...e's electric chair with a guillotine in order to facilitate the use of the condemned prisoners' remains in organ donation. Kentucky's electric chair, known as "Old Sparky", is located at the Kentucky **State** Penitentiary in Eddyville, Kentucky. It was first used on July 8, 1911; the first inmate to die in the chair was James Buckner, convicted of killing a police officer several weeks earlier. On July 13...
1067. ...er, convicted of killing a police officer several weeks earlier. On July 13, 1928, Kentucky set a record by electrocuting eight men in its chair, each immediately after the other, more than any other **state** has electrocuted in a single day. The state has decommissioned the electric chair except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to March 31, 1998, and choose death by electrocution rathe...
1068. ...veral weeks earlier. On July 13, 1928, Kentucky set a record by electrocuting eight men in its chair, each immediately after the other, more than any other state has electrocuted in a single day. The **state** has decommissioned the electric chair except for those whose capital crimes were committed prior to March 31, 1998, and choose death by electrocution rather than death by lethal injection or if letha...
1069. ...deaths had occurred in Kentucky's electric chair. The last such execution by electric chair occurred on July 1, 1997, when convicted murderer Harold McQueen, Jr. was executed in it. In 1887, New York **State** established a committee to determine a new, more humane system of execution to replace hanging. Alfred P. Southwick, a member of the committee, developed the idea of putting electric current through...
1070. ...execution on July 7, 1891. The order of execution, which would start at 4:30 a.m., was listed as James J. Slocum, Harris Smiler, Shibuya Jugiro, and Joseph Wood. From 1914, all executions in New York **state** were conducted at Sing Sing prison using "Old Sparky". After a series of escapes from death row, the "Death House" at Sing Sing was built in 1920 and began executions in 1922. It was a prison within...
1071. ...11 p.m. on Thursdays. Condemned prisoners would be brought into the execution room escorted by seven guards and the prison chaplain. Already waiting in the room would be the warden of Sing Sing, the **state** electrician, two doctors and twelve state-appointed witnesses. After the condemned prisoner was strapped into the chair and the electrodes attached, the warden would step forward and read out the fin...
1072. ...would be brought into the execution room escorted by seven guards and the prison chaplain. Already waiting in the room would be the warden of Sing Sing, the state electrician, two doctors and twelve **state**-appointed witnesses. After the condemned prisoner was strapped into the chair and the electrodes attached, the warden would step forward and read out the final decision on the sentence. The prisoner...
1073. ...on would then begin. Witnesses would leave once both doctors had confirmed that death had occurred. In its 75 years of operation, a total of 695 people were executed by the electric chair in New York **state** (614 at Sing Sing, including the Rosenbergs' 1953 execution for espionage). Eddie Lee Mays, electrocuted at Sing Sing on August 15, 1963, was the last person to be executed in New York state. Two yea...
1074. ...New York state (614 at Sing Sing, including the Rosenbergs' 1953 execution for espionage). Eddie Lee Mays, electrocuted at Sing Sing on August 15, 1963, was the last person to be executed in New York **state**. Two years later New York state abolished capital punishment. The state would later reinstate the practice in 1995 using lethal injection, but the practice was abolished again in 2004, after the Cour...
1075. ..., including the Rosenbergs' 1953 execution for espionage). Eddie Lee Mays, electrocuted at Sing Sing on August 15, 1963, was the last person to be executed in New York state. Two years later New York **state** abolished capital punishment. The state would later reinstate the practice in 1995 using lethal injection, but the practice was abolished again in 2004, after the Court of Appeals ruled in "People v....
1076. ...on for espionage). Eddie Lee Mays, electrocuted at Sing Sing on August 15, 1963, was the last person to be executed in New York state. Two years later New York state abolished capital punishment. The **state** would later reinstate the practice in 1995 using lethal injection, but the practice was abolished again in 2004, after the Court of Appeals ruled in "People v. LaValle" that it violated the state con...
1077. ...The state would later reinstate the practice in 1995 using lethal injection, but the practice was abolished again in 2004, after the Court of Appeals ruled in "People v. LaValle" that it violated the **state** constitution. No inmates were executed during the nine years that capital punishment was reinstated in New York. Ohio was the second state to adopt the electric chair as a means of execution, executi...
1078. ...of Appeals ruled in "People v. LaValle" that it violated the state constitution. No inmates were executed during the nine years that capital punishment was reinstated in New York. Ohio was the second **state** to adopt the electric chair as a means of execution, executing 315 people between 1897 and its last use was in 1963. The state stopped using the electric chair in 2001, and now exclusively utilizes l...
1079. ...that capital punishment was reinstated in New York. Ohio was the second state to adopt the electric chair as a means of execution, executing 315 people between 1897 and its last use was in 1963. The **state** stopped using the electric chair in 2001, and now exclusively utilizes lethal injection in executions. Ohio's Old Sparky is now a museum exhibit in the Ohio State Reformatory. The state installed the...
1080. ...97 and its last use was in 1963. The state stopped using the electric chair in 2001, and now exclusively utilizes lethal injection in executions. Ohio's Old Sparky is now a museum exhibit in the Ohio **State** Reformatory. The state installed the "Old Sparky" in 1912 at the Central Correctional Institution (CCI) in Columbia. In 1944 it was used to execute 14-year-old George Stinney, the youngest person to...
1081. ...in 1963. The state stopped using the electric chair in 2001, and now exclusively utilizes lethal injection in executions. Ohio's Old Sparky is now a museum exhibit in the Ohio State Reformatory. The **state** installed the "Old Sparky" in 1912 at the Central Correctional Institution (CCI) in Columbia. In 1944 it was used to execute 14-year-old George Stinney, the youngest person to be sentenced to death i...
1082. ...ntil 1959, during which time nine condemned prisoners were executed in the chair. The chair was bolted to a low platform which covered what had previously been the trapdoor of the gallows used in the **state**'s judicial hangings. Its control apparatus was designed in such a way that three push-button switches were to be simultaneously pressed by three members of the execution team; only one of these switc...
1083. ...gCl + e^-<=> Ag +Cl^-</chem> The notation for the cell is: <chem>Ag | AgCl | KCl(xM)||</chem> There are four main types of ion-selective membrane used in ion-selective electrodes (ISEs): glass, solid **state**, liquid based, and compound electrode. Glass membranes are made from an ion-exchange type of glass (silicate or chalcogenide). This type of ISE has good selectivity, but only for several single-charg...
1084. ...e neurons like the pre-Bötzinger complex is modulated by neurotransmitters and neuropeptides, and such modulatory connectivity gives to the neurons the necessary plasticity to generating distinctive, **state**-dependent rhythmic patterns that depend on pacemaker potentials. The heart has several pacemakers, each which fires at its own intrinsic rate: The potentials will normally travel in order SA node → A...
1085. ...ost commonly in early childhood. Repeated episodes of childhood febrile seizures are associated with an increased risk of temporal lobe epilepsy in adulthood. With patch clamp recording, an analogous **state** was replicated "in vitro" in rat cortical neurons after induction of febrile body temperatures; a notable decrease in threshold potential was observed. The mechanism for this decrease possibly involv...
1086. ...ent as the rotor deviates from its center position. The gap sensors are usually inductive in nature and sense in a differential mode. The power amplifiers in a modern commercial application are solid **state** devices which operate in a pulse-width modulation configuration. The controller is usually a microprocessor or digital signal processor. Two types of instabilities are typically present in magnetic b...
1087. ...War II. The patents dealt with ultracentrifuges intended for the enrichment of isotopes of elements needed for the Manhattan Project. However, magnetic bearings did not mature until advances in solid-**state** electronics and modern computer-based control technology with the work of Habermann and Schweitzer. In 1987, Estelle Croot further improved active magnetic bearing technology, but these designs were...
1088. ...two paths in parallel), thus reducing Joule heating in the wires. Joule heating does not occur in superconducting materials, as these materials have zero electrical resistance in the superconducting **state**. Resistors create electrical noise, called Johnson–Nyquist noise. There is an intimate relationship between Johnson–Nyquist noise and Joule heating, explained by the fluctuation-dissipation theorem....
1089. ...ical properties deviate substantially from those of bulk materials. A particle behaves as if it were free when the confining dimension is large compared to the wavelength of the particle. During this **state**, the bandgap remains at its original energy due to a continuous energy state. However, as the confining dimension decreases and reaches a certain limit, typically in nanoscale, the energy spectrum be...
1090. ...e behaves as if it were free when the confining dimension is large compared to the wavelength of the particle. During this state, the bandgap remains at its original energy due to a continuous energy **state**. However, as the confining dimension decreases and reaches a certain limit, typically in nanoscale, the energy spectrum becomes discrete. As a result, the bandgap becomes size-dependent. As the size...
1091. ...sing the volume or the dimensions of the available space, increases the energy of the states. Shown in the diagram is the change in electron energy level and bandgap between nanomaterial and its bulk **state**. The following equation shows the relationship between energy level and dimension spacing: Research results provide an alternative explanation of the shift of properties at nanoscale. In the bulk pha...
1092. ...ron formula_25 to the mean free path formula_39 (distance at which another collision occurs). formula_40 is the number of molecules which electrons can hit. It can be calculated using the equation of **state** of the ideal gas The adjoining sketch illustrates that formula_41. As the radius of an electron can be neglected compared to the radius of an ion formula_42 it simplifies to formula_43. Using this re...
1093. ...en achieved by installing direct current generators in series (a system known as the Thury system) although this suffered from serious reliability issues. In 1957 Siemens demonstrated the first solid-**state** rectifier (solid-state rectifiers are now the standard for HVDC systems) however it was not until the early 1970s that this technology was used in commercial power systems. In 1959 Westinghouse demon...
1094. ...ng direct current generators in series (a system known as the Thury system) although this suffered from serious reliability issues. In 1957 Siemens demonstrated the first solid-state rectifier (solid-**state** rectifiers are now the standard for HVDC systems) however it was not until the early 1970s that this technology was used in commercial power systems. In 1959 Westinghouse demonstrated the first circu...
1095. ...connections at the shaft angle when the voltage would reverse. An alternator accomplishes the same goal using rectifiers that do not wear down and require replacement.  Modern designs now use "solid **state**" technology (transistors) to perform the same function that the relays perform in electromechanical regulators. Electromechanical regulators are used for mains voltage stabilisation—see AC voltage st...
1096. ...ll have automatic voltage regulators (AVR) to stabilize their voltages as the load on the generators changes. The first AVRs for generators were electromechanical systems, but a modern AVR uses solid-**state** devices. An AVR is a feedback control system that measures the output voltage of the generator, compares that output to a set point, and generates an error signal that is used to adjust the excitatio...
1097. ...input, or of opposite polarity—something not possible with a linear design. In switched regulators, the pass transistor is used as a "controlled switch" and is operated at either cutoff or saturated **state**. Hence the power transmitted across the pass device is in discrete pulses rather than a steady current flow. Greater efficiency is achieved since the pass device is operated as a low impedance switch...
1098. ...n the top of potential wells created in the valence band. The states that confined carriers can be in are particle-in-a-box-like states. Quantum wells and quantum well devices are a subfield of solid-**state** physics that is still extensively studied and researched today. The theory used to describe such systems uses important results from the fields of quantum physics, statistical physics, and electrodyn...
1099. ...ions are obtained, The solution wave functions take the following form: The subscript formula_9, (formula_10) denotes the integer quantum number and formula_11 is the wave vector associated with each **state**, given above. The associated discrete energies are given by: The simple infinite well model provides a good starting point for analyzing the physics of quantum well systems and the effects of quantum...
1100. ...he transcendental equations above can easily be found using numerical or graphical methods. There are generally only a few solutions. However, there will always be at least one solution, so one bound **state** in the well, regardless of how small the potential is. Similar to the infinite well, the wave functions in the well are sinusoidal-like but exponentially decay in the barrier of the well. This has th...
1101. ...devices because of more inherent simplicity with this structure. Since then, the use of SESAMs has enabled the pulse durations, average powers, pulse energies and repetition rates of ultrafast solid-**state** lasers to be improved by several orders of magnitude. Average power of 60 W and repetition rate up to 160 GHz were obtained. By using SESAM-assisted KLM, sub-6 fs pulses directly from a Ti:sapphire o...
1102. ...ormation potential, formula_34. Second, due to the strain, there is a splitting of heavy-hole and light-hole degeneracy. In a heavily compressed material, the heavy holes (hh) move to a higher energy **state**. In tensile material, light holes (lh) move to a higher energy state. One can calculate the difference in energy due to the splitting of hh and lh from the shear deformation potential, formula_36, st...
1103. ...splitting of heavy-hole and light-hole degeneracy. In a heavily compressed material, the heavy holes (hh) move to a higher energy state. In tensile material, light holes (lh) move to a higher energy **state**. One can calculate the difference in energy due to the splitting of hh and lh from the shear deformation potential, formula_36, strain, formula_31, and elastic stiffness coefficients, formula_32 and...
1104. ...harge carrier undergoes due to confinement when its Bohr radius is larger than the size of the well. As the quantum well thickness increases, QSEs decrease. The decrease in QSEs causes the formula_48 **state** to move down and decrease the effective bandgap. The Kronig–Penney model is used to calculate the quantum states, and Anderson's rule is applied to estimate the conduction band and valence band offse...
1105. ...ontaneous magnetization. The precipitate structure is a "barrier" against magnetization changes, as it prefers few magnetization states requiring much energy to get the material into any intermediate **state**. Also, a weak magnetic field shifts the magnetization of the matrix phase only and is reversible. Alnico magnets are widely used in industrial and consumer applications where strong permanent magnets...
1106. ...h the module operates. Performance varies depending on geographic location, time of day, the day of the year, amount of solar irradiance, direction and tilt of modules, cloud cover, shading, soiling, **state** of charge, and temperature. Performance of a module or panel can be measured at different time intervals with a DC clamp meter or shunt and logged, graphed, or charted with a chart recorder or data l...
1107. ...ven in those early years. Overall the manufacturing process of creating solar photovoltaics is simple in that it does not require the culmination of many complex or moving parts. Because of the solid-**state** nature of PV systems, they often have relatively long lifetimes, anywhere from 10 to 30 years. To increase the electrical output of a PV system, the manufacturer must simply add more photovoltaic com...
1108. ...hese products in 2012 to raise prices for domestic manufacturers. The USA, however, also subsidies the industry, offering consumers a 30% federal tax credit to purchase modules. In Hawaii federal and **state** subsidies chop off up to two thirds of the installation costs. Some environmentalists have promoted the idea that government incentives should be used in order to expand the PV manufacturing industry...
1109. ...e. In order to maintain voltage within tolerance under changing load conditions, various types of devices are traditionally employed: A new generation of devices for voltage regulation based on solid-**state** technology are in the early commercialization stages. Distribution regulation involves a "regulation point": the point at which the equipment tries to maintain constant voltage. Customers further tha...
1110. ...Marvel was the hope that her innocence would eventually force Mary into surrendering back his power to him, but changed enough to allow Isis's rebirth. After the attempt failed, Adam returned to his **state** of mourning and anger. Adam's mourning is cut short, however, when he discovers a bloodied flower in his shrine, believing it a sign from Isis. Despite her powers and consciousness being heavily seda...
1111. ...none, about terror and courage in the face of the unknowable." The title comes from Bob Dylan's song "From a Buick 6". The novel is a series of recollections by the members of Troop D, a Pennsylvania **State** Police barracks in Western Pennsylvania. After a drunk driver kills Curtis Wilcox, a well-liked member of Troop D, his son Ned begins to visit the barracks. The cops, the dispatcher and the custodian...
1112. ...to watch over the Buick, in the hope that whatever supernatural force it possesses will eventually dissipate and expire. Eddie Jacubois, one of the troopers, ends up killing himself and Ned becomes a **State** Trooper. One day, Ned shows Sandy the Buick; there is now a crack in the windshield that hasn't healed. They realize that whatever was sustaining the Buick is spent, and that sooner or later it will...
1113. ...distances. This approach was developed by Kenneth Wilson. He was awarded the Nobel prize for these decisive contributions in 1982. Assume that we have a theory described by a certain function of the **state** variables and a set of coupling constants . This function can be a partition function, an action, or a Hamiltonian. Consider a certain blocking transformation of the state variables , the number of m...
1114. ...y a certain function of the state variables and a set of coupling constants . This function can be a partition function, an action, or a Hamiltonian. Consider a certain blocking transformation of the **state** variables , the number of must be lower than the number of . Now let us try to rewrite "only" in terms of the . If this is achievable by a certain change in the parameters, , then the theory is said...
1115. ...to neodymium (expressed by atomic masses 130 through 145). The yield is somewhat dependent on the parent atom and also on the energy of the initiating neutron. In general the higher the energy of the **state** that undergoes nuclear fission, the more likely that the two fission products have similar mass. Hence, as the neutron energy increases and/or the energy of the fissile atom increases, the valley bet...
1116. ...he fuel unless there is fuel element failure or a nuclear accident, or the fuel is reprocessed. Commercial nuclear fission reactors are operated in the otherwise self-extinguishing prompt subcritical **state**. Certain fission products decay over seconds to minutes, producing additional delayed neutrons crucial to sustaining criticality. An example is bromine-87 with a half-life of about a minute. Operatin...
1117. ...decay over seconds to minutes, producing additional delayed neutrons crucial to sustaining criticality. An example is bromine-87 with a half-life of about a minute. Operating in this delayed critical **state**, power changes slowly enough to permit human and automatic control. Analogous to fire dampers varying the movement of wood embers towards new fuel, control rods are moved as the nuclear fuel burns up...
1118. ...ectrum peaked in the central, yellow-green part of the visible spectrum, but with significant power in the ultraviolet as well. Blackbody radiation provides insight into the thermodynamic equilibrium **state** of cavity radiation. All normal (baryonic) matter emits electromagnetic radiation when it has a temperature above absolute zero. The radiation represents a conversion of a body's internal energy into...
1119. ...graphite and lamp black, with emissivities greater than 0.95, are good approximations to a black material. Experimentally, blackbody radiation may be established best as the ultimately stable steady **state** equilibrium radiation in a cavity in a rigid body, at a uniform temperature, that is entirely opaque and is only partly reflective. A closed box with walls of graphite at a constant temperature with...
1120. ...d evaporation. Conduction is negligible – the Nusselt number is much greater than unity. Evaporation by perspiration is only required if radiation and convection are insufficient to maintain a steady-**state** temperature (but evaporation from the lungs occurs regardless). Free-convection rates are comparable, albeit somewhat lower, than radiative rates. Thus, radiation accounts for about two-thirds of the...
1121. ...e is telepathically alerted by Cable that he is the only one close enough to protect the children of Jean's sister, Sara Grey, from the Prime Sentinels of . Nate rescues the kids despite his weakened **state**, leaving Joey and Gailyn in the care of their grandparents. Nate's time in New York is marked by near-endless conflict and his powers spiraling out of control. He is attacked by the psychotic killer...
1122. ...("on"/"off", "positive"/"negative" or whatever states are being used) to the Boolean constants "0" and "1". The transients are ignored in this analysis, along with any slight discrepancy between the **state** of the device and the nominal state assigned to a Boolean value. For instance, Boolean "1" may be assigned to the state of +5V. The output of the device may be +4.5V but the analyst still considers t...
1123. ...or whatever states are being used) to the Boolean constants "0" and "1". The transients are ignored in this analysis, along with any slight discrepancy between the state of the device and the nominal **state** assigned to a Boolean value. For instance, Boolean "1" may be assigned to the state of +5V. The output of the device may be +4.5V but the analyst still considers this to be Boolean "1". Device manufa...
1124. ...nts are ignored in this analysis, along with any slight discrepancy between the state of the device and the nominal state assigned to a Boolean value. For instance, Boolean "1" may be assigned to the **state** of +5V. The output of the device may be +4.5V but the analyst still considers this to be Boolean "1". Device manufacturers will usually specify a range of values in their data sheets that are to be c...
1125. ...idered undefined (i.e. the result will be unpredictable). The transients are not entirely uninteresting to the analyst. The maximum rate of switching is determined by the speed of transition from one **state** to the other. Happily for the analyst, for many devices most of the transition occurs in the linear portion of the devices transfer function and linear analysis can be applied to obtain at least an a...
1126. ...btain at least an approximate answer. It is mathematically possible to derive Boolean algebras that have more than two states. There is not too much use found for these in electronics, although three-**state** devices are passingly common. This technique is used where the operation of the circuit is to be essentially linear, but the devices used to implement it are non-linear. A transistor amplifier is an...
1127. ...med, or both—Faraday's law of induction says that the wire loop acquires an emf, defined as the energy available from a unit charge that has traveled once around the wire loop. (Although some sources **state** the definition differently, this expression was chosen for compatibility with the equations of special relativity.) Equivalently, it is the voltage that would be measured by cutting the wire to creat...
1128. ...ld) and formula_18 is for the motional emf (due to the magnetic Lorentz force on charges by the motion or deformation of the loop in the magnetic field). It is tempting to generalize Faraday's law to **state**: "If ' is any arbitrary closed loop in space whatsoever, then the total time derivative of magnetic flux through ' equals the emf around ""." This statement, however, is not always true and the reaso...
1129. ...a specified level. Other designs of lightning arresters use a glow-discharge tube (essentially like a neon glow lamp) connected between the protected conductor and ground, or voltage-activated solid-**state** switches called varistors or MOVs. Lightning arresters used in power substations are large devices, consisting of a porcelain tube several feet long and several inches in diameter, typically filled w...
1130. ...f the signal. Many more measurement results can be displayed depending on the type of modulation being used (symbol decoding, MIMO measurements, radio frame summary, etc.). Electron mobility In solid-**state** physics, the electron mobility characterises how quickly an electron can move through a metal or semiconductor when pushed or pulled by an electric field. There is an analogous quantity for holes, ca...
1131. ...the scattering event. Some elastic scattering processes are scattering from acoustic phonons, impurity scattering, piezoelectric scattering, etc. In acoustic phonon scattering, electrons scatter from **state** k to k', while emitting or absorbing a phonon of wave vector q. This phenomenon is usually modeled by assuming that lattice vibrations cause small shifts in energy bands. The additional potential cau...
1132. ...V" is negative for "n"-type material and positive for "p"-type material. Mathematically, the Lorentz force acting on a charge "q" is given by For electrons: formula_63 For holes: formula_64 In steady **state** this force is balanced by the force set up by the Hall voltage, so that there is no net force on the carriers in the "y" direction. For electrons, formula_65 formula_66 formula_67 For electrons, the...
1133. ...ization, independent operation of each panel, plug-and play installation, improved installation and fire safety, minimized costs with system design and stock minimization. A 2011 study at Appalachian **State** University reports that individual integrated inverter setup yielded about 20% more power in unshaded conditions and 27% more power in shaded conditions compared to string connected setup using one i...
1134. ...roinverter companies to produce and sell AC solar panels include BenQ, Canadian Solar, LG, NESL, SunPower, Sharp Solar, Suntech, Siemens, Trina Solar and Qcells. As of 2019, conversion efficiency for **state**-of-the-art solar converters reached more than 98 percent. While string inverters are used in residential to medium-sized commercial PV systems, central inverters cover the large commercial and utilit...
1135. ...iers (such as electron holes). One way to define the Seebeck coefficient is the voltage built up when a small temperature gradient is applied to a material, and when the material has come to a steady **state** where the current density is zero everywhere. If the temperature difference Δ"T" between the two ends of a material is small, then the Seebeck coefficient of a material is defined as: where Δ"V" is t...
1136. ...ntial equation where formula_3 is the current density, formula_4 is the electrical conductivity, formula_5 is the voltage gradient, and formula_6 is the temperature gradient. The zero-current, steady **state** special case described above has formula_7, which implies that the two electrical conductivity terms have cancelled out and so formula_8 The sign is made explicit in the following expression: Thus, i...
1137. ...lectrical conductance—to describe what determines the formula_4 in formula_24. Microscopically, what is happening in Ohm's law is that higher energy levels have a higher concentration of carriers per **state**, on the side with higher chemical potential. For each interval of energy, the carriers tend to diffuse and spread into the area of device where there are fewer carriers per state of that energy. As t...
1138. ...tion of carriers per state, on the side with higher chemical potential. For each interval of energy, the carriers tend to diffuse and spread into the area of device where there are fewer carriers per **state** of that energy. As they move, however, they occasionally scatter dissipatively, which re-randomizes their energy according to the local temperature and chemical potential. This dissipation empties ou...
1139. ...at the hotter side of the material there is more variation in the energies of the charge carriers, compared to the colder side. This means that high energy levels have a higher carrier occupation per **state** on the hotter side, but also the hotter side has a "lower" occupation per state at lower energy levels. As before, the high-energy carriers diffuse away from the hot end, and produce entropy by drift...
1140. ...e charge carriers, compared to the colder side. This means that high energy levels have a higher carrier occupation per state on the hotter side, but also the hotter side has a "lower" occupation per **state** at lower energy levels. As before, the high-energy carriers diffuse away from the hot end, and produce entropy by drifting towards the cold end of the device. However, there is a competing process: a...
1141. ...University of Pennsylvania to evaluate the MagneMotion M3 and of the Maglev2000 of Florida superconducting EDS system. Other US urban maglev demonstration projects of note are the LEVX in Washington **State** and the Massachusetts-based Magplane. General Atomics has a test facility in San Diego, that is used to test Union Pacific's freight shuttle in Los Angeles. The technology is "passive" (or "permanent...
1142. ...hat if the line project was successful the Indian government would build lines between other cities and also between Mumbai Central and Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport. Mumbai – Nagpur: The **State** of Maharashtra approved a feasibility study for a maglev train between Mumbai and Nagpur, some apart. Chennai – Bangalore – Mysore: A detailed report was to be prepared and submitted by December 2012...
1143. ...gas to Los Angeles with stops in Primm, Nevada; Baker, California; and other points throughout San Bernardino County into Los Angeles. Politicians expressed concern that a high-speed rail line out of **state** would carry spending out of state along with travelers. The Pennsylvania Project: The Pennsylvania High-Speed Maglev Project corridor extends from the Pittsburgh International Airport to Greensburg,...
1144. ...rimm, Nevada; Baker, California; and other points throughout San Bernardino County into Los Angeles. Politicians expressed concern that a high-speed rail line out of state would carry spending out of **state** along with travelers. The Pennsylvania Project: The Pennsylvania High-Speed Maglev Project corridor extends from the Pittsburgh International Airport to Greensburg, with intermediate stops in Downtow...
1145. ...ol current fed into the control winding sets the point in the AC winding waveform at which either core will saturate. In saturation, the AC winding on the saturated core will go from a high-impedance **state** ("off") into a very low-impedance state ("on") – that is, the control current controls the point at which voltage the mag amp switches "on". A relatively small DC current on the control winding is ab...
1146. ...sets the point in the AC winding waveform at which either core will saturate. In saturation, the AC winding on the saturated core will go from a high-impedance state ("off") into a very low-impedance **state** ("on") – that is, the control current controls the point at which voltage the mag amp switches "on". A relatively small DC current on the control winding is able to control or switch large AC current...
1147. ...Multiple isolated signals may be summed by additional control windings on the magnetic cores. The windings of a magnetic amplifier have a higher tolerance to momentary overloads than comparable solid-**state** devices. The magnetic amplifier is also used as a transducer in applications such as current measurement and the flux gate compass. The reactor cores of magnetic amplifiers withstand neutron radiatio...
1148. ...of a high-gain amplifier is limited to about one-tenth the excitation frequency, although this is often mitigated by exciting magnetic amplifiers with currents at higher than utility frequency. Solid-**state** electronic amplifiers can be more compact and efficient than magnetic amplifiers. The bias and feedback windings are not unilateral and may couple energy back from the controlled circuit into the con...
1149. ...control of battery chargers. Magnetic amplifiers were used extensively as the switching element in early switched-mode (SMPS) power supplies, as well as in lighting control. Semiconductor-based solid-**state** switches have largely superseded them, though recently there has been some regained interest in using mag amps in compact and reliable switching power supplies. PC ATX power supplies often use mag am...
1150. ...ut 1960, when new fabrication techniques produced great improvements in transistors and dramatically lowered their cost. Only one large-scale mag amp machine was put into production, the UNIVAC Solid **State**, but a number of contemporary late-1950s/early-1960s computers used the technology, like the Ferranti Sirius, Ferranti Orion and the English Electric KDF9, or the one-off MAGSTEC. A voltage source an...
1151. ...ion. This equation is one of the basic tools for interpreting the spectra of stars. By studying the spectra of stars, one can find their temperature and using Saha's equation determine the ionisation **state** of the elements making up the star. This was extended by Ralph H. Fowler and Edward Arthur Milne. Saha had previously reached the following conclusion on the subject: Saha also invented an instrument...
1152. ...ive silicone. Conductive rubber is a cheap, flexible and efficient option. Violet wands were originally electric and neon testers, but are now split into two types: mechanical (Tesla Coil), and solid-**state** wands. They are used for the application of low current, high voltage (min 35 kV to max 65 kV typically), high-frequency electricity to the body, as such they are most commonly used in BDSM for eroti...
1153. ...ds can deliver a variety of sharp, cutting, or piercing type sensations. A violet wand typically consists of a hand-held "wand" made of plastic case which encases the mechanical (Tesla coil) or solid **state** components; a power cable, a collet (7/16" in the United States, 11 mm in Europe), and a cone. The collet is inside the cone end of the violet wand and is where glass and metal probes are inserted to...
1154. ...Hall sensors in many applications due to their improved performance. The relative resistance change—or effect amplitude—is defined as where formula_2 is the electrical resistance in the anti-parallel **state**, whereas formula_3 is the resistance in the parallel state. The TMR effect was explained by Jullière with the spin polarizations of the ferromagnetic electrodes. The spin polarization "P" is calculat...
1155. ...formance. The relative resistance change—or effect amplitude—is defined as where formula_2 is the electrical resistance in the anti-parallel state, whereas formula_3 is the resistance in the parallel **state**. The TMR effect was explained by Jullière with the spin polarizations of the ferromagnetic electrodes. The spin polarization "P" is calculated from the spin dependent density of states (DOS) formula_...
1156. ...an be described in a two-current model. The total current is split in two partial currents, one for the spin-up electrons and another for the spin-down electrons. These vary depending on the magnetic **state** of the junctions. There are two possibilities to obtain a defined anti-parallel state. First, one can use ferromagnets with different coercivities (by using different materials or different film thic...
1157. ...ents, one for the spin-up electrons and another for the spin-down electrons. These vary depending on the magnetic state of the junctions. There are two possibilities to obtain a defined anti-parallel **state**. First, one can use ferromagnets with different coercivities (by using different materials or different film thicknesses). And second, one of the ferromagnets can be coupled with an antiferromagnet (...
1158. ...tunneling transmission of electrons with a particular symmetry that are fully spin-polarized within the current flowing across body-centered cubic Fe-based electrodes. Thus, in the MTJ's parallel (P) **state** of electrode magnetization, electrons of this symmetry dominate the junction current. In contrast, in the MTJ's antiparallel (AP) state, this channel is blocked, such that electrons with the next mos...
1159. ...ered cubic Fe-based electrodes. Thus, in the MTJ's parallel (P) state of electrode magnetization, electrons of this symmetry dominate the junction current. In contrast, in the MTJ's antiparallel (AP) **state**, this channel is blocked, such that electrons with the next most favorable symmetry to transmit dominate the junction current. Since those electrons tunnel with respect to a larger barrier height, th...
1160. ...spacer at the junction interface during sample growth was also later demonstrated While theory, first formulated in 2001, predicts large TMR values associated with a 4eV barrier height in the MTJ's P **state** and 12eV in the MTJ's AP state, experiments reveal barrier heights as low as 0.4eV. This contradiction is lifted if one takes into account the localized states of oxygen vacancies in the MgO tunnel b...
1161. ...e during sample growth was also later demonstrated While theory, first formulated in 2001, predicts large TMR values associated with a 4eV barrier height in the MTJ's P state and 12eV in the MTJ's AP **state**, experiments reveal barrier heights as low as 0.4eV. This contradiction is lifted if one takes into account the localized states of oxygen vacancies in the MgO tunnel barrier. Extensive solid-state t...
1162. ...P state, experiments reveal barrier heights as low as 0.4eV. This contradiction is lifted if one takes into account the localized states of oxygen vacancies in the MgO tunnel barrier. Extensive solid-**state** tunnelling spectroscopy experiments across MgO MTJs revealed in 2014 that the electronic retention on the ground and excited states of an oxygen vacancy, which is temperature-dependent, determines th...
1163. ...driven by the linear response voltage, can be computed from the expectation value of the torque operator: formula_7 where formula_8 is the gauge-invariant nonequilibrium density matrix for the steady-**state** transport, in the zero-temperature limit, in the linear-response regime, and the torque operator formula_9 is obtained from the time derivative of the spin operator: formula_10 Using the general form...
1164. ...the current supplied by the external circuit is removed sufficiently quickly, no damage is done to the material, and reducing the applied voltage causes a transition back to the material's insulating **state**. Lightning and sparks due to static electricity are natural examples of the electrical breakdown of air. Electrical breakdown is part of the normal operating mode of a number of electrical components...
1165. ...suspend overhead power lines, within underground power cables, or lines arcing to nearby branches of trees. Dielectric breakdown is also important in the design of integrated circuits and other solid **state** electronic devices. Insulating layers in such devices are designed to withstand normal operating voltages, but higher voltage such as from static electricity may destroy these layers, rendering a dev...
1166. ...dielectric beyond its dielectric strength so as to intentionally cause electrical breakdown of the device. The disruption causes a sudden transition of a portion of the dielectric, from an insulating **state** to a highly conductive state. This transition is characterized by the formation of an electric spark or plasma channel, possibly followed by an electric arc through part of the dielectric material. I...
1167. ...ric strength so as to intentionally cause electrical breakdown of the device. The disruption causes a sudden transition of a portion of the dielectric, from an insulating state to a highly conductive **state**. This transition is characterized by the formation of an electric spark or plasma channel, possibly followed by an electric arc through part of the dielectric material. If the dielectric happens to b...
1168. ...ane potential at which sodium is no longer drawn into or out of the cell). As the membrane potential becomes more positive, the sodium channels then close and lock, this is known as the "inactivated" **state**. During this state the channels cannot be opened regardless of the strength of the excitatory stimulus—this gives rise to the absolute refractory period. The relative refractory period is due to the...
1169. ...ich sodium is no longer drawn into or out of the cell). As the membrane potential becomes more positive, the sodium channels then close and lock, this is known as the "inactivated" state. During this **state** the channels cannot be opened regardless of the strength of the excitatory stimulus—this gives rise to the absolute refractory period. The relative refractory period is due to the leaking of potassiu...
1170. ...ctive). Due to the rapid influx sodium ions (steep phase 0 in action potential waveform) activation and inactivation of these channels happens almost at exactly the same time. During the inactivation **state**, Na cannot pass through (absolute refractory period). However they begin to recover from inactivation as the membrane potential becomes more negative (relative refractory period). The two main types...
1171. .... Another common model being physiochemical models that are physical in nature involving concentrations and reaction rates. In practice, the internal resistance of a battery is dependent on its size, **state** of charge, chemical properties, age, temperature, and the discharge current. It has an electronic component due to the resistivity of the component materials and an ionic component due to electrochem...
1172. ...quivalent series resistance (ESR) meters, essentially AC milliohm-meters normally used to measure the ESR of capacitors, can be used to estimate battery internal resistance, particularly to check the **state** of discharge of a battery rather than obtain an accurate DC value. Some chargers for rechargeable batteries indicate the ESR. In use, the voltage across the terminals of a disposable battery driving...
1173. ...due to an increase in internal resistance rather than a drop in the voltage of the equivalent source. In rechargeable lithium polymer batteries, the internal resistance is largely independent of the **state** of charge but increases as the battery ages due to the build up of a passivation layer on the electrodes called the "solid electrolyte interphase"; thus, it is a good indicator of expected life. Main...
1174. ..."Type O". Homes's law In superconductivity, Homes's law is an empirical relation that states that a superconductor's  critical temperature ("T") is proportional to the strength of the superconducting **state** for temperatures well below "T" close to zero temperature (also referred to as the fully formed superfluid density, formula_1) multiplied by the electrical resistivity formula_2 measured just above t...
1175. ...in Physical Review B in 2005, in which it was argued that any material that falls on the scaling line is likely in the  dirty limit (superconducting coherence length ξ is much greater than the normal-**state** mean-free path "l", ξ≫ "l"); however, a paper by Vladimir Kogan in Physical Review B in 2013 has shown that the  scaling relation is valid even when ξ~ "l",  suggesting that only materials in the cle...
1176. ...their energy." Kragh noted in particular John Quincy Stewart, William Duncan MacMillan, and Walther Nernst. Tired light mechanisms were among the proposed alternatives to the Big Bang and the Steady **State** cosmologies, both of which relied on the general relativistic expansion of the universe of the FRW metric. Through the middle of the twentieth century, most cosmologists supported one of these two pa...
1177. ..., the Big Bang emerged as the cosmological theory most supported by the observational evidence, and it remains the accepted consensus model with a current parametrization that precisely specifies the **state** and evolution of the universe. Although the proposals of "tired light cosmologies" are now more-or-less relegated to the dustbin of history, as a completely alternative proposal tired-light cosmologi...
1178. ...alculations using the local spin-density approximation (LSDA) of the density functional theory (DFT) where separate calculations are carried out for spin-up and spin-down electrons. The half-metallic **state** is concurrent with the existence of a metallic majority spin band and a nonmetallic minority spin band in the ferromagnetic phase. This model is not the same as the Stoner Model of itinerant ferromag...
1179. ...pin band in the ferromagnetic phase. This model is not the same as the Stoner Model of itinerant ferromagnetism. In the Stoner model, a high density of states at the Fermi level makes the nonmagnetic **state** unstable. In SP calculations of covalent ferromagnets using DFT-LSDA functionals, the exchange-correlation integral takes the place of the Stoner parameter. The density of states at the Fermi level d...
1180. ...an HDD, MRAM is useful in applications where moderate amounts of storage with a need for very frequent updates are required, which flash memory cannot support due to its limited write endurance. Six **state** MRAM is also being developed, echoing four bit multi level flash memory cells, that have six different bits, as opposed to two. Research is also being done by Aleksei Kimel at Radboud University in t...
1181. ...stellarator, after Wendelstein 7-X. The LHD employs a heliotron magnetic field originally developed in Japan. The objective of the project is to conduct fusion plasma confinement research in a steady **state** in order to elucidate possible solutions to physics and engineering problems in helical plasma reactors. The LHD uses neutral beam injection, ion cyclotron radio frequency (ICRF), and electron cyclot...
1182. ...oupling of their magnetic fields. When this polymer magnet is synthesized, the polymer chains need 3 months to line up before displaying any notable magnetism. In February 2002, researchers from Ohio **State** University & University of Utah developed the world's first light-tunable plastic magnet. The plastic material became 1.5 times more magnetic when blue light was shined on it. Green laser light rever...
1183. ...computing, a charge qubit is formed by a tiny superconducting island coupled by a Josephson junction (or practically, superconducting tunnel junction) to a superconducting reservoir (see figure). The **state** of the qubit is determined by the number of Cooper pairs that have tunneled across the junction. In contrast with the charge state of an atomic or molecular ion, the charge states of such an "island"...
1184. ...ng tunnel junction) to a superconducting reservoir (see figure). The state of the qubit is determined by the number of Cooper pairs that have tunneled across the junction. In contrast with the charge **state** of an atomic or molecular ion, the charge states of such an "island" involve a macroscopic number of conduction electrons of the island. The quantum superposition of charge states can be achieved by...
1185. ...s algorithm even being implemented using NMR. However, it is hard to see these two methods being scaled to the hundreds, thousands, or millions of qubits necessary to create a quantum computer. Solid-**state** representations of qubits are much more easily scalable, but they themselves have their own problem: decoherence. Superconductors, however, have the advantage of being more easily scaled, and they ar...
1186. ...h more easily scalable, but they themselves have their own problem: decoherence. Superconductors, however, have the advantage of being more easily scaled, and they are more coherent than normal solid-**state** systems. The implementation of Superconducting charge qubits have been progressing quickly since 1996. Design was theoretically described in 1997 by Shnirman, while the evidence of quantum coherence...
1187. ...A polymeric PTC device is made up of a non-conductive crystalline organic polymer matrix that is loaded with carbon black particles to make it conductive. While cold, the polymer is in a crystalline **state**, with the carbon forced into the regions between crystals, forming many conductive chains. Since it is conductive (the "initial resistance"), it will pass a current. If too much current is passed thr...
1188. ...), it will pass a current. If too much current is passed through the device, the device will begin to heat. As the device heats, the polymer will expand, changing from a crystalline into an amorphous **state**. The expansion separates the carbon particles and breaks the conductive pathways, causing the device to heat faster and expand more, further raising the resistance. This increase in resistance substa...
1189. ...ntially reduces the current in the circuit. A small (leakage) current still flows through the device and is sufficient to maintain the temperature at a level which will keep it in the high resistance **state**. Leakage current can range from less than a hundred mA at rated voltage up to a few hundred mA at lower voltages. The device can be said to have latching functionality. The hold current is the maximu...
1190. ...en power is removed, the heating due to the leakage current will stop and the PPTC device will cool. As the device cools, it regains its original crystalline structure and returns to a low resistance **state** where it can hold the current as specified for the device. This cooling usually takes a few seconds, though a tripped device will retain a slightly higher resistance for hours, unless the power in it...
1191. ...ttice and from the occupation of electronic energy bands. The existence of a Fermi surface is a direct consequence of the Pauli exclusion principle, which allows a maximum of one electron per quantum **state**. The study of the Fermi surfaces of materials is called fermiology. Consider a spin-less ideal Fermi gas of formula_1 particles. According to Fermi–Dirac statistics, the mean occupation number of a s...
1192. ...e. The study of the Fermi surfaces of materials is called fermiology. Consider a spin-less ideal Fermi gas of formula_1 particles. According to Fermi–Dirac statistics, the mean occupation number of a **state** with energy formula_2 is given by where Suppose we consider the limit formula_12. Then we have, By the Pauli exclusion principle, no two fermions can be in the same state. Additionally, at zero tempe...
1193. ...mean occupation number of a state with energy formula_2 is given by where Suppose we consider the limit formula_12. Then we have, By the Pauli exclusion principle, no two fermions can be in the same **state**. Additionally, at zero temperature the enthalpy of the electrons must be minimal, meaning that they cannot change state. If, for a particle in some state, there existed an unoccupied lower state that...
1194. ...n we have, By the Pauli exclusion principle, no two fermions can be in the same state. Additionally, at zero temperature the enthalpy of the electrons must be minimal, meaning that they cannot change **state**. If, for a particle in some state, there existed an unoccupied lower state that it could occupy, then the energy difference between those states would give the electron an additional enthalpy. Hence,...
1195. ...principle, no two fermions can be in the same state. Additionally, at zero temperature the enthalpy of the electrons must be minimal, meaning that they cannot change state. If, for a particle in some **state**, there existed an unoccupied lower state that it could occupy, then the energy difference between those states would give the electron an additional enthalpy. Hence, the enthalpy of the electron woul...
1196. ...same state. Additionally, at zero temperature the enthalpy of the electrons must be minimal, meaning that they cannot change state. If, for a particle in some state, there existed an unoccupied lower **state** that it could occupy, then the energy difference between those states would give the electron an additional enthalpy. Hence, the enthalpy of the electron would not be minimal. Therefore, at zero temp...
1197. ...herefore, at zero temperature all the lowest energy states must be saturated. For a large ensemble the Fermi level will be approximately equal to the chemical potential of the system, and hence every **state** below this energy must be occupied. Thus, particles fill up all energy levels below the Fermi level at absolute zero, which is equivalent to saying that is the energy level below which there are exac...
1198. ...ates where the condensation energy comes from opening a gap at the Fermi surface. Examples of such ground states are superconductors, ferromagnets, Jahn–Teller distortions and spin density waves. The **state** occupancy of fermions like electrons is governed by Fermi–Dirac statistics so at finite temperatures the Fermi surface is accordingly broadened. In principle all fermion energy level populations are...
1199. ...es Thor's offer of taking his place—noting that just Thor's offer has broken Bor's curse that he would be abandoned as Bor was—and states that Thor must lead the Asgardians, while Odin continues in a **state** approximating the Asgardian equivalent of heaven, to prevent Surtur from reentering the world. Loki assuages Doctor Doom's fears about Odin's potential wrath if the Asgardians move to Latveria, assur...
1200. ...of the skin by a variety of disciplines has resulted in an excess of names, now standardized to electrodermal activity (EDA). The traditional theory of EDA holds that skin resistance varies with the **state** of sweat glands in the skin. Sweating is controlled by the sympathetic nervous system, and skin conductance is an indication of psychological or physiological arousal. If the sympathetic branch of th...
1201. ...between two electrodes when a very weak current is steadily passed between them. The electrodes are normally placed about an inch apart, and the resistance recorded varies according to the emotional **state** of the subject. Galvanic skin potential (GSP) refers to the voltage measured between two electrodes without any externally applied current. It is measured by connecting the electrodes to a voltage am...
1202. ...to the voltage measured between two electrodes without any externally applied current. It is measured by connecting the electrodes to a voltage amplifier. This voltage also varies with the emotional **state** of the subject. A painful stimulus such as a pinprick elicits a sympathetic response by the sweat glands, increasing secretion. Although this increase is generally very small, sweat contains water an...
1203. ...the relative orientations of the electron spins and those magnetic moments: it is weakest when they are parallel and strongest when they are antiparallel; it is relatively strong in the paramagnetic **state**, in which the magnetic moments of the atoms have random orientations. For good conductors such as gold or copper, the Fermi level lies within the "sp" band, and the "d" band is completely filled. In...
1204. ...tizations: The coefficient "J" is an oscillatory function of the thickness of the non-magnetic layer d; therefore "J" can change its magnitude and sign. If the d value corresponds to the antiparallel **state** then an external field can switch the superlattice from the antiparallel state (high resistance) to the parallel state (low resistance). The total resistance of the structure can be written as where...
1205. ...he non-magnetic layer d; therefore "J" can change its magnitude and sign. If the d value corresponds to the antiparallel state then an external field can switch the superlattice from the antiparallel **state** (high resistance) to the parallel state (low resistance). The total resistance of the structure can be written as where R is the resistance of ferromagnetic superlattice, ΔR is the GMR increment and...
1206. ...an change its magnitude and sign. If the d value corresponds to the antiparallel state then an external field can switch the superlattice from the antiparallel state (high resistance) to the parallel **state** (low resistance). The total resistance of the structure can be written as where R is the resistance of ferromagnetic superlattice, ΔR is the GMR increment and θ is the angle between the magnetization...
1207. ...time. It is the energy density formula_7 (energy content per unit volume) divided by the power loss density formula_6 (rate of energy loss per unit volume): For a fusion reactor to operate in steady **state**, the fusion plasma must be maintained at a constant temperature. Thermal energy must therefore be added at the same rate the plasma loses energy in order to maintain the fusion conditions. This energ...
1208. ...mselves in the foot." Scattering amplitude In quantum physics, the scattering amplitude is the probability amplitude of the outgoing spherical wave relative to the incoming plane wave in a stationary-**state** scattering process. At large distances from the centrally symmetric scattering center, the plane wave is described by the wavefunction where formula_2 is the position vector; formula_3; formula_4 is...
1209. ...usually as applied fields or forces. They are combined with other equations governing physical laws to solve physical problems; for example in fluid mechanics the flow of a fluid in a pipe, in solid **state** physics the response of a crystal to an electric field, or in structural analysis, the connection between applied stresses or loads to strains or deformations. Some constitutive equations are simply...
1210. ...e of linear elastic materials. Following this discovery, this type of equation, often called a "stress-strain relation" in this example, but also called a "constitutive assumption" or an "equation of **state**" was commonly used. Walter Noll advanced the use of constitutive equations, clarifying their classification and the role of invariance requirements, constraints, and definitions of terms like "materi...
1211. ...the USP style). The United States Pharmacopeial Convention is a sponsor organization of the USAN Council, and the USAN for a given drug is often the same as the USP name. Free electron model In solid-**state** physics, the free electron model is a quantum mechanical model for the behaviour of charge carriers in a metallic solid. It was developed in 1927, principally by Arnold Sommerfeld, who combined the c...
1212. ...contribution and comes from the electron spin, an intrinsic quantum degree of freedom that can take two discrete values and it is associated to the electron magnetic moment. One open problem in solid-**state** physics before the arrival of quantum mechanics was to understand the heat capacity of metals. While most solids had a constant volumetric heat capacity given by Dulong–Petit law of about formula_32...
1213. ...spectrum, apart from a possible eigenvalue of zero, meaning that the physical systems represented by the two potentials have the same characteristic energies, apart from a possible zero-energy ground **state**. Consider a one-dimensional, non-relativistic particle with a two state internal degree of freedom called "spin". (This is not quite the usual notion of spin encountered in nonrelativistic quantum me...
1214. ...sical systems represented by the two potentials have the same characteristic energies, apart from a possible zero-energy ground state. Consider a one-dimensional, non-relativistic particle with a two **state** internal degree of freedom called "spin". (This is not quite the usual notion of spin encountered in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics, because "real" spin applies only to particles in three-dimensio...
1215. ...irtual photons that have been emitted and re-absorbed by the atom. In quantum electrodynamics the electromagnetic field is quantized and, like the harmonic oscillator in quantum mechanics, its lowest **state** is not zero. Thus, there exist small zero-point oscillations that cause the electron to execute rapid oscillatory motions. The electron is "smeared out" and each radius value is changed from "r" to "...
1216. ...ities of Bonn, Rostock, and Berlin. Jülich cooperates closely with RWTH Aachen University within the Jülich Aachen Research Alliance (JARA). The institution was established on 11 December 1956 by the **state** of North Rhine-Westphalia as a registered association before it was renamed Nuclear Research Centre Jülich in 1967. In 1990, its name was changed to "Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH". On 11 December 19...
1217. ...h Rhine-Westphalia as a registered association before it was renamed Nuclear Research Centre Jülich in 1967. In 1990, its name was changed to "Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH". On 11 December 1956, the **State** Parliament of North Rhine-Westphalia decided to establish an "atomic research centre". The Society for the Promotion of Nuclear Physics Research (GFKF) was thus established as a registered associatio...
1218. ...ed to establish an "atomic research centre". The Society for the Promotion of Nuclear Physics Research (GFKF) was thus established as a registered association (e. V.). Its founder is considered to be **State** Secretary Leo Brandt (Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transport of the Federal State of North Rhine-Westphalia). Several locations were considered but the decision was made in favour of the Stettern...
1219. ...Physics Research (GFKF) was thus established as a registered association (e. V.). Its founder is considered to be State Secretary Leo Brandt (Ministry of Economic Affairs and Transport of the Federal **State** of North Rhine-Westphalia). Several locations were considered but the decision was made in favour of the Stetternich forest in what was then the district of Jülich. The Society for the Promotion of N...
1220. ...ed into a limited liability company (GmbH), and in 1990, it was named Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH. The partners of Forschungszentrum Jülich are the Federal Republic of Germany (90%) and the federal **state** of North Rhine-Westphalia (10%). In 1958, the foundation stone was laid for the research reactors MERLIN (FRJ-1) and DIDO (FRJ-2), and they went into operation in 1962. The FRJ-1 research reactor was...
1221. ...rch priority was understanding solid states as a basis for the investigation and modification of material properties, for example for new materials in energy research. In 1970, the Institute of Solid **State** Research was established. In the decades that followed, Jülich expanded its range of research fields to include life sciences, energy and environmental research, materials science, and information te...
1222. ...ty company (GmbH) with the following company bodies: Partners' Meeting, Supervisory Board, and Board of Directors. The Partners' Meeting comprises representatives of the German federal government and **state** government of North Rhine-Westphalia. The chair of the board of directors is Wolfgang Marquardt, who has been in office since 1 July 2014. The other members of the Board of Directors are – as of Octo...
1223. ...ic and Technical Council (WTR). The annual budget of Forschungszentrum Jülich was approximately €948 million in 2022. Of this, 48% was institutional funding from the German federal government and the **state** of North Rhine-Westphalia and 52% was external funding. External funding comprises international (EU) and national (federal and state government, DFG, and other) project funding, R&D and infrastructu...
1224. ...institutional funding from the German federal government and the state of North Rhine-Westphalia and 52% was external funding. External funding comprises international (EU) and national (federal and **state** government, DFG, and other) project funding, R&D and infrastructure services (contracts), as well as project management on behalf of the Federal Republic of Germany and the federal state of North Rhi...
1225. ...(federal and state government, DFG, and other) project funding, R&D and infrastructure services (contracts), as well as project management on behalf of the Federal Republic of Germany and the federal **state** of North Rhine-Westphalia. Forschungszentrum Jülich has 6,796 employees (as of Dec. 2020). Almost 2,700 of these employees are scientists, and of these scientists 850 are doctoral researchers. The sc...
1226. ...heir chosen profession. Since Forschungszentrum Jülich was founded, more than 5,000 trainees have completed their training in more than 25 different professions. In a joint procedure with the federal **state** of North Rhine-Westphalia, the institute directors at Forschungszentrum Jülich are appointed professors at one of the neighbouring universities (e.g. in Aachen, Bonn, Cologne, Düsseldorf, Bochum, Dui...
1227. ...area at FZJ focuses on chemical and physical processes in soil. The Rhineland lignite-mining region, where FZJ is located, is undergoing an important structural change due to the coal phase-out. The **state** government of North Rhine-Westphalia aims to transform the region into a European model region for energy supply and resource security. Through its research projects, FZJ will support the successful...
1228. ...mation Processing – Structural Biochemistry at Forschungszentrum Jülich and the Institute of Physical Biology at HHU Düsseldorf. It operates various high-field NMR spectrometers for liquid- and solid-**state** NMR spectroscopy for research into biologically and medically relevant proteins in order to determine, for example, the three-dimensional structure with a high resolution. This technology is also use...
1229. ...ed to investigate the structural basis for affinities and specificities of these macromolecules in protein-ligand interactions. The Biomolecular NMR Centre has one 900 MHz NMR spectrometer for liquid-**state** NMR spectroscopy, one 800 MHz NMR spectrometer for liquid- and solid-state NMR spectroscopy, a 700 MHz device for liquid-state NMR, two 600 MHz devices for liquid-state NMR, and another 600 MHz NMR s...
1230. ...these macromolecules in protein-ligand interactions. The Biomolecular NMR Centre has one 900 MHz NMR spectrometer for liquid-state NMR spectroscopy, one 800 MHz NMR spectrometer for liquid- and solid-**state** NMR spectroscopy, a 700 MHz device for liquid-state NMR, two 600 MHz devices for liquid-state NMR, and another 600 MHz NMR spectrometer for solid-state NMR spectroscopy. A novel 600 MHz DNP-enhanced...
1231. ...The Biomolecular NMR Centre has one 900 MHz NMR spectrometer for liquid-state NMR spectroscopy, one 800 MHz NMR spectrometer for liquid- and solid-state NMR spectroscopy, a 700 MHz device for liquid-**state** NMR, two 600 MHz devices for liquid-state NMR, and another 600 MHz NMR spectrometer for solid-state NMR spectroscopy. A novel 600 MHz DNP-enhanced solid-state NMR device was installed in 2014. The Me...
1232. ...Hz NMR spectrometer for liquid-state NMR spectroscopy, one 800 MHz NMR spectrometer for liquid- and solid-state NMR spectroscopy, a 700 MHz device for liquid-state NMR, two 600 MHz devices for liquid-**state** NMR, and another 600 MHz NMR spectrometer for solid-state NMR spectroscopy. A novel 600 MHz DNP-enhanced solid-state NMR device was installed in 2014. The Membrane Centre at Forschungszentrum Jülich...
1233. ...800 MHz NMR spectrometer for liquid- and solid-state NMR spectroscopy, a 700 MHz device for liquid-state NMR, two 600 MHz devices for liquid-state NMR, and another 600 MHz NMR spectrometer for solid-**state** NMR spectroscopy. A novel 600 MHz DNP-enhanced solid-state NMR device was installed in 2014. The Membrane Centre at Forschungszentrum Jülich (approx. 1550 m) provides a research infrastructure for th...
1234. ...pectroscopy, a 700 MHz device for liquid-state NMR, two 600 MHz devices for liquid-state NMR, and another 600 MHz NMR spectrometer for solid-state NMR spectroscopy. A novel 600 MHz DNP-enhanced solid-**state** NMR device was installed in 2014. The Membrane Centre at Forschungszentrum Jülich (approx. 1550 m) provides a research infrastructure for the development of membrane systems, covering the entire spec...
1235. ...omponents. A priority is the development of novel membrane systems for energy technology in order to separate greenhouse gases from exhaust gases and to provide a basis for novel fuel cells and solid-**state** batteries. Forschungszentrum Jülich has a lattice steel mast (124 metres high) for meteorological measurements. It is equipped with platforms at 10 m, 20 m, 30 m, 50 m, 80 m, 100 m, and 120 m, on whi...
1236. ...to ensure healthy working conditions at Forschungszentrum Jülich. The services offered range from occupational health and safety to emergency medical care and psychosocial counselling. On campus, the **State** Institute for Occupational Safety "(LAfA)" for North Rhine-Westphalia operates a state collection centre for radioactive waste for North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony. This collection centre acce...
1237. ...range from occupational health and safety to emergency medical care and psychosocial counselling. On campus, the State Institute for Occupational Safety "(LAfA)" for North Rhine-Westphalia operates a **state** collection centre for radioactive waste for North Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony. This collection centre accepts radioactive waste from Forschungszentrum Jülich as well as other (low-level) radioa...
1238. ...man of the Song dynasty (960–1279). Shen was a master in many fields of study including mathematics, optics, and horology. In his career as a civil servant, he became a finance minister, governmental **state** inspector, head official for the Bureau of Astronomy in the Song court, Assistant Minister of Imperial Hospitality, and also served as an academic chancellor. At court his political allegiance was to...
1239. ...he was forced to rely on his wit and stern determination to achieve in his studies, subsequently passing the imperial examinations and enter the challenging and sophisticated life of an exam-drafted **state** bureaucrat. From about 1040 AD, Shen's family moved around Sichuan province and finally to the international seaport at Xiamen, where Shen's father accepted minor provincial posts in each new locatio...
1240. ...armaceutics. Shen Zhou died in the late winter of 1051 (or early 1052), when his son Shen Kuo was 21 years old. Shen Kuo grieved for his father, and following Confucian ethics, remained inactive in a **state** of mourning for three years until 1054 (or early 1055). As of 1054, Shen began serving in minor local governmental posts. However, his natural abilities to plan, organize, and design were proven earl...
1241. ...y Li Ding and Shu Dan in order to level a court case against Su. (The Crow Terrace Poetry Trial, of 1079.) With his demonstrations of loyalty and ability, Shen Kuo was awarded the honorary title of a **State** Foundation Viscount by Emperor Shenzong of Song (r. 1067–1085), who placed a great amount of trust in Shen Kuo. He was even made 'companion to the heir apparent' (太子中允; 'Taizi zhongyun'). At court Sh...
1242. ...a trusted member of Wang Anshi's elite circle of eighteen unofficial core political loyalists to the New Policies Group. Although much of Wang Anshi's reforms outlined in the New Policies centered on **state** finance, land tax reform, and the Imperial examinations, there were also military concerns. This included policies of raising militias to lessen the expense of upholding a million soldiers, putting g...
1243. ...loss of life. Along with abandoning the territory which Shen Kuo had fought for, Cai ousted Shen from his seat of office. Shen's life was now forever changed, as he lost his once reputable career in **state** governance and the military. Shen was then put under probation in a fixed residence for the next six years. However, as he was isolated from governance, he decided to pick up the ink brush and dedica...
1244. ...e next six years. However, as he was isolated from governance, he decided to pick up the ink brush and dedicate himself to intensive scholarly studies. After completing two geographical atlases for a **state**-sponsored program, Shen was rewarded by having his sentence of probation lifted, allowing him to live in a place of his choice. Shen was also pardoned by the court for any previous faults or crimes t...
1245. ...ncrease by 2," was a direct forerunner to the rhyme scheme method of repeated addition "9, 1, bottom add 1; 9, 2, bottom add 2". Shen wrote extensively about what he had learned while working for the **state** treasury, including mathematical problems posed by computing land tax, estimating requirements, currency issues, metrology, and so forth. Shen once computed the amount of terrain space required for b...
1246. ...three times a night for a continuum of five years. The Song astronomers of Shen's day still retained the lunar theory and coordinates of the earlier Yi Xing, which after 350 years had devolved into a **state** of considerable error. Shen criticized earlier Chinese astronomers for failing to describe celestial movement in spatial terms, yet he did not attempt to provide any reasoning for the motive power of...
1247. ...urgy. While visiting the iron-producing district at Cizhou in 1075, Shen described the "partial decarburization" method of reforging cast iron under a cold blast, which Hartwell, Needham, and Wertime **state** is the predecessor of the Bessemer process. Shen was worried about deforestation due to the needs of the iron industry and ink makers using pine soot in the production process, so he suggested for th...
1248. ...proposes that Shen was the first in history to "make a clear distinction between our unconnected experiences and the unitary causal world we postulate to explain them," which Biderman and Scharfstein **state** is arguably inherent in the works of Heraclitus, Plato, and Democritus as well. Shen was a firm believer in destiny and prognostication, and made rational explanations for the relations between them....
1249. .... The speed of a switch is determined by the speed of the charge carriers, which gets higher with higher voltage, and by the current available to charge the inevitable parasitic capacitance. In solid-**state** avalanche devices, a high voltage automatically leads to high current. Because the high voltage is applied only for a short time, solid-state switches will not heat up excessively. As compensation fo...
1250. ...to charge the inevitable parasitic capacitance. In solid-state avalanche devices, a high voltage automatically leads to high current. Because the high voltage is applied only for a short time, solid-**state** switches will not heat up excessively. As compensation for the higher voltages encountered, the later stages have to carry lower charge too. Stage cooling and capacitor recharging also go well togeth...
1251. ..., interfering with commercial and military wireless stations. The sinking 14 April 1912 increased public appreciation for the role of radio, but the loss of life brought attention to the disorganized **state** of the new radio industry, and prompted regulation which corrected some abuses. Although the "Titanic" radio operator's "CQD" distress calls summoned the which rescued 705 survivors, the rescue opera...
1252. ...ng results from literature research, they furthermore claim that approximately 40% of laboratory studies on cell cultures and animals indicate some degree of chemical or radiobiological hormesis, and **state**: ...its existence in the laboratory is beyond question and its mechanism of action appears well understood. They go on to outline a growing body of research that illustrates that the human body is no...
1253. ...an approximate value of the Debye length in liquids using conductivity, which is described in ISO Standard, and the book. The Debye length has become increasingly significant in the modeling of solid **state** devices as improvements in lithographic technologies have enabled smaller geometries. The Debye length of semiconductors is given: formula_58 where When doping profiles exceed the Debye length, major...
1254. ...m temperature and has a potential application in optoelectronics operating at deep ultraviolet frequencies. AlN was first synthesized in 1862 by F. Briegleb and A. Geuther. AlN, in the pure (undoped) **state** has an electrical conductivity of 10–10 Ω⋅cm, rising to 10–10 Ω⋅cm when doped. Electrical breakdown occurs at a field of 1.2–1.8 V/mm (dielectric strength).  The material exists primarily in the hexa...
1255. ...of the Ising model, is a model of interacting spins on a crystalline lattice. By studying the Potts model, one may gain insight into the behaviour of ferromagnets and certain other phenomena of solid-**state** physics. The strength of the Potts model is not so much that it models these physical systems well; it is rather that the one-dimensional case is exactly solvable, and that it has a rich mathematical...
1256. ...rey Potts, who described the model near the end of his 1951 Ph.D. thesis. The model was related to the "planar Potts" or "clock model", which was suggested to him by his advisor, Cyril Domb. The four-**state** Potts model is sometimes known as the Ashkin–Teller model, after Julius Ashkin and Edward Teller, who considered an equivalent model in 1943. The Potts model is related to, and generalized by, severa...
1257. ...a simpler Hamiltonian: where formula_10 is the Kronecker delta, which equals one whenever formula_11 and zero otherwise. The formula_12 standard Potts model is equivalent to the Ising model and the 2-**state** vector Potts model, with formula_13. The formula_14 standard Potts model is equivalent to the three-state vector Potts model, with formula_15. A generalization of the Potts model is often used in sta...
1258. ...ero otherwise. The formula_12 standard Potts model is equivalent to the Ising model and the 2-state vector Potts model, with formula_13. The formula_14 standard Potts model is equivalent to the three-**state** vector Potts model, with formula_15. A generalization of the Potts model is often used in statistical inference and biophysics, particularly for modelling proteins through direct coupling analysis. T...
1259. ...otts model consists of 'spins' that each may take on formula_1 states: formula_17 (with no particular ordering). The Hamiltonian is, where formula_19 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in **state** formula_21 while spin formula_22 is in state formula_23, and formula_24 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in state formula_21. Note: formula_27. This model resembles the Sherrington-Kirk...
1260. ...take on formula_1 states: formula_17 (with no particular ordering). The Hamiltonian is, where formula_19 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in state formula_21 while spin formula_22 is in **state** formula_23, and formula_24 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in state formula_21. Note: formula_27. This model resembles the Sherrington-Kirkpatrick model in that couplings can be hetero...
1261. ...is, where formula_19 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in state formula_21 while spin formula_22 is in state formula_23, and formula_24 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in **state** formula_21. Note: formula_27. This model resembles the Sherrington-Kirkpatrick model in that couplings can be heterogeneous and non-local. There is no explicit lattice structure in this model. Despit...
1262. ...ins, plus the interaction energy of this set and all the other spins in the lattice. The limit of this function is the Hamiltonian of the system; for finite "n", these are sometimes called the finite **state** Hamiltonians. The corresponding finite-state partition function is given by with "C" being the cylinder sets defined above. Here, β = 1/"kT", where "k" is the Boltzmann constant, and "T" is the tempe...
1263. ...and all the other spins in the lattice. The limit of this function is the Hamiltonian of the system; for finite "n", these are sometimes called the finite state Hamiltonians. The corresponding finite-**state** partition function is given by with "C" being the cylinder sets defined above. Here, β = 1/"kT", where "k" is the Boltzmann constant, and "T" is the temperature. It is very common in mathematical tre...
1264. ...allowed, that is, the underlying set of states is given by a full shift, then the sum may be trivially evaluated as If neighboring spins are only allowed in certain specific configurations, then the **state** space is given by a subshift of finite type. The partition function may then be written as where card is the cardinality or count of a set, and Fix is the set of fixed points of the iterated shift fu...
1265. ...nt. This can be estimated using the equation of motion for an electron with mass formula_33 and electric charge formula_34: formula_35 where formula_36 is the collision frequency. Since in the steady **state**, formula_37, then the above equation along with the definition of electric current, formula_38, where formula_39 is the electron number density, yields formula_40 Nevertheless, if the drift velocity...
1266. ...n of electric current, formula_38, where formula_39 is the electron number density, yields formula_40 Nevertheless, if the drift velocity of electrons exceeds the thermal velocity of plasma, a steady **state** cannot be achieved and magnetic diffusivity should be much larger than what is given in the above. This is called anomalous resistivity, formula_41, which can enhance the reconnection rate in the Swe...
1267. ...it is superparamagnetic, responding reversibly to changes in the magnetic field. For remanence to be possible there must be a strong enough magnetic anisotropy to keep the magnetization near a stable **state**; otherwise, thermal fluctuations make the magnetic moment wander randomly. As the rock continues to cool, there is a critical temperature at which the magnetic anisotropy becomes large enough to keep...
1268. ...anisotropy becomes large enough to keep the moment from wandering: this temperature is called the "blocking temperature" and referred to by the symbol formula_3. The magnetization remains in the same **state** as the rock is cooled to room temperature and becomes a thermoremanent magnetization. Magnetic grains may precipitate from a circulating solution, or be formed during chemical reactions, and may reco...
1269. ...). In many cases, the absolute value of matrix potential can be relatively large in comparison to the other components of water potential discussed above. Matrix potential markedly reduces the energy **state** of water near particle surfaces. Although water movement due to matrix potential may be slow, it is still extremely important in supplying water to plant roots and in engineering applications. The ma...
1270. ...it is still extremely important in supplying water to plant roots and in engineering applications. The matrix potential is always negative because the water attracted by the soil matrix has an energy **state** lower than that of pure water. Matrix potential only occurs in unsaturated soil above the water table. If the matrix potential approaches a value of zero, nearly all soil pores are completely filled...
1271. ...s. In the case that water drains into less-moist soil zones of similar porosity, the matrix potential is generally in the range of −10 to −30 kPa. At a potential of 0 kPa, the soil is in a saturation **state**. At saturation, all soil pores are filled with water, and water typically drains from large pores by gravity. At a potential of −33 kPa, or −1/3 bar, (−10 kPa for sand), soil is at field capacity. Ty...
1272. ...esolved sideband cooling Resolved sideband cooling is a laser cooling technique allowing cooling of tightly bound atoms and ions beyond the Doppler cooling limit, potentially to their motional ground **state**. Aside from the curiosity of having a particle at zero point energy, such preparation of a particle in a definite state with high probability (initialization) is an essential part of state manipulati...
1273. ...and ions beyond the Doppler cooling limit, potentially to their motional ground state. Aside from the curiosity of having a particle at zero point energy, such preparation of a particle in a definite **state** with high probability (initialization) is an essential part of state manipulation experiments in quantum optics and quantum computing. As of the writing of this article, the scheme behind what we ref...
1274. ...nal ground state. Aside from the curiosity of having a particle at zero point energy, such preparation of a particle in a definite state with high probability (initialization) is an essential part of **state** manipulation experiments in quantum optics and quantum computing. As of the writing of this article, the scheme behind what we refer to as "resolved sideband cooling" today is attributed to D. J. Win...
1275. ...atoms was demonstrated in 1998 by S. E. Hamann "et al." via Raman cooling. Resolved sideband cooling is a laser cooling technique that can be used to cool strongly trapped atoms to the quantum ground **state** of their motion. The atoms are usually precooled using the Doppler laser cooling. Subsequently, the resolved sideband cooling is used to cool the atoms beyond the Doppler cooling limit. A cold trappe...
1276. ...amount of motional energy present at that level. These motional quanta can be understood in the same way as for the quantum harmonic oscillator. A ladder of levels will be available for each internal **state** of the atom. For example, in the figure at right both the ground (g) and excited (e) states have their own ladder of vibrational levels. Suppose a two-level atom whose ground state is denoted by "g"...
1277. ...for each internal state of the atom. For example, in the figure at right both the ground (g) and excited (e) states have their own ladder of vibrational levels. Suppose a two-level atom whose ground **state** is denoted by "g" and excited state by "e". Efficient laser cooling occurs when the frequency of the laser beam is tuned to the red sideband i.e. formula_3, where formula_4 is the internal atomic tra...
1278. .... For example, in the figure at right both the ground (g) and excited (e) states have their own ladder of vibrational levels. Suppose a two-level atom whose ground state is denoted by "g" and excited **state** by "e". Efficient laser cooling occurs when the frequency of the laser beam is tuned to the red sideband i.e. formula_3, where formula_4 is the internal atomic transition frequency corresponding to a...
1279. ...sponding to at transition between "g" and "e" and formula_5 is the harmonic oscillation frequency of the atom. In this case the atom undergoes the transition formula_6, where formula_7 represents the **state** of an ion whose internal atomic state is "a" and the motional state is "m". If the recoil energy of the atom is negligible compared with the vibrational quantum energy, subsequent spontaneous emissio...
1280. ...and "e" and formula_5 is the harmonic oscillation frequency of the atom. In this case the atom undergoes the transition formula_6, where formula_7 represents the state of an ion whose internal atomic **state** is "a" and the motional state is "m". If the recoil energy of the atom is negligible compared with the vibrational quantum energy, subsequent spontaneous emission occurs predominantly at the carrier...
1281. ...armonic oscillation frequency of the atom. In this case the atom undergoes the transition formula_6, where formula_7 represents the state of an ion whose internal atomic state is "a" and the motional **state** is "m". If the recoil energy of the atom is negligible compared with the vibrational quantum energy, subsequent spontaneous emission occurs predominantly at the carrier frequency. This means that the...
1282. ...brational quantum number remains constant. This transition is formula_8 The overall effect of one of these cycles is to reduce the vibrational quantum number of the atom by one. To cool to the ground **state**, this cycle is repeated many times until formula_9 is reached with a high probability. The core process that provides the cooling assumes a two level system that is well localized compared to the wav...
1283. ...to start at sufficiently low formula_38. To that end, the particle is usually first cooled to the Doppler limit, then some sideband cooling cycles are applied, and finally, a measurement is taken or **state** manipulation is carried out. A more or less direct application of this scheme was demonstrated by Diedrich et al. with the caveat that the narrow quadrupole transition used for cooling connects the g...
1284. ...ulation is carried out. A more or less direct application of this scheme was demonstrated by Diedrich et al. with the caveat that the narrow quadrupole transition used for cooling connects the ground **state** to a long-lived state, and the latter had to be pumped out to achieve optimal cooling efficiency. It is not uncommon, however, that additional steps are needed in the process, due to the atomic struc...
1285. .... A more or less direct application of this scheme was demonstrated by Diedrich et al. with the caveat that the narrow quadrupole transition used for cooling connects the ground state to a long-lived **state**, and the latter had to be pumped out to achieve optimal cooling efficiency. It is not uncommon, however, that additional steps are needed in the process, due to the atomic structure of the cooled spe...
1286. ...a static magnetic field to their Zeeman manifolds. Doppler cooling is applied on the dipole S - P transition (397 nm), however, there is about 6% probability of spontaneous decay to the long-lived D **state**, so that state is simultaneously pumped out (at 866 nm) to improve Doppler cooling. Sideband cooling is performed on the narrow quadrupole transition S - D (729 nm), however, the long-lived D state n...
1287. ...tic field to their Zeeman manifolds. Doppler cooling is applied on the dipole S - P transition (397 nm), however, there is about 6% probability of spontaneous decay to the long-lived D state, so that **state** is simultaneously pumped out (at 866 nm) to improve Doppler cooling. Sideband cooling is performed on the narrow quadrupole transition S - D (729 nm), however, the long-lived D state needs to be pump...
1288. ...D state, so that state is simultaneously pumped out (at 866 nm) to improve Doppler cooling. Sideband cooling is performed on the narrow quadrupole transition S - D (729 nm), however, the long-lived D **state** needs to be pumped out to the short lived P state (at 854 nm) to recycle the ion to the ground S state and maintain cooling performance. One possible implementation was carried out by Leibfried et al...
1289. ...t (at 866 nm) to improve Doppler cooling. Sideband cooling is performed on the narrow quadrupole transition S - D (729 nm), however, the long-lived D state needs to be pumped out to the short lived P **state** (at 854 nm) to recycle the ion to the ground S state and maintain cooling performance. One possible implementation was carried out by Leibfried et al. and a similar one is detailed by Roos. For each...
1290. ...oling is performed on the narrow quadrupole transition S - D (729 nm), however, the long-lived D state needs to be pumped out to the short lived P state (at 854 nm) to recycle the ion to the ground S **state** and maintain cooling performance. One possible implementation was carried out by Leibfried et al. and a similar one is detailed by Roos. For each data point in the 729 nm absorption spectrum, a few h...
1291. ...include lightning rods, shielding wires, and bonding of electrical and structural parts of buildings to form a continuous enclosure. Yellow Mama Yellow Mama is the electric chair of the United States **state** of Alabama. It was used for executions from 1927 to 2002. First installed at Kilby State Prison near Montgomery, Alabama, the chair acquired its yellow color (and from it, the nickname "Yellow Mama")...
1292. ...f buildings to form a continuous enclosure. Yellow Mama Yellow Mama is the electric chair of the United States state of Alabama. It was used for executions from 1927 to 2002. First installed at Kilby **State** Prison near Montgomery, Alabama, the chair acquired its yellow color (and from it, the nickname "Yellow Mama") when it was painted with highway-line paint from the adjacent State Highway Department l...
1293. ...t installed at Kilby State Prison near Montgomery, Alabama, the chair acquired its yellow color (and from it, the nickname "Yellow Mama") when it was painted with highway-line paint from the adjacent **State** Highway Department lab. The chair was built by British inmate Ed Mason in 1927 and was first used to execute Horace DeVaughan in that year. Mason was rewarded for his efforts with a 30-day pass, but...
1294. ...British inmate Ed Mason in 1927 and was first used to execute Horace DeVaughan in that year. Mason was rewarded for his efforts with a 30-day pass, but he absconded and was later found in a New York **state** penitentiary. The last person put to death in Yellow Mama was Lynda Lyon Block, who was executed in 2002. The chair has since been stored in an attic above the execution chamber at the Holman Correct...
1295. ...n Correctional Facility. Before 1923, executions in Alabama were the responsibility of the individual counties, which carried them out by hanging in private gallows. In 1923, legislation provided for **state**-performed executions by electrocution. At Kilby Prison in Montgomery, a special room was designated for this purpose. Inmate Ed Mason, a master carpenter by trade who was serving 60 years for theft a...
1296. ...an Prison. The first execution by electrocution in Alabama was performed in the Yellow Mama on April 8, 1927. Between 1930 and 1976 there were 135 executions completed using Yellow Mama. In 1983, the **State** Senate Judiciary Committee voted in favor of using lethal injections in place of electrocutions. However, the bill failed. In 1997, a bill was discussed which would allow the condemned prisoners to b...
1297. ...the option of lethal injection. Alabama has experienced several problematic executions involving the chair. On April 22, 1983, John Louis Evans, the first post-"Furman" prisoner to be executed by the **state**, was hit with an initial jolt of electricity, which lasted 30 seconds. Evans's body tensed up, causing the electrode on his left leg to snap off. Soon, smoke and flames were shooting out from under t...
1298. ...still alive. Ignoring Evans's lawyer's plea, a third jolt of electricity was applied, and he died. The execution took a total of 24 minutes and his body was left charred and smoldering. In 1989, the **state** executed Horace Dunkins, who had an IQ of 69 and was convicted of murdering Lynn McCurry. In Dunkins's execution, the first jolt of electricity only knocked him unconscious. Charlie Jones, the warden...
1299. ...to choose execution by either lethal injection or electrocution. Yellow Mama remains in storage in the event a future death row inmate elects to have the death sentence carried out by electrocution. **State** representative Lynn Greer sponsored legislation to return to using the electric chair if lethal injection drugs cannot be obtained. HB18 passed the Alabama House in 2015, but died in the Senate Judic...
1300. ...satisfies the full Yang–Mills–Higgs equations of motion. Suppose the vacuum is the vacuum manifold formula_9. Then, for finite energies, as we move along each direction towards spatial infinity, the **state** along the path approaches a point on the vacuum manifold formula_9. Otherwise, we would not have a finite energy. In topologically trivial 3 + 1 dimensions, this means spatial infinity is homotopical...
1301. ...an island off the tip Wisconsin's Door Peninsula. Thordarson established a private vacation retreat on Rock Island. He was intensely interested in preserving the island’s natural beauty. In 1965 the **state** of Wisconsin purchased Rock Island from his heirs. Thordarson's former estate has been designated Rock Island State Park. His buildings, including the water tower, were added to the National Register...
1302. ...He was intensely interested in preserving the island’s natural beauty. In 1965 the state of Wisconsin purchased Rock Island from his heirs. Thordarson's former estate has been designated Rock Island **State** Park. His buildings, including the water tower, were added to the National Register of Historic Places as the Thordarson Estate Historic District during 1985. Thordarson bequeathed his book collectio...
1303. ...of 2-dimensional (2D) electrons shows precisely quantized plateaus at fractional values of formula_1, where "e" is the electron charge and "h" is the Planck constant. It is a property of a collective **state** in which electrons bind magnetic flux lines to make new quasiparticles, and excitations have a fractional elementary charge and possibly also fractional statistics. The 1998 Nobel Prize in Physics wa...
1304. ...nsed matter physics. The fractional quantum Hall effect (FQHE) is a collective behavior in a 2D system of electrons. In particular magnetic fields, the electron gas condenses into a remarkable liquid **state**, which is very delicate, requiring high quality material with a low carrier concentration, and extremely low temperatures. As in the integer quantum Hall effect, the Hall resistance undergoes certain...
1305. ...ctivity compared to alkanes, alkanes are in fact more polarizable. This results because of alkene's and arene's more electronegative sp carbons to the alkane's less electronegative sp carbons. Ground **state** electron configuration models often describe molecular or bond polarization during chemical reactions poorly, because reactive intermediates may be excited, or be the minor, alternate structures in a...
1306. ...n neuron). Sodium (Na) and potassium ions inside and outside the cell are moved by a sodium potassium pump, ensuring that electrochemical equilibrium remains unreached to allow the cell to maintain a **state** of resting membrane potential. In the graph of an action potential, the hyper-polarization section looks like a downward dip that goes lower than the line of resting membrane potential. In this after...
1307. ...ok through a slab of ice. Sears Kenmore sold a free-standing oven/stove with four induction-cooking surfaces in the mid-1980s (Model Number 103.9647910). The unit also had a self-cleaning oven, solid-**state** kitchen timer and capacitive-touch control buttons, advanced for the time. The units were more expensive than standard cooking surfaces. In 2009 Panasonic developed an all-metal induction cooker that...
1308. ...Those changes were quickly followed up and 1987 saw the publication of a new "Flash" comic, initially written by Mike Baron. These stories focused not only on the Flash's superhero exploits, but the **state** of Wally's wealth. West won a lottery, bought a large mansion, and began dating beautiful women. The character's finances and luck continued to ebb and wane until "The Flash" vol. 2 #62, when his for...
1309. ...aying his skin and muscle during the fight against his former friend, who is intent on killing both Hal and Barry, seeing how they both died and in the eyes of the Black Lanterns, must return to that **state** to keep the universe in balance. After fighting off the undead Martian and the subsequent Black Lanterns with Hal and the arriving Atom, Mera, Firestorm, and two of the Indigo Tribe members, Barry, a...
1310. ...orts underway to harmonize the different standards in existence. Radio base licensing procedures have been established in the majority of urban spaces regulated either at municipal/county, provincial/**state** or national level. Mobile telephone service providers are, in many regions, required to obtain construction licenses, provide certification of antenna emission levels and assure compliance to ICNIRP...
1311. ...craft in flight at low level. Ionic air propulsion is a technique for creating a flow of air through electrical energy, without any moving parts. Because of this it is sometimes described as a "solid-**state**" drive. It is based on the principle of electrohydrodynamics. In its basic form, it consists of two parallel conductive electrodes, a leading emitter wire and a downstream collector. When such an arr...
1312. ...formula_2 from the plane of the central coil of radius formula_3.  Maxwell specified the number of windings as 64 for the central coil and 49 for the outer coils. Though Maxwell did not specifically **state** that current for the coils came from the same source, his work was specifically describing the construction of a sensitive galvanometer designed to detect a single current source. It follows that the...
1313. ...companies, because of their high cost and the advent of dual signaling with its comparatively lower cost, their use is being phased out. Direct connections are now most usually seen only in federal, **state**, and local government buildings, or on a school campus that has a dedicated security, police, fire, or emergency medical department. In the United Kingdom, communication is only possible to an alarm...
1314. ...larms occur when an unintended event evokes an alarm status by an otherwise properly working alarm system. A false alarm also occurs when there is an alarm system malfunction that results in an alarm **state**. In all three circumstances, the source of the problem should be immediately found and fixed, so that responders will not lose confidence in the alarm reports. It is easier to know when there are fal...
1315. ...e (tungsten crucible) containing the material. The accelerated electron beam, incident on the anode, heats the crucible, together with its contents, to a high temperature. After establishing a steady-**state** density of the evaporating anode material atoms, and when the voltage applied is high enough, a bright discharge is ignited between the electrodes. Capacitor plague The capacitor plague was a problem...
1316. ...ny, was the first to die in Louisiana's electric chair; he was electrocuted in the Livingston Parish Jail on September 11, 1941. In 1957, it was decided to build an execution chamber at the Louisiana **State** Penitentiary to carry out all executions in Louisiana. Notable executions in the chair were those of Elmo Patrick Sonnier (the inmate on whom the film "Dead Man Walking" was based) and Willie Francis...
1317. ...Walking" was based) and Willie Francis (the only inmate to survive the electric chair; he was ultimately executed after the first attempt failed). From passage of legislation in 1991 until 2024, the **State** of Louisiana opted for the use of lethal injection as the sole method of execution. The last person executed on "Gruesome Gertie" was Andrew Lee Jones, on July 22, 1991. During its fifty years, "Grue...
1318. ...t to the system is a sinusoid, then the output of the system will also be a sinusoid, perhaps with a different amplitude and a different phase, but always with the same frequency upon reaching steady-**state**. LTI systems cannot produce frequency components that are not in the input. LTI system theory is good at describing many important systems. Most LTI systems are considered "easy" to analyze, at least...
1319. ...coil generates a magnetic field which in turn accelerates the workpiece to hyper speed and onto the die. The magnetic pulse and the extreme deformation speed transforms the metal into a visco-plastic **state** – increasing formability without affecting the native strength of the material. See the magnetic pulse forming illustration for a visualization. A rapidly changing magnetic field induces a circulatin...
1320. ...shold slope. Subthreshold slope is used as a figure of merit for the switching efficiency of a transistor. In digital circuits, subthreshold conduction is generally viewed as a parasitic leakage in a **state** that would ideally have no conduction. In micropower analog circuits, on the other hand, weak inversion is an efficient operating region, and subthreshold is a useful transistor mode around which cir...
1321. ...eshold voltage has been insignificant compared to the full range of gate voltage between the ground and supply voltages, which allowed for gate voltages significantly below the threshold in the "off" **state**. As gate voltages scaled down with transistor size, the room for gate voltage swing below the threshold voltage drastically reduced, and the subthreshold conduction became a significant part of the o...
1322. ...s gate voltages scaled down with transistor size, the room for gate voltage swing below the threshold voltage drastically reduced, and the subthreshold conduction became a significant part of the off-**state** leakage of a transistor. For a technology generation with threshold voltage of 0.2 V, subthreshold conduction, along with other leakage modes, can account for 50% of total power consumption.  Some de...
1323. ...on melting furnace. This vacuum remelting process rids the steel of inclusions and unwanted gases while optimizing the chemical composition. The VIM operation returns these solid ingots to the molten **state** in the contaminant-free void of a vacuum. This tightly controlled melt often requires up to 24 hours. Still enveloped by the vacuum, the hot metal flows from the VIM furnace crucible into giant elect...
1324. ...charge distributions which are a distance "R" apart. Since formula_53 this expansion is manifestly in powers of . The function is a normalized spherical harmonic. All atoms and molecules (except "S"-**state** atoms) have one or more non-vanishing permanent multipole moments. Different definitions can be found in the literature, but the following definition in spherical form has the advantage that it is co...
1325. ...in the other. Modern potential theory is also intimately connected with probability and the theory of Markov chains. In the continuous case, this is closely related to analytic theory. In the finite **state** space case, this connection can be introduced by introducing an electrical network on the state space, with resistance between points inversely proportional to transition probabilities and densities...
1326. ...ory of Markov chains. In the continuous case, this is closely related to analytic theory. In the finite state space case, this connection can be introduced by introducing an electrical network on the **state** space, with resistance between points inversely proportional to transition probabilities and densities proportional to potentials. Even in the finite case, the analogue I-K of the Laplacian in potent...
1327. ...e electron, conservation of energy in the sheath potential requires where formula_6 is the charge of the electron taken positively, i.e. formula_7 x formula_8 formula_9. Ion continuity: In the steady **state**, the ions do not build up anywhere, so the flux is everywhere the same: Boltzmann relation for the electrons: Since most of the electrons are reflected, their density is given by Poisson's equation:...
1328. ...which constricts the arc and the plasma exits the orifice at high velocities (approaching the speed of sound) and a temperature approaching 28,000 °C (50,000 °F) or higher. Arc plasma is a temporary **state** of a gas. The gas gets ionized by electric current passing through it and it becomes a conductor of electricity. In ionized state, atoms are broken into electrons (−) and cations (+) and the system c...
1329. ...pproaching 28,000 °C (50,000 °F) or higher. Arc plasma is a temporary state of a gas. The gas gets ionized by electric current passing through it and it becomes a conductor of electricity. In ionized **state**, atoms are broken into electrons (−) and cations (+) and the system contains a mixture of ions, electrons and highly excited atoms. The degree of ionization may be between 1% and greater than 100% (p...
1330. ...rmula_12 satisfying with the condition for physical states formula_15 and formula_16 in the Fock space (it is understood that physical states are really equivalence classes of states that differ by a **state** of zero norm). This is not the same thing as Note that if O is any gauge invariant operator, does not depend upon the choice of the representatives of the equivalence classes, and so, this quantity i...
1331. ...possible orientations, up and down, give the same energy. The third spin cannot simultaneously minimize its interactions with both of the other two. Since this effect occurs for each spin, the ground **state** is sixfold degenerate. Only the two states where all spins are up or down have more energy. Similarly in three dimensions, four spins arranged in a tetrahedron (Figure 2) may experience geometric fru...
1332. ...eft and right vectors cancel out (i.e. are antiferromagnetically aligned), as do forwards and backwards. There are three different equivalent arrangements with two spins out and two in, so the ground **state** is three-fold degenerate. The mathematical definition is simple (and analogous to the so-called Wilson loop in quantum chromodynamics): One considers for example expressions ("total energies" or "Ham...
1333. ...gen ions. There are two equivalent positions a hydrogen may occupy on the line of the O–O bond, a far and a near position. Thus a rule leads to the frustration of positions of the proton for a ground **state** configuration: for each oxygen two of the neighboring protons must reside in the far position and two of them in the near position, so-called ‘ice rules’. Pauling proposed that the open tetrahedral s...
1334. ...wever, among the 16 possible configurations associated with each oxygen, only 6 are energetically favorable, maintaining the HO molecule constraint. Then an upper bound of the numbers that the ground **state** can take is estimated as "Ω" < 2(). Correspondingly the configurational entropy "S" = "k"ln("Ω") = "Nk"ln() = 0.81 cal/(K·mol) = 3.4 J/(mol·K) is in amazing agreement with the missing entropy measure...
1335. ...rochlore structure with one magnetic atom or ion residing on each of the four corners. Due to the strong crystal field in the material, each of the magnetic ions can be represented by an Ising ground **state** doublet with a large moment. This suggests a picture of Ising spins residing on the corner-sharing tetrahedral lattice with spins fixed along the local quantization axis, the <111> cubic axes, which...
1336. ...hedron, allows for a perfect propagation of the pentagonal order. It is called an "ideal" (defect-free) model for the considered structure. The stability of metals is a longstanding question of solid **state** physics, which can only be understood in the quantum mechanical framework by properly taking into account the interaction between the positively charged ions and the valence and conduction electrons....
1337. ...light, temperature) or chemical (concentrations) stimuli. The volume change of these materials occurs by swelling/shrinking and is diffusion-based. Gels provide the biggest change in volume of solid-**state** materials. Combined with an excellent compatibility with micro-fabrication technologies, especially stimuli-responsive hydrogels are of strong increasing interest for microsystems with sensors and ac...
1338. ...r a large power station to approach the operational efficiency of computer models, steps must be taken to increase the electrical conductivity of the conductive substance. Heating a gas to its plasma **state**, or adding other easily ionizable substances like the salts of alkali metals, can help to accomplish this. In practice, a number of issues must be considered in the implementation of an MHD generator...
1339. ...red equally among several tubes in parallel. (Note the equivalent behavior with series and parallel connected Zener diodes.) In the present day, VR tubes have been almost-entirely supplanted by solid **state** regulators based on Zener diodes and avalanche breakdown diodes. Correctly operating VR tubes glow during normal operation. The color of the glow varies depending upon the gas mixture used to fill th...
1340. ...engineering, the symbol formula_12, called the "phase constant", is often used instead of formula_11. The propagation velocity of electromagnetic waves in free space, an idealized standard reference **state** (like absolute zero for temperature), is conventionally denoted by "c":  For a general introduction, see Serway For a discussion of synthetic media, see Joannopoulus. Huemul Project The Huemul Projec...
1341. ...m/s and that the fuel was either lithium hydride or deuterium which was introduced into pre-heated hydrogen. He was careful to explain that these were small-scale experimental results, and refused to **state** whether it would work well at the industrial scale. On 7 April, Perón awarded Richter the gold Peronista Party Medal in a highly publicized event. With the U.S. refusing any support for the program,...
1342. ...In the case of anti-parallel, the dipole moments may or may not cancel each other (antiferromagnetism, ferrimagnetism). We take a very simple situation in which each atom can be approximated as a two **state** system. The thermal energy is so low that the atom is in the ground state. In this ground state, the atom is assumed to have no net orbital angular momentum but only one unpaired electron to give it...
1343. ...h other (antiferromagnetism, ferrimagnetism). We take a very simple situation in which each atom can be approximated as a two state system. The thermal energy is so low that the atom is in the ground **state**. In this ground state, the atom is assumed to have no net orbital angular momentum but only one unpaired electron to give it a spin of the half. In the presence of an external magnetic field, the gro...
1344. ...etism, ferrimagnetism). We take a very simple situation in which each atom can be approximated as a two state system. The thermal energy is so low that the atom is in the ground state. In this ground **state**, the atom is assumed to have no net orbital angular momentum but only one unpaired electron to give it a spin of the half. In the presence of an external magnetic field, the ground state will split i...
1345. ...this ground state, the atom is assumed to have no net orbital angular momentum but only one unpaired electron to give it a spin of the half. In the presence of an external magnetic field, the ground **state** will split into two states having an energy difference proportional to the applied field. The spin of the unpaired electron is parallel to the field in the higher energy state and anti-parallel in th...
1346. ...netic field, the ground state will split into two states having an energy difference proportional to the applied field. The spin of the unpaired electron is parallel to the field in the higher energy **state** and anti-parallel in the lower one. A density matrix, formula_4, is a matrix that describes a quantum system in a mixed state, a statistical ensemble of several quantum states (here several similar 2...
1347. ...in of the unpaired electron is parallel to the field in the higher energy state and anti-parallel in the lower one. A density matrix, formula_4, is a matrix that describes a quantum system in a mixed **state**, a statistical ensemble of several quantum states (here several similar 2-state atoms). This should be contrasted with a single state vector that describes a quantum system in a pure state. The expec...
1348. ...and anti-parallel in the lower one. A density matrix, formula_4, is a matrix that describes a quantum system in a mixed state, a statistical ensemble of several quantum states (here several similar 2-**state** atoms). This should be contrasted with a single state vector that describes a quantum system in a pure state. The expectation value of a measurement, formula_5, over the ensemble is formula_6. In ter...
1349. ...formula_4, is a matrix that describes a quantum system in a mixed state, a statistical ensemble of several quantum states (here several similar 2-state atoms). This should be contrasted with a single **state** vector that describes a quantum system in a pure state. The expectation value of a measurement, formula_5, over the ensemble is formula_6. In terms of a complete set of states, formula_7, one can wri...
1350. ...in a mixed state, a statistical ensemble of several quantum states (here several similar 2-state atoms). This should be contrasted with a single state vector that describes a quantum system in a pure **state**. The expectation value of a measurement, formula_5, over the ensemble is formula_6. In terms of a complete set of states, formula_7, one can write Von Neumann's equation tells us how the density matr...
1351. ...ls us how the density matrix evolves with time. In equilibrium, one has formula_10, and the allowed density matrices are formula_11. The canonical ensemble has formula_12, where formula_13. For the 2-**state** system, we can write formula_14. Here formula_15 is the gyromagnetic ratio. Hence formula_16, and From which  In the presence of a uniform external magnetic field formula_19 along the z-direction, th...
1352. ....t. atomic excitation energies. Degeneracy of the original Hamiltonian is handled by choosing a basis which diagonalizes formula_23 in the degenerate subspaces. Let formula_25 be such a basis for the **state** of the atom (rather the electrons in the atom). Let formula_26 be the change in energy in formula_27. So we get In our case we can ignore formula_29 and higher order terms. We get In case of diamagne...
1353. .... So we get In our case we can ignore formula_29 and higher order terms. We get In case of diamagnetic material, the first two terms are absent as they don't have any angular momentum in their ground **state**. In case of paramagnetic material all the three terms contribute. So far, we have assumed that the atoms do not interact with each other. Even though this is a reasonable assumption in the case of di...
1354. ...ssion. They were the primary method of high power rectification before the advent of semiconductor rectifiers, such as diodes, thyristors and gate turn-off thyristors (GTOs) in the 1970s. These solid **state** rectifiers have almost completely replaced mercury-arc rectifiers thanks to their higher reliability, lower cost and maintenance and lower environmental risk. In 1882 Jules Jamin and G. Maneuvrier ob...
1355. ...ng point, and allows controlled mercury-arc valves to form the active switching elements in an inverter converting direct current into alternating current. To maintain the valve in the non-conducting **state**, a negative bias of a few volts or tens of volts is applied to the grid. As a result, electrons emitted from the cathode are repelled away from the grid, back towards the cathode, and so are prevente...
1356. ...potential (with respect to the cathode). In HVDC applications, a full-wave three-phase bridge rectifier or "Graetz-bridge" circuit was usually used, each valve accommodated in a single tank. As solid-**state** metal rectifiers became available for low-voltage rectification in the 1920s, mercury arc tubes became limited to higher voltage and especially high-power applications. Mercury-arc valves were widely...
1357. ...ble-voltage power supplies for large radio transmitters. Mercury-arc stations were used to provide DC power to legacy Edison-style DC power grids in urban centers until the 1950s. In the 1960s, solid-**state** silicon devices, first diodes and then thyristors, replaced all lower-power and lower voltage rectifier applications of mercury arc tubes. Several electric locomotives, including the New Haven EP5 an...
1358. ...s 20-year anniversary; the "reunion" was again chaired by Maple. Pull-up resistor In electronic logic circuits, a pull-up resistor (PU) or pull-down resistor (PD) is a resistor used to ensure a known **state** for a signal. It is typically used in combination with components such as switches and transistors, which physically interrupt the connection of subsequent components to ground or to V. Without such...
1359. ...ed to be the first commercial company to demonstrate fusion. Fusion reactions can be categorized according to their neutronicity: the fraction of the fusion energy released as energetic neutrons. The **State** of New Jersey defined an aneutronic reaction as one in which neutrons carry no more than 1% of the total released energy, although many papers on the subject include reactions that do not meet this c...
1360. ...is provided by collisions with other fuel ions. In a thermalized fluid like a plasma, the temperature corresponds to an energy spectrum according to the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution. Gases in this **state** have some particles with high energy even if the average energy is much lower. Fusion devices rely on this distribution; even at bulk temperatures far below the Coulomb barrier energy, the energy rel...
1361. ...the wire loop. The decrease in inductance tends to decrease the electrical impedance of the wire to alternating current. The decrease in impedance actuates the electronics unit output relay or solid-**state** optically isolated output, which sends a pulse to the traffic signal controller signifying the passage or presence of a vehicle.  Parking structures for automobiles may use inductive loops to track t...
1362. ...study of environment, animals and plants around the Chernobyl disaster area has revealed an unexpected survival of many species, despite the high radiation levels. A Brazilian study in a hill in the **state** of Minas Gerais which has high natural radiation levels from uranium deposits, has also shown many radioresistant insects, worms and plants. Certain extremophiles, such as the bacteria "Deinococcus r...
1363. ...is the same to this of a non-irradiated control group (food was not provided to either groups) (for 6,000 R/minute). However, a lower dose of 102,000 R (for 6,000 R/minute) is sufficient to induce a **state** of lethargy in "H. hebetor" that is manifested by a complete cessation of activity, including cessation of feeding, and these individuals eventually let themselves starve to death. And an even lower...
1364. ...The length of time during which a dose of radiation is delivered—with doses delivered during longer periods, or at time intervals, being associated with greatly reduced negative effects; The feeding **state** of individuals—with pre-fed and post-fed individuals being more resistant to radiations compared to starved individuals; The type of radiation used (e.g., tardigrades "Milnesium tardigradum" irradiat...
1365. ...pe of radiation used (e.g., tardigrades "Milnesium tardigradum" irradiated with heavy ions have a higher survival than when irradiated with gamma rays, for a same irradiation dose); The physiological **state** of individuals (e.g., the tardigrade species "Richtersius coronifer" and "Milnesium tardigradum" are more resistant to gamma-ray radiation when in the hydrated state, and "Macrobiotus areolatus" is m...
1366. ...adiation dose); The physiological state of individuals (e.g., the tardigrade species "Richtersius coronifer" and "Milnesium tardigradum" are more resistant to gamma-ray radiation when in the hydrated **state**, and "Macrobiotus areolatus" is more resistant to X-ray radiation when in the anhydrobiotic state). The way lethality is measured is also source of variation for the estimated radioresistance of a sp...
1367. ...coronifer" and "Milnesium tardigradum" are more resistant to gamma-ray radiation when in the hydrated state, and "Macrobiotus areolatus" is more resistant to X-ray radiation when in the anhydrobiotic **state**). The way lethality is measured is also source of variation for the estimated radioresistance of a species. Irradiated specimens are not instantly killed, unless exposed to a very high dose (acute do...
1368. ...is theorem, using Maxwell's equations and Lie derivatives. It is a limiting case of Birkhoff's theorem (relativity) by taking the flat metric without backreaction. The source-free Maxwell's equations **state** that formula_1 Since the fields are spherically symmetric, they depend only on the radial distance in spherical coordinates. The field is purely radial as non-radial components cannot be invariant un...
1369. ...gain factor A fusion energy gain factor, usually expressed with the symbol Q, is the ratio of fusion power produced in a nuclear fusion reactor to the power required to maintain the plasma in steady **state**. The condition of "Q" = 1, when the power being released by the fusion reactions is equal to the required heating power, is referred to as breakeven, or in some sources, scientific breakeven. The ene...
1370. ...the power being released by the fusion reactions in a reactor, "P", to the constant heating power being supplied, "P", in normal operating conditions. For those designs that do not run in the steady **state**, but are instead pulsed, the same calculation can be made by summing all of the fusion energy produced in "P" and all of the energy expended producing the pulse in "P". However, there are several def...
1371. ...different operating systems. Of particular note is the concept of inertial confinement fusion, or ICF. The magnetic approaches, MCF for short, are generally designed to operate in the (quasi) steady **state**. That is, the plasma is maintained in fusion conditions for time scales much longer than the fusion reactions, on the order of seconds or minutes. The goal is to allow most of the fuel time to underg...
1372. ...occur very rapidly. In an MCF device, the initial plasma is set up and maintained by large magnets, which in modern superconducting devices requires very little energy to run. Once set up, the steady **state** is maintained by injecting heat into the plasma with a variety of devices. These devices represent the vast majority of the energy needed to keep the system running. They are also relatively efficien...
1373. ...ded to keep the system running. They are also relatively efficient, with perhaps as much as half of the electricity fed into them ending up as energy in the plasma. For this reason, "P" in the steady **state** is something fairly close to all of the energy being fed into the reactor, and the efficiency of the heating systems is generally ignored. When the total efficiency is considered then it is generally...
1374. ...ver People. Whenever Infinity-Man is needed, the Forever People grant him special powers by touching their Mother Boxes and reciting the word "Taaru". This ritual causes the Forever People to enter a **state** of limbo which lasts until Infinity-Man returns power to them. In one story, Darkseid believes Infinity-Man to be a threat and places him in another dimension. Subsequently, he resides on the planet...
1375. ...st the magnetization reversal process. To increase the coercivity, impurities are intentionally added during the fabrication process. Samarium–cobalt alloys are typically machined in the unmagnetized **state**. Samarium–cobalt should be ground using a wet grinding process (water-based coolants) and a diamond grinding wheel. The same type of process is required if drilling holes or other features that are c...
1376. ...ster employs a simple narrow spark gap, over which an arc will jump when a high voltage is present. While a low cost solution, its high triggering voltage offers almost no protection for modern solid-**state** electronic devices powered by the protected circuit. Capacitors are used as shunts to redirect high-frequency noise to ground before it can propagate to the load or other circuit components. The term...
1377. ...bonds are shared equally between atoms, regardless of relative electronegativity. In simple terms, formal charge is the difference between the number of valence electrons of an atom in a neutral free **state** and the number assigned to that atom in a Lewis structure. When determining the best Lewis structure (or predominant resonance structure) for a molecule, the structure is chosen such that the formal...
1378. ...possible.  The formal charge of any atom in a molecule can be calculated by the following equation: formula_1 where is the number of valence electrons of the neutral atom in isolation (in its ground **state**); is the number of non-bonding valence electrons assigned to this atom in the Lewis structure of the molecule; and is the total number of electrons shared in bonds with other atoms in the molecule. I...
1379. ...n the Lewis structure of the molecule; and is the total number of electrons shared in bonds with other atoms in the molecule. It can also be found visually as shown below. Formal charge and oxidation **state** both assign a number to each individual atom within a compound; they are compared and contrasted in a section below. Even though all three structures gave us a total charge of zero, the final structu...
1380. ...ectron density around the oxygen atoms due to their higher electronegativity compared to the carbon atom. This can be most effectively visualized in an electrostatic potential map. With the oxidation **state** formalism, the electrons in the bonds are "awarded" to the atom with the greater electronegativity. The oxidation state view of the CO molecule is shown below:  Oxidation states overemphasize the ion...
1381. ...st effectively visualized in an electrostatic potential map. With the oxidation state formalism, the electrons in the bonds are "awarded" to the atom with the greater electronegativity. The oxidation **state** view of the CO molecule is shown below:  Oxidation states overemphasize the ionic nature of the bonding; the difference in electronegativity between carbon and oxygen is insufficient to regard the bo...
1382. ...nd M. Evans, "The Photomagneton and Quantum Field Theory: Vol. 1 of Quantum Chemistry," World Scientific, 1994 Superconducting quantum computing Superconducting quantum computing is a branch of solid **state** physics and quantum computing that implements superconducting electronic circuits using superconducting qubits as artificial atoms, or quantum dots. For superconducting qubits, the two logic states a...
1383. ...uantum computing that implements superconducting electronic circuits using superconducting qubits as artificial atoms, or quantum dots. For superconducting qubits, the two logic states are the ground **state** and the excited state, denoted formula_1respectively. Research in superconducting quantum computing is conducted by companies such as Google, IBM, IMEC, BBN Technologies, Rigetti, and Intel. Many rec...
1384. ...implements superconducting electronic circuits using superconducting qubits as artificial atoms, or quantum dots. For superconducting qubits, the two logic states are the ground state and the excited **state**, denoted formula_1respectively. Research in superconducting quantum computing is conducted by companies such as Google, IBM, IMEC, BBN Technologies, Rigetti, and Intel. Many recently developed QPUs (...
1385. ...n line with the postulates of quantum mechanics and the remaining two pertaining to the relaying of this information over a network. We map the ground and excited states of these atoms to the 0 and 1 **state** as these are discrete and distinct energy values and therefore it is in line with the postulates of quantum mechanics. In such a construction however an electron can jump to multiple other energy sta...
1386. ...rgy values and therefore it is in line with the postulates of quantum mechanics. In such a construction however an electron can jump to multiple other energy states and not be confined to our excited **state**; therefore, it is imperative that the system be limited to be affected only by photons with energy difference required to jump from the ground state to the excited state. However, this leaves one maj...
1387. ...r energy states and not be confined to our excited state; therefore, it is imperative that the system be limited to be affected only by photons with energy difference required to jump from the ground **state** to the excited state. However, this leaves one major issue, we require uneven spacing between our energy levels to prevent photons with the same energy from causing transitions between neighboring pa...
1388. ...ot be confined to our excited state; therefore, it is imperative that the system be limited to be affected only by photons with energy difference required to jump from the ground state to the excited **state**. However, this leaves one major issue, we require uneven spacing between our energy levels to prevent photons with the same energy from causing transitions between neighboring pairs of states. Joseph...
1389. ...tum superposition of both states. A quantum gate, on the other hand, is a generalization of a logic gate describing the transformation of one or more qubits once a gate is applied given their initial **state**. Physical implementation of qubits and gates is challenging for the same reason that quantum phenomena are difficult to observe in everyday life given the minute scale on which they occur. One approa...
1390. ...uperconductors, the basic charge carriers are pairs of electrons (known as Cooper pairs), rather than single fermions as found in typical conductors. Cooper pairs are loosely bound and have an energy **state** lower than that of Fermi Energy. Electrons forming Cooper pairs possess equal and opposite momentum and spin so that the total spin of the Cooper pair is an integer spin. Hence, Cooper pairs are boso...
1391. ...been used in superconducting qubit models are niobium and tantalum, both d-band superconductors. Once cooled to nearly absolute zero, a collection of bosons collapse into their lowest energy quantum **state** (the ground state) to form a state of matter known as Bose–Einstein condensate. Unlike fermions, bosons may occupy the same quantum energy level (or quantum state) and do not obey the Pauli exclusion...
1392. ...rconducting qubit models are niobium and tantalum, both d-band superconductors. Once cooled to nearly absolute zero, a collection of bosons collapse into their lowest energy quantum state (the ground **state**) to form a state of matter known as Bose–Einstein condensate. Unlike fermions, bosons may occupy the same quantum energy level (or quantum state) and do not obey the Pauli exclusion principle. Classi...
1393. ...models are niobium and tantalum, both d-band superconductors. Once cooled to nearly absolute zero, a collection of bosons collapse into their lowest energy quantum state (the ground state) to form a **state** of matter known as Bose–Einstein condensate. Unlike fermions, bosons may occupy the same quantum energy level (or quantum state) and do not obey the Pauli exclusion principle. Classically, Bose-Einst...
1394. ...pse into their lowest energy quantum state (the ground state) to form a state of matter known as Bose–Einstein condensate. Unlike fermions, bosons may occupy the same quantum energy level (or quantum **state**) and do not obey the Pauli exclusion principle. Classically, Bose-Einstein Condensate can be conceptualized as multiple particles occupying the same position in space and having equal momentum. Becau...
1395. ...junctions. Schematic wave solutions in the third row of the table show the complex amplitude of the phase variable. Specifically, if a qubit's phase is measured while the qubit occupies a particular **state**, there is a non-zero probability of measuring a specific value "only" where the depicted wave function oscillates. All three rows are essentially different presentations of the same physical system....
1396. ...r than the THz regime of electromagnetic radiation). Resonant excitation exchange among these artificial atoms is potentially useful for direct implementation of multi-qubit gates. Following the dark **state** manifold, the Khazali-Mølmer scheme performs complex multi-qubit operations in a single step, providing a substantial shortcut to the conventional circuit model. One popular gating mechanism uses two...
1397. ...vel separations. Applying microwave excitation to the first qubit, with a frequency resonant with the second qubit, causes a formula_26 rotation of the second qubit. Rotation direction depends on the **state** of the first qubit, allowing a controlled phase gate construction. Following the notation of, the drive Hamiltonian describing the excited system through the first qubit driving line is formally writ...
1398. ..., and the SWAP gates (see Quantum logic gate). Architecture-specific readout, or measurement, mechanisms exist. Readout of a phase qubit is explained in the qubit archetypes table above. A flux qubit **state** is often read using an adjustable DC-SQUID magnetometer. States may also be measured using an electrometer. A more general readout scheme includes a coupling to a microwave resonator, where resonance...
1399. ...may also be measured using an electrometer. A more general readout scheme includes a coupling to a microwave resonator, where resonance frequency of the resonator is dispersively shifted by the qubit **state**. Multi-level systems (qudits) can be readout using electron shelving. DiVincenzo's criteria is a list describing the requirements for a physical system to be capable of implementing a logical qubit....
1400. ...ightforward or easy to calculate. The nuclear magnetic moment varies from isotope to isotope of an element. For a nucleus of which the numbers of protons and of neutrons are "both" even in its ground **state** (i.e. lowest energy state), the nuclear spin and magnetic moment are both always zero. In cases with odd numbers of either or both protons and neutrons, the nucleus often has nonzero spin and magneti...
1401. ...culate. The nuclear magnetic moment varies from isotope to isotope of an element. For a nucleus of which the numbers of protons and of neutrons are "both" even in its ground state (i.e. lowest energy **state**), the nuclear spin and magnetic moment are both always zero. In cases with odd numbers of either or both protons and neutrons, the nucleus often has nonzero spin and magnetic moment. The nuclear magn...
1402. ...nal applied fields. Generally the methods based on external fields are more accurate. Different experimental techniques are designed in order to measure nuclear magnetic moments of a specific nuclear **state**. For instance, the following techniques are aimed to measure magnetic moments of an associated nuclear state in a range of life-times "τ": Techniques as Transient Field have allowed measuring the "g"...
1403. ...techniques are designed in order to measure nuclear magnetic moments of a specific nuclear state. For instance, the following techniques are aimed to measure magnetic moments of an associated nuclear **state** in a range of life-times "τ": Techniques as Transient Field have allowed measuring the "g"-factor in nuclear states with life-times of few picoseconds or less. According to the shell model, protons o...
1404. ...hermore, for odd–odd nuclei, there are two unpaired nucleons to be considered, as in deuterium. There is consequently a value for the nuclear magnetic moment associated with each possible "l" and "s" **state** combination, and the actual state of the nucleus is a superposition of these. Thus the real (measured) nuclear magnetic moment is between the values associated with the "pure" states, though it may b...
1405. ...are two unpaired nucleons to be considered, as in deuterium. There is consequently a value for the nuclear magnetic moment associated with each possible "l" and "s" state combination, and the actual **state** of the nucleus is a superposition of these. Thus the real (measured) nuclear magnetic moment is between the values associated with the "pure" states, though it may be close to one or the other (as in...
1406. ...ed, which is greater by a factor of 2"π". The quantized difference between energy levels corresponding to different orientations of the nuclear spin formula_2. The ratio of nuclei in the lower energy **state**, with spin aligned to the external magnetic field, is determined by the Boltzmann distribution. Thus, multiplying the dimensionless "g"-factor by the nuclear magneton and the applied magnetic field,...
1407. ...ff's circuit laws the following expressions for the voltage as well as for the current within the above considered length element (read square in the figure in this section) are obtained for a steady **state** situation where both voltage and current are not a function of time: By taking the limit formula_58 the following two differential equations are obtained: These two coupled differential equations can...
1408. ...he reactants and products. For a reaction of type A + B—C → A—B + C, the bond length extension for the newly formed A—B bond is defined as R* = R − R, where R is the A—B bond length in the transition **state** and R in the product molecule. Similarly for the bond which is broken in the reaction, R* = R − R, where R refers to the reactant molecule. For exothermic reactions, a PES is classified as "attractiv...
1409. ...is broken in the reaction, R* = R − R, where R refers to the reactant molecule. For exothermic reactions, a PES is classified as "attractive" (or "early-downhill") if R* > R*, so that the transition **state** is reached while the reactants are approaching each other. After the transition state, the A—B bond length continues to decrease, so that much of the liberated reaction energy is converted into vibra...
1410. ...xothermic reactions, a PES is classified as "attractive" (or "early-downhill") if R* > R*, so that the transition state is reached while the reactants are approaching each other. After the transition **state**, the A—B bond length continues to decrease, so that much of the liberated reaction energy is converted into vibrational energy of the A—B bond. An example is the harpoon reaction K + Br → K—Br + Br,...
1411. ...tions of product molecules can be detected by infrared chemiluminescence. In contrast the PES for the reaction H + Cl → HCl + Cl is "repulsive" (or "late-downhill") because R* < R* and the transition **state** is reached when the products are separating. For this reaction in which the atom A (here H) is lighter than B and C, the reaction energy is released primarily as translational kinetic energy of the p...
1412. ...potential energy surface was proposed for the H + H reaction by Henry Eyring and Michael Polanyi in 1931. Eyring used potential energy surfaces to calculate reaction rate constants in the transition **state** theory in 1935. Potential energy surfaces are commonly shown as three-dimensional graphs, but they can also be represented by two-dimensional graphs, in which the advancement of the reaction is plott...
1413. ...ns out for particles that make up ordinary matter (protons, neutrons, electrons, quarks, etc.) particles are of spin 1/2. Only two energy levels (eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian) exist for a spin 1/2 **state**: "up" spin, or +1/2, and "down" spin, or -1/2. Thus showing that the inherent quantum property of energy quantization is a direct result of electron spin. Using the formalisms of wave mechanics devel...
1414. ...la_26 and formula_27 of ions flowing in through operating aperture formula_28 of the electron-suppressor can be written in the form where formula_29 is elementary charge, formula_30 is the ion charge **state**, and formula_31 is the one-dimensional ion velocity distribution function. Therefore, the ion current at the ion-decelerating voltage formula_20 of the Faraday cup can be calculated by integrating Eq...
1415. ...al of the potential coil, and "i(t)" is the current with reference direction flowing into the ± terminal of the current coil. The wattmeter reads "P = (1/T) ∫ v(t)i(t) dt", which in sinusoidal steady-**state** reduces to "V" "I" cos(φ), where "T" is the period of "p(t)" and φ is the angle by which the current lags the voltage. The Hungarian Ottó Bláthy patented his AC wattmeter. In 1974 Maghar S. Chana, Ra...
1416. ...934 article by C. R. Cosens, while another timeless article was written by C. A. Stutt in 1949. Whereas traditional lock-in amplifiers use analog frequency mixers and RC filters for the demodulation, **state**-of-the-art instruments have both steps implemented by fast digital signal processing, for example, on an FPGA. Usually sine and cosine demodulation is performed simultaneously, which is sometimes als...
1417. ...nctions of the discrete fine electronic structure (for the lowest term) are obtained by diagonalization of the (2"L" + 1)(2"S" + 1)-dimensional matrix. At zero temperature ("T" = 0 K) only the lowest **state** is occupied. The magnetic moment at "T" = 0 K is equal to the moment of the ground state. It allows the evaluation of the total, spin and orbital moments. The eigenstates and corresponding eigenfunct...
1418. ...iagonalization of the (2"L" + 1)(2"S" + 1)-dimensional matrix. At zero temperature ("T" = 0 K) only the lowest state is occupied. The magnetic moment at "T" = 0 K is equal to the moment of the ground **state**. It allows the evaluation of the total, spin and orbital moments. The eigenstates and corresponding eigenfunctions formula_45 can be found from direct diagonalization of Hamiltonian matrix containing...
1419. ...ime; then the magnetic field vector components in the same spatial volume are solved at the next instant in time; and the process is repeated over and over again until the desired transient or steady-**state** electromagnetic field behavior is fully evolved. Finite difference schemes for time-dependent partial differential equations (PDEs) have been employed for many years in computational fluid dynamics p...
1420. ...t the spins excited are those of the electrons instead of the atomic nuclei. EPR spectroscopy is particularly useful for studying metal complexes and organic radicals. EPR was first observed in Kazan **State** University by Soviet physicist Yevgeny Zavoisky in 1944, and was developed independently at the same time by Brebis Bleaney at the University of Oxford. Every electron has a magnetic moment and spin...
1421. ...either antiparallel (formula_3) or parallel (formula_2) to the field, each alignment having a specific energy due to the Zeeman effect: where Therefore, the separation between the lower and the upper **state** is formula_11 for unpaired free electrons. This equation implies (since both formula_8and formula_10 are constant) that the splitting of the energy levels is directly proportional to the magnetic fie...
1422. ...microwaves, as represented by the double arrow in the diagram above. At this point the unpaired electrons can move between their two spin states. Since there typically are more electrons in the lower **state**, due to the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution (see below), there is a net absorption of energy, and it is this absorption that is monitored and converted into a spectrum. The upper spectrum below is the...
1423. ...of radicals is in thermodynamic equilibrium, its statistical distribution is described by the Boltzmann distribution: where formula_24 is the number of paramagnetic centers occupying the upper energy **state**, formula_25 is the Boltzmann constant, and formula_26 is the thermodynamic temperature. At 298 K, X-band microwave frequencies (formula_27 ≈ 9.75 GHz) give formula_28 ≈ 0.998, meaning that the upper...
1424. ...factor standards, Herb et al. introduced a precise procedure by using double resonance techniques based on the Overhauser shift. Since the source of an EPR spectrum is a change in an electron's spin **state**, the EPR spectrum for a radical (S = 1/2 system) would consist of one line. Greater complexity arises because the spin couples with nearby nuclear spins. The magnitude of the coupling is proportional...
1425. ...formula_65. EPR/ESR spectroscopy is used in various branches of science, such as biology, chemistry and physics, for the detection and identification of free radicals in the solid, liquid, or gaseous **state**, and in paramagnetic centers such as F-centers. EPR is a sensitive, specific method for studying both radicals formed in chemical reactions and the reactions themselves. For example, when ice (solid...
1426. ...result could not be used for any specific identification, the presence of an EPR signal validated the theory that free radical species were involved in electron transfer reactions as an intermediate **state**. Soon after, other groups discovered the possibility of coupling in situ electrolysis with EPR, producing the first resolved spectra of the nitrobenzene anion radical from a mercury electrode sealed...
1427. ...ates are highly reactive and unstable, thus necessitating a technique such as EPR that can identify radical species specifically.  In the field of quantum computing, pulsed EPR is used to control the **state** of electron spin qubits in materials such as diamond, silicon and gallium arsenide. High-field high-frequency EPR measurements are sometimes needed to detect subtle spectroscopic details. However, fo...
1428. ...ve ring and removed the battery that generated it. Upon measuring the electric current, Onnes found that its intensity did not diminish with the time. The current persisted due to the superconductive **state** of the conductive medium. In subsequent decades, superconductivity was found in several other materials; In 1913, lead at 7 K, in 1930's niobium at 10 K, and in 1941 niobium nitride at 16 K. The next...
1429. ...ifetime of the particle under investigation. For clarity, elementary excitations, or dressed particles (see quasi-particle), in interacting systems are distinct from stable particles in vacuum; their **state** functions consist of complicated superpositions of the eigenstates of the underlying many-particle system, which only momentarily, if at all, behave like those specific to isolated particles; the abo...
1430. ...simplifying assumptions this can be described without quantum field theory. In chemistry, the self-energy or Born energy of an ion is the energy associated with the field of the ion itself. In solid **state** and condensed-matter physics self-energies and a myriad of related quasiparticle properties are calculated by Green's function methods and Green's function (many-body theory) of interacting low-energ...
1431. ...as zero electrical resistance, so that eddy currents, induced by the motion of the material inside a magnetic field, will not decay. Fritz, at the Royal Society in 1935, stated that the thermodynamic **state** would be described by a single wave function. "Screening currents" also appear in a situation wherein an initially normal, conducting metal is placed inside a magnetic field. As soon as the metal is...
1432. ...This expulsion of magnetic field upon the cooling of the metal cannot be explained any longer by merely assuming zero resistance and is called the "Meissner effect". It shows that the superconducting **state** does not depend on the history of preparation, only upon the present values of temperature, pressure and magnetic field, and therefore is a true thermodynamic state. Vacuum polarization In quantum fi...
1433. ...It shows that the superconducting state does not depend on the history of preparation, only upon the present values of temperature, pressure and magnetic field, and therefore is a true thermodynamic **state**. Vacuum polarization In quantum field theory, and specifically quantum electrodynamics, vacuum polarization describes a process in which a background electromagnetic field produces virtual electron–p...
1434. ...For positive "J" the coupling is called ferromagnetic (parallel alignment of spins) and for negative "J" the coupling is called antiferromagnetic (antiparallel alignment of spins): a high spin ground **state**, a high zero-field-splitting (due to high magnetic anisotropy), and negligible magnetic interaction between molecules. The combination of these properties can lead to an energy barrier, so that at lo...
1435. ...ositive or negative magnetic moment, and the energy barrier between these two states greatly determines the molecule's relaxation time. This barrier depends on the total spin of the molecule's ground **state** and on its magnetic anisotropy. The latter quantity can be studied with EPR spectroscopy. The performance of single-molecule magnets is typically defined by two parameters: the effective barrier to s...
1436. ...were both found to be ideal for memory storage with a retrieval time of approximately 10 seconds. Another approach to information storage with SMM Fe involves the application of a gate voltage for a **state** transition from neutral to anionic. Using electrically gated molecular magnets offers the advantage of control over the cluster of spins during a shortened time scale. The electric field can be appli...
1437. ...impossible to tell whether or not it is twisted. However, if there were a straight line drawn along the length of the rod, then one could easily say whether or not there is a twist by looking at the **state** of the line. Drawing a line is gauge fixing. Drawing the line spoils the gauge symmetry, i.e., the circular symmetry U(1) of the cross section at each point of the rod. The line is the equivalent of...
1438. ...phenomenon. The photovoltaic effect is closely related to the photoelectric effect. For both phenomena, light is absorbed, causing excitation of an electron or other charge carrier to a higher-energy **state**. The main distinction is that the term "photoelectric effect" is now usually used when the electron is ejected out of the material (usually into a vacuum) and "photovoltaic effect" used when the exci...
1439. ...ayer of selenium covered with a thin film of gold, was experimented by Charles Fritts in 1884, but it had a very poor efficiency. However, the most familiar form of the photovoltaic effect uses solid-**state** devices, mainly in photodiodes. When sunlight or other sufficiently energetic light is incident upon the photodiode, the electrons present in the valence band absorb energy and, being excited, jump t...
1440. ...the movement of electrons and is described under electron correlation dynamics and also with the configuration interaction (CI) method. Static correlation is important for molecules where the ground **state** is well described only with more than one (nearly-)degenerate determinant. In this case the Hartree–Fock wavefunction (only one determinant) is qualitatively wrong. The multi-configurational self-con...
1441. ...of the Northern Water Tribe, Zuko captures Aang, but both nearly die in a snowstorm before they are rescued by Aang's friends, and Sokka. Zuko encounters Zhao and attacks him, but Aang, in the Avatar **State**, abducts Zhao before the fight is concluded. Zuko attempts to save Zhao from Aang, but Zhao is too proud to accept Zuko's help. Zuko survives the battle with help from Iroh, who betrayed Zhao to prot...
1442. ...om his father Ozai and sister Azula. His uncle Iroh becomes the one stable source of support in his life. Zuko begins the series selfishly obsessed with regaining his honor and is in a near perpetual **state** of rage but he eventually learns to let go of this anger to become a much calmer, rational, and selfless person. Zuko is a complex character who demonstrates a number of contradictory traits, beliefs...
1443. ...n, produced by small shifts in the positions of atoms and shifts in the distributions of electronic charge in the crystal structure. After the charge is removed, the dipoles retain their polarization **state**. Binary "0"s and "1"s are stored as one of two possible electric polarizations in each data storage cell. For example, in the figure a "1" is encoded using the negative remnant polarization "-Pr", an...
1444. ..." or "down" orientation (depending on the polarity of the charge), thereby storing a "1" or "0". Reading, however, is somewhat different than in DRAM. The transistor forces the cell into a particular **state**, say "0". If the cell already held a "0", nothing will happen in the output lines. If the cell held a "1", the re-orientation of the atoms in the film will cause a brief pulse of current in the outpu...
1445. ...eneral, the operation of FeRAM is similar to ferrite core memory, one of the primary forms of computer memory in the 1960s. However, compared to core memory, FeRAM requires far less power to flip the **state** of the polarity and does so much faster. The main determinant of a memory system's cost is the density of the components used to make it up. Smaller components, and fewer of them, means that more cel...
1446. ...rite, whereas current FeRAMs may complete a write in less than 150 ns. On the other hand, FeRAM has its own reliability issues, including imprint and fatigue. Imprint is the preferential polarization **state** from previous writes to that state, and fatigue is the increase of minimum writing voltage due to loss of polarization after extensive cycling. The theoretical speed of FeRAM is not entirely clear. E...
1447. ...mplete a write in less than 150 ns. On the other hand, FeRAM has its own reliability issues, including imprint and fatigue. Imprint is the preferential polarization state from previous writes to that **state**, and fatigue is the increase of minimum writing voltage due to loss of polarization after extensive cycling. The theoretical speed of FeRAM is not entirely clear. Existing 350 nm devices have read ti...
1448. ...rve in common magnetic fields. In bismuth the Ettingshausen coefficient is several orders of magnitude larger because of its poor thermal conductivity, . Carrier generation and recombination In solid-**state** physics of semiconductors, carrier generation and carrier recombination are processes by which mobile charge carriers (electrons and electron holes) are created and eliminated. Carrier generation and...
1449. ...d move from the valence band to the conduction band, producing two mobile carriers; while recombination describes processes by which a conduction band electron loses energy and re-occupies the energy **state** of an electron hole in the valence band. These processes must conserve quantized energy crystal momentum, and the vibrating lattice which plays a large role in conserving momentum as in collisions, p...
1450. ...n is significant only in direct bandgap materials. This process is also known as "bimolecular recombination""." This type of recombination depends on the density of electrons and holes in the excited **state**, denoted by formula_12 and formula_13 respectively. Let us represent the radiative recombination as formula_14 and the carrier generation rate as G. Total generation is the sum of thermal generation...
1451. ...ults in low internal quantum efficiency. In "Shockley-Read-Hall recombination" ("SRH"), also called "trap-assisted recombination", the electron in transition between bands passes through a new energy **state** (localized state) created within the band gap by a dopant or a defect in the crystal lattice; such energy states are called "traps". Non-radiative recombination occurs primarily at such sites. The en...
1452. ...nal quantum efficiency. In "Shockley-Read-Hall recombination" ("SRH"), also called "trap-assisted recombination", the electron in transition between bands passes through a new energy state (localized **state**) created within the band gap by a dopant or a defect in the crystal lattice; such energy states are called "traps". Non-radiative recombination occurs primarily at such sites. The energy is exchanged...
1453. ...ectronic devices. In the SRH model, four things can happen involving trap levels: When carrier recombination occurs through traps, we can replace the valence density of states by that of the intragap **state**. The term formula_54 is replaced by the density of trapped electrons/holes formula_55. formula_56 Where formula_57 is the density of trap states and formula_58 is the probability of that occupied sta...
1454. ...ate. The term formula_54 is replaced by the density of trapped electrons/holes formula_55. formula_56 Where formula_57 is the density of trap states and formula_58 is the probability of that occupied **state**. Considering a material containing both types of traps, we can define two trapping coefficients formula_59 and two de-trapping coefficients formula_60. In equilibrium, both trapping and de-trapping s...
1455. ...Then, the four rates as a function of formula_58 become: formula_63 Where formula_64 and formula_65 are the electron and hole densities when the quasi Fermi level matches the trap energy.  In steady-**state** condition, the net recombination rate of electrons should match the net recombination rate for holes, in other words: formula_66. This eliminates the occupation probability formula_58 and leads to th...
1456. ...n-equilibrium conditions when the carrier density is very high. The Auger effect process is not easily produced, because the third particle would have to begin the process in the unstable high-energy **state**. In thermal equilibrium the Auger recombination formula_70 and thermal generation rate formula_23 equal each other formula_72 where formula_73 are the Auger capture probabilities. The non-equilibrium...
1457. ...equal each other formula_72 where formula_73 are the Auger capture probabilities. The non-equilibrium Auger recombination rate formula_74 and resulting net recombination rate formula_75 under steady-**state** conditions are formula_76 The Auger lifetime formula_77 is given by formula_78 The mechanism causing LED efficiency droop was identified in 2007 as Auger recombination, which met with a mixed reactio...
1458. ...codes using local basis functions, like Gaussian, often effective core potentials are used that only freeze the core electrons.  First-principles pseudopotentials are derived from an atomic reference **state**, requiring that the pseudo- and all-electron valence eigenstates have the same energies and amplitude (and thus density) outside a chosen core cut-off radius formula_1. Pseudopotentials with larger c...
1459. ...features in different environments. Motivation: Approximations: Early applications of pseudopotentials to atoms and solids based on attempts to fit atomic spectra achieved only limited success. Solid-**state** pseudopotentials achieved their present popularity largely because of the successful fits by Walter Harrison to the nearly free electron Fermi surface of aluminum (1958) and by James C. Phillips to t...
1460. ...the threat Faudo could bring to the world and infiltrates Faudo's body in order to stop its resurrection. As they progress inside Faudo, Kiyo is killed in battle but is resuscitated into a catatonic **state** by Zatch. Zatch and friends move on and meet the one controlling Faudo, Zeno who reveals he is Zatch's twin brother. Kiyo awakens and with Zatch battles and defeats Zeno and sends Faudo back to the M...
1461. ...smic construction standards; a similar report was issued by a French nuclear safety organization in 1994. By 2010, three of these had been shut down, with the remaining three to be shut down by 2015. **State** electrician The official title of "state electrician" was given to some American state executioners in states using the electric chair during the early 20th century, including the New York State elec...
1462. ...port was issued by a French nuclear safety organization in 1994. By 2010, three of these had been shut down, with the remaining three to be shut down by 2015. State electrician The official title of "**state** electrician" was given to some American state executioners in states using the electric chair during the early 20th century, including the New York State electrician. The title itself is somewhat of...
1463. ...anization in 1994. By 2010, three of these had been shut down, with the remaining three to be shut down by 2015. State electrician The official title of "state electrician" was given to some American **state** executioners in states using the electric chair during the early 20th century, including the New York State electrician. The title itself is somewhat of a euphemism, while the persons appointed were...
1464. ...015. State electrician The official title of "state electrician" was given to some American state executioners in states using the electric chair during the early 20th century, including the New York **State** electrician. The title itself is somewhat of a euphemism, while the persons appointed were electricians by trade, the title on its own did not give any indication as to the true responsibilities of t...
1465. ...t when electrocution was introduced in New York, the first in the world ever to adopt it, it was felt that a trained electrician should be hired to operate the chair. Edwin Davis was New York's first **state** electrician. He carried out the execution of William Kemmler, the first man executed with the electric chair, and that of Martha M. Place, the first woman to be legally electrocuted. Davis also held...
1466. .... Davis also held patents on certain features of the electric chair and trained two of his successors, Robert G. Elliott and John Hulbert, who served as his assistants during executions. In New York, **state** electricians were not full-time employees, but they were hired specifically for each execution or set of executions. Since Sing Sing became the only prison in the state to house a death row and execu...
1467. ...uring executions. In New York, state electricians were not full-time employees, but they were hired specifically for each execution or set of executions. Since Sing Sing became the only prison in the **state** to house a death row and execution chamber, about a week before an electrocution was scheduled to be carried out, the warden would send a letter to the state electrician to notify him. The executione...
1468. ...e Sing Sing became the only prison in the state to house a death row and execution chamber, about a week before an electrocution was scheduled to be carried out, the warden would send a letter to the **state** electrician to notify him. The executioner would report in a few hours before the execution in order to test his equipment. He would also usually be the one securing the head electrode in place while...
1469. ...tion in order to test his equipment. He would also usually be the one securing the head electrode in place while prison guards adjusted the straps and placed the leg electrode on the prisoner's calf. **State** electrician Robert G. Elliott, who executed nearly 400 inmates in six states, including New York, developed an electrocution technique that came to be known as the "Elliott method" and was subsequent...
1470. ...states, including New York, developed an electrocution technique that came to be known as the "Elliott method" and was subsequently used by all of his successors in Sing Sing. After an execution, the **state** electrician was required to fill in a form containing the name and number of the executed prisoner, the time at which he had entered the chamber, the time at which he or she was brought out of it and...
1471. ...her. Some of this executioner's report cards still exist, and one was published by Scott Christianson in his book about the death house in Sing Sing. In brackets is the time period during which each **state** electrician, when his name is known, actively performed executions. IEC 61850 IEC 61850 is an international standard defining communication protocols for intelligent electronic devices at electrical...
1472. ...a Laboratory, in Keio University, Japan, using LEDs to transmit data by visible light. Since then there have been numerous research activities focussed on VLC. In 2006, researchers from CICTR at Penn **State** proposed a combination of power line communication (PLC) and white light LED to provide broadband access for indoor applications. This research suggested that VLC could be deployed as a perfect last-...
1473. ...indoor location market". Publications have been coming from Nakagawa Laboratory, ByteLight filed a patent on a light positioning system using LED digital pulse recognition in March 2012. COWA at Penn **State** and other researchers around the world. Another recent application is in the world of toys, thanks to cost-efficient and low-complexity implementation, which only requires one microcontroller and one...
1474. ...uicide bomber. Isis's powers paralleled those of Black Adam, granting her the ability to heal wounds of varying severity. Additionally, her control over nature was intricately linked to her emotional **state**, such that rain would fall indoors when she was sad, and flowers would bloom when she experienced joy. While her initial transformation was triggered by the phrase "I am Isis," subsequent transformat...
1475. ...surfaces, doping and band-bending of semiconductors, charge trapping in dielectrics and corrosion. The map of the work function produced by KPFM gives information about the composition and electronic **state** of the local structures on the surface of a solid. The SKP technique is based on parallel plate capacitor experiments performed by Lord Kelvin in 1898. In the 1930s William Zisman built upon Lord Kel...
1476. ...standing of plasma diffusion especially the Bohm diffusion remained elusive until the 1970s when Taylor and McNamara put forward a 2d guiding center plasma model. The concepts of negative temperature **state**, and of the convective cells contributed much to the understanding of the diffusion. The underlying physics may be explained as follows. The process can be a transport driven by the thermal fluctuati...
1477. ...cone. Sir Geoffrey Ingram Taylor described the theoretical shape of this cone based on the assumptions that (1) the surface of the cone is an equipotential surface and (2) the cone exists in a steady **state** equilibrium. To meet both of these criteria the electric field must have azimuthal symmetry and have formula_9 dependence to balance the surface tension and produce the cone. The solution to this pro...
1478. ...his own son, Prince Zuko, as an act of atonement. Instead, Ozai's wife Princess Ursa conspired with Ozai to assassinate Azulon and seize the leadership while Iroh was in mourning and disinterested in **state** affairs; with the life of her son on the line, she assisted Ozai in a successful poisoning of Azulon, accepting banishment for her role. Ozai ascended to the position of Fire Lord: although the event...
1479. ...that the still-mourning Iroh had no interest in challenging his brother for control of the nation, instead acquiescing to Ozai's investiture as Fire Lord and entering a permanent semi-retirement from **state** affairs. Iroh was believed to have killed off the last of the world's dragons, which along with his ability to breathe fire earned him the title "The Dragon of the West"; but in actuality he was secr...
1480. ...e Legend of Korra", he acts as the shopkeeper at the in-game Spirit Shop. Iroh appears as a playable character in "Nickelodeon All-Star Brawl 2" via downloadable content. Thermal Hall effect In solid-**state** physics, the thermal Hall effect, also known as the Righi–Leduc effect, named after independent co-discoverers Augusto Righi and Sylvestre Anatole Leduc, is the thermal analog of the Hall effect. Giv...
1481. ...as a low-energy approximation of the still more basic theory of quantum chromodynamics, which does not work perturbatively at low energies. The model is much inspired by the different field of solid **state** theory, particularly from the BCS breakthrough of 1957. The model was introduced in a joint article of Yoichiro Nambu (who also contributed essentially to the theory of superconductivity, i.e., by th...
1482. ...ns during the negative voltage period. As a result, the term "electric wind" has been suggested as a more accurate terminology. This phenomenon is now used in an MIT ionic wind plane, the first solid-**state** plane, developed in 2018. B. Wilson in 1750 demonstrated the recoil force associated to the same corona discharge and precursor to the ion thruster was the corona discharge pinwheel. The corona disch...
1483. ...eviates by a small amount from its center position. The gap sensors are usually inductive in nature and sense in a differential mode. The power amplifiers in a modern commercial application are solid **state** devices which operate in a pulse-width modulation (PWM) configuration. The controller is usually a microprocessor or DSP. NASA has been developing a launch aid using a magnetic levitation system to p...
1484. ...capacitor dominates. Metastability (electronics) In electronics, metastability is the ability of a digital electronic system to persist for an unbounded time in an unstable equilibrium or metastable **state**. In digital logic circuits, a digital signal is required to be within certain voltage or current limits to represent a '0' or '1' logic level for correct circuit operation; if the signal is within a...
1485. ...imultaneous Set and Reset inputs. After both Set and Reset inputs change to false, the flip-flop will (eventually) end up in one of two stable states, one of Q and true and the other false. The final **state** will depend on which of R or S returns to zero first, chronologically, but if both transition at about the same time, the resulting metastability, with intermediate or oscillatory output levels, can...
1486. ...ro first, chronologically, but if both transition at about the same time, the resulting metastability, with intermediate or oscillatory output levels, can take arbitrarily long to resolve to a stable **state**. In electronics, an "arbiter" is a circuit designed to determine which of several signals arrive first. Arbiters are used in asynchronous circuits to order computational activities for shared resourc...
1487. ...Although they can minimize the occurrence of metastability to very low probabilities, all arbiters nevertheless have metastable states, which are unavoidable at the boundaries of regions of the input **state** space resulting in different outputs. Synchronous circuit design techniques make digital circuits that are resistant to the failure modes that can be caused by metastability. A clock domain is define...
1488. ...mode in equipment. Serious computer and digital hardware bugs caused by metastability have a fascinating social history. Many engineers have refused to believe that a bistable device can enter into a **state** that is neither "true" nor "false" and has a positive probability that it will remain indefinite for any given period of time, albeit with exponentially decreasing probability over time. However, met...
1489. ...cell. It is these ions that alter the membrane potential. Ions are subject to two main forces, diffusion and electrostatic repulsion. Ions will tend towards their equilibrium potential, which is the **state** where the diffusion force cancels out the force of electrostatic repulsion. When a membrane is at its equilibrium potential, there is no longer a net movement of ions. Two important equations that ca...
1490. ...ed; they are all-or-none responses. Postsynaptic potentials begin to be terminated when the neurotransmitter detaches from its receptor. The receptor is then free to return to its previous structural **state**. Ion channels that had been opened by the receptor when the neurotransmitter was bound to it will now close. Once the channels are closed, ions return to their equilibrium states, and the membrane is...
1491. ...S.H.I.E.L.D. agent Clay Quartermain. Purple Man uses his powers to make it seem as if Scott had been consumed by ants. When Jack of Hearts reappears on the grounds of Avengers Mansion in a zombified **state**, Scott Lang rushes to Jack, only for Jack to blow himself up, destroying much of the mansion and seemingly killing Scott. This Jack may have been some type of "apparition" created by an insane Scarle...
1492. ...erences or standards were wet-chemical cells such as the Clark cell and Weston cell, which are still used in some laboratory and calibration applications. Laboratory-grade Zener diode secondary solid-**state** voltage standards used in metrology can be constructed with a drift of about 1 part per million per year. The value of the "conventional" volt is now maintained by superconductive integrated circuits...
1493. ...titanyl phosphate (KTP) is an inorganic compound with the formula . It is a white solid. KTP is an important nonlinear optical material that is commonly used for frequency-doubling diode-pumped solid-**state** lasers such as and other neodymium-doped lasers. The compound is prepared by the reaction of titanium dioxide with a mixture of KHPO and KHPO near 1300 K. The potassium salts serve both as reagents a...
1494. ...ns of Solaris, have at least some support for ACPI. Some newer operating systems, like Windows Vista, require the computer to have an ACPI-compliant BIOS, and since Windows 8, the S0ix/Modern Standby **state** was implemented. Windows operating systems use acpi.sys to access ACPI events. The 2.4 series of the Linux kernel had only minimal support for ACPI, with better support implemented (and enabled by de...
1495. ...e and processor states. The ACPI Specification defines the following four global "Gx" states and six sleep "Sx" states for an ACPI-compliant computer system: The specification also defines a "Legacy" **state**: the state of an operating system which does not support ACPI. In this state, the hardware and power are not managed via ACPI, effectively disabling ACPI. The device states "D0"–"D3" are device depen...
1496. ...ssor states. The ACPI Specification defines the following four global "Gx" states and six sleep "Sx" states for an ACPI-compliant computer system: The specification also defines a "Legacy" state: the **state** of an operating system which does not support ACPI. In this state, the hardware and power are not managed via ACPI, effectively disabling ACPI. The device states "D0"–"D3" are device dependent: The C...
1497. ...bal "Gx" states and six sleep "Sx" states for an ACPI-compliant computer system: The specification also defines a "Legacy" state: the state of an operating system which does not support ACPI. In this **state**, the hardware and power are not managed via ACPI, effectively disabling ACPI. The device states "D0"–"D3" are device dependent: The CPU power states "C0"–"C3" are defined as follows: While a device o...
1498. ...: While a device or processor operates (D0 and C0, respectively), it can be in one of several power-performance states. These states are implementation-dependent. P0 is always the highest-performance **state**, with P1 to P"n" being successively lower-performance states. The total number of states is device or processor dependent, but can be no greater than 16. P-states have become known as SpeedStep in In...
1499. ...city trying to force Aquaman to marry her. Using her powerful mental abilities, Maxima compels Polaris into believing that his alternate personality has reemerged, forcing him into a nearly catatonic **state**. Under unknown circumstances, the catatonic Polaris ends up being held in Iraq, but he is rescued by Hatchet, Heat Wave and Sonar. The trio planned to carry him to the "Aurora Borealis" in the magnet...
1500. ...g between the formally empty A-site "6p" orbitals and the filled O "2p" orbitals. In geometric ferroelectrics, the driving force for the structural phase transition leading to the polar ferroelectric **state** is a rotational distortion of the polyhedra rather than an electron-sharing covalent bond formation. Such rotational distortions occur in many transition-metal oxides; in the perovskites for example...
1501. ...c ferroelectrics are the layered barium transition metal fluorides, BaMF, M=Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Zn, which have a ferroelectric transition at around 1000K and a magnetic transition to an antiferromagnetic **state** at around 50K. Since the distortion is not driven by a hybridisation between the d-site cation and the anions, it is compatible with the existence of magnetism on the B site, thus allowing for multif...
1502. ...delocalised at high temperature, localize in an ordered pattern on different cation sites so that the material becomes insulating. When the pattern of localized electrons is polar, the charge ordered **state** is ferroelectric. Usually the ions in such a case are magnetic and so the ferroelectric state is also multiferroic. The first proposed example of a charge ordered multiferroic was LuFeO, which charge...
1503. ...hat the material becomes insulating. When the pattern of localized electrons is polar, the charge ordered state is ferroelectric. Usually the ions in such a case are magnetic and so the ferroelectric **state** is also multiferroic. The first proposed example of a charge ordered multiferroic was LuFeO, which charge orders at 330 K with an arrangement of Fe and Fe ions. Ferrimagnetic ordering occurs below 24...
1504. ...he primary order parameter (in this case the primary order is the magnetisation) for the ferroic phase transition. The prototypical example is the formation of the non-centrosymmetric magnetic spiral **state**, accompanied by a small ferroelectric polarization, below 28K in TbMnO. In this case the polarization is small, 10 μC/cm, because the mechanism coupling the non-centrosymmetric spin structure to the...
1505. ...ontrolling the "orientation" of magnetism using an electric field, for example in heterostructures of conventional ferromagnetic metals and multiferroic BiFeO, as well as in controlling the magnetic "**state**", for example from antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic in FeRh. In multiferroic thin films, the coupled magnetic and ferroelectric order parameters can be exploited for developing magnetoelectronic de...
1506. ...etic spin orientations in the multiferroic pinning layer can be electrically tuned, then magnetoresistance of the device can be controlled by the applied electric field. One can also explore multiple **state** memory elements, where data are stored both in the electric and the magnetic polarizations. Multiferroic composite structures in bulk form are explored for high-sensitivity ac magnetic field sensors...
1507. ...hese short time scales is governed by non-equilibrium dynamics, and usually makes use of resonant processes. One demonstration of ultrafast processes is the switching from collinear antiferromagnetic **state** to spiral antiferromagnetic state in CuO under excitation by 40 fs 800 nm laser pulse. A second example shows the possibility for the direct control of spin waves with THz radiation on antiferromagne...
1508. ...by non-equilibrium dynamics, and usually makes use of resonant processes. One demonstration of ultrafast processes is the switching from collinear antiferromagnetic state to spiral antiferromagnetic **state** in CuO under excitation by 40 fs 800 nm laser pulse. A second example shows the possibility for the direct control of spin waves with THz radiation on antiferromagnetic NiO. These are promising demon...
1509. ...fer to stationary walls. They can result from Multiferroic properties can appear in a large variety of materials. Therefore, several conventional material fabrication routes are used, including solid **state** synthesis, hydrothermal synthesis, sol-gel processing, vacuum based deposition, and floating zone. Some types of multiferroics require more specialized processing techniques, such as Most multiferroi...
1510. ...raised the magnetic field to 8 T, the superconducting behavior continued. The critical temperature at that field strength increased to about 400 millikelvins. The sample retained the superconducting **state** until 13 T. They also found that at 12 T, the URhGe sample experienced a magnetic phase transition. Capacitance multiplier A capacitance multiplier is designed to make a capacitor function like a muc...
1511. ...hing, power amplifier load matching and adjustable filters. RF tuning MEMS are still a relatively new technology and has not yet been accepted broadly. SOI/SOS tuning devices are constructed as solid **state** FET switches built on insulated CMOS wafers and use MIM caps arranged in binary-weighted values to achieve different capacitance values. SOI/SOS switches have high linearity and are well suited to lo...
1512. ...bile TV systems. Variable capacitance is sometimes used to convert physical phenomena into electrical signals. Spontaneous magnetization Spontaneous magnetization is the appearance of an ordered spin **state** (magnetization) at zero applied magnetic field in a ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic material below a critical point called the Curie temperature or . Heated to temperatures above , ferromagnetic mater...
1513. ...erromagnetic thin film causes a shift in the soft magnetization curve of a ferromagnetic film. The exchange bias phenomenon is of tremendous utility in magnetic recording, where it is used to pin the **state** of the readback heads of hard disk drives at exactly their point of maximum sensitivity; hence the term "bias." The essential physics underlying the phenomenon is the exchange interaction between the...
1514. ...emperature is used to obtain ferromagnetic unidirectional anisotropy in different exchange bias systems. In 2011, a large exchange bias has been realized after zero-field cooling from an unmagnetized **state**, which was attributed to the newly formed interface between different magnetic phases during the initial magnetization process. Exchange anisotropy has long been poorly understood due to the difficul...
1515. ...as initially used to stabilize the magnetization of soft ferromagnetic layers in readback heads based on the anisotropic magnetoresistance (AMR) effect. Without the stabilization, the magnetic domain **state** of the head could be unpredictable, leading to reliability problems. Currently, exchange bias is used to pin the harder reference layer in spin valve readback heads and MRAM memory circuits that util...
1516. ...rs in "Age of Apocalypse". This version is a former member of Mister Sinister's Elite Mutant Force. Bedlam appears in "Deadpool 2", portrayed by Terry Crews. This version is a member of X-Force. Zero **state** response In electrical circuit theory, the zero state response (ZSR) is the behaviour or response of a circuit with initial state of zero. The ZSR results only from the external inputs or driving fun...
1517. ...mber of Mister Sinister's Elite Mutant Force. Bedlam appears in "Deadpool 2", portrayed by Terry Crews. This version is a member of X-Force. Zero state response In electrical circuit theory, the zero **state** response (ZSR) is the behaviour or response of a circuit with initial state of zero. The ZSR results only from the external inputs or driving functions of the circuit and not from the initial state....
1518. ..., portrayed by Terry Crews. This version is a member of X-Force. Zero state response In electrical circuit theory, the zero state response (ZSR) is the behaviour or response of a circuit with initial **state** of zero. The ZSR results only from the external inputs or driving functions of the circuit and not from the initial state. The total response of the circuit is the superposition of the ZSR and the ZI...
1519. ...o state response (ZSR) is the behaviour or response of a circuit with initial state of zero. The ZSR results only from the external inputs or driving functions of the circuit and not from the initial **state**. The total response of the circuit is the superposition of the ZSR and the ZIR, or Zero Input Response. The ZIR results only from the initial state of the circuit and not from any external drive. The...
1520. ...g functions of the circuit and not from the initial state. The total response of the circuit is the superposition of the ZSR and the ZIR, or Zero Input Response. The ZIR results only from the initial **state** of the circuit and not from any external drive. The ZIR is also called the natural response, and the resonant frequencies of the ZIR are called the "natural frequencies". Given a description of a sys...
1521. ...ny external drive. The ZIR is also called the natural response, and the resonant frequencies of the ZIR are called the "natural frequencies". Given a description of a system in the s-domain, the zero-**state** response can be described as Y(s)=Init(s)/a(s) where a(s) and Init(s) are system-specific. One example of zero state response being used is in integrator and differentiator circuits. By examining a s...
1522. ...e "natural frequencies". Given a description of a system in the s-domain, the zero-state response can be described as Y(s)=Init(s)/a(s) where a(s) and Init(s) are system-specific. One example of zero **state** response being used is in integrator and differentiator circuits. By examining a simple integrator circuit it can be demonstrated that when a function is put into a linear time-invariant (LTI) system...
1523. ...circuit it can be demonstrated that when a function is put into a linear time-invariant (LTI) system, an output can be characterized by a superposition or sum of the Zero Input Response and the zero **state** response. A system can be represented as formula_1 formula_2 with the input formula_3 on the left and the output formula_4 on the right. The output formula_4 can be separated into a zero input and a...
1524. ...onse. A system can be represented as formula_1 formula_2 with the input formula_3 on the left and the output formula_4 on the right. The output formula_4 can be separated into a zero input and a zero **state** solution with formula_6 The contributions of formula_7 and formula_1 to output formula_9 are additive and each contribution formula_7 and formula_11 vanishes with vanishing formula_7 and formula_13 T...
1525. ...bution formula_7 and formula_11 vanishes with vanishing formula_7 and formula_13 This behavior constitutes a linear system. A linear system has an output that is a sum of distinct zero-input and zero-**state** components, each varying linearly, with the initial state of the system and the input of the system respectively. The zero input response and zero state response are independent of each other and the...
1526. ...rmula_7 and formula_13 This behavior constitutes a linear system. A linear system has an output that is a sum of distinct zero-input and zero-state components, each varying linearly, with the initial **state** of the system and the input of the system respectively. The zero input response and zero state response are independent of each other and therefore each component can be computed independently of the...
1527. ...that is a sum of distinct zero-input and zero-state components, each varying linearly, with the initial state of the system and the input of the system respectively. The zero input response and zero **state** response are independent of each other and therefore each component can be computed independently of the other. The Zero State Response formula_11 represents the system output formula_9 when formula_...
1528. ...d the input of the system respectively. The zero input response and zero state response are independent of each other and therefore each component can be computed independently of the other. The Zero **State** Response formula_11 represents the system output formula_9 when formula_16 When there is no influence from internal voltages or currents due to previously charged components formula_17 Zero state res...
1529. ...ero State Response formula_11 represents the system output formula_9 when formula_16 When there is no influence from internal voltages or currents due to previously charged components formula_17 Zero **state** response varies with the system input and under zero-state conditions we could say that two independent inputs results in two independent outputs: formula_18formula_19 and formula_20formula_21 Becaus...
1530. ...formula_9 when formula_16 When there is no influence from internal voltages or currents due to previously charged components formula_17 Zero state response varies with the system input and under zero-**state** conditions we could say that two independent inputs results in two independent outputs: formula_18formula_19 and formula_20formula_21 Because of linearity we can then apply the principles of superpos...
1531. ...then apply the principles of superposition to achieve formula_22formula_23 The circuit to the right acts as a simple integrator circuit and will be used to verify the equation formula_24 as the zero **state** response of an integrator circuit. Capacitors have the current-voltage relation formula_25 where "C" is the capacitance, measured in farads, of the capacitor. By manipulating the above equation the c...
1532. ...measured in farads, of the capacitor. By manipulating the above equation the capacitor can be shown to effectively integrate the current through it. The resulting equation also demonstrates the zero **state** and zero input responses to the integrator circuit. First, by integrating both sides of the above equation formula_26 Second, by integrating the right side formula_27 Third, distribute and subtract f...
1533. ...the conditions of the simple integrator circuit above. By using the capacitance of 1 farad as shown in the integrator circuit above formula_38 which is the equation containing the zero input and zero **state** response seen at the top of the page. To verify its zero state linearity set the voltage around the capacitor at time 0 equal to 0, or formula_39, meaning that there is no initial voltage. This elimi...
1534. ...the capacitance of 1 farad as shown in the integrator circuit above formula_38 which is the equation containing the zero input and zero state response seen at the top of the page. To verify its zero **state** linearity set the voltage around the capacitor at time 0 equal to 0, or formula_39, meaning that there is no initial voltage. This eliminates the first term forming the equation formula_40. In accord...
1535. ...41 and formula_42 can be combined to get a new input formula_47 and a new output formula_48 By integrating the right side of formula_49 formula_50 is found, which implies the system is linear at zero **state**, formula_39. This entire verification example could also have been done with a voltage source in place of the current source and an inductor in place of the capacitor. We would have then been solving...
1536. ...current source and an inductor in place of the capacitor. We would have then been solving for a current instead of a voltage. The circuit analysis method of breaking a system output down into a zero **state** and zero input response is used industry wide including circuits, control systems, signal processing, and electromagnetics. Also most circuit simulation software, such as SPICE, support the method in...
1537. ...ital spread sheet documents and alike became also common, even if the traditional form is still in use. For testing efficiency sometimes only the border of interest (where a certain value changes its **state**) is backed up with data in the diagrams thus (often reasonably) assuming the areas outside those transition will stay at those state. If sufficiently-wide ranges of the two independent variables were...
1538. ...mes only the border of interest (where a certain value changes its state) is backed up with data in the diagrams thus (often reasonably) assuming the areas outside those transition will stay at those **state**. If sufficiently-wide ranges of the two independent variables were to be tested, a normal shmoo plot would show an operating envelope of some shape not unlike Al Capp's Shmoo, but in practice, this m...
1539. ...chniques use active elements to compensate for excessive voltage drop. Ohm's law can be used to determine the DC voltage drop by multiplying current times resistance: . Also, Kirchhoff's circuit laws **state** that in any DC circuit, the sum of the voltage drops across each component of the circuit is equal to the supply voltage. Consider a direct-current circuit with a nine-volt DC source; three resistors...
1540. ...e charge which binds it to the surface. The electron is forbidden from entering the liquid for the same reason hydrogen atoms are stable: quantum mechanics. The electron and image charge form a bound **state**, just as an electron and proton do in a hydrogen atom, with a minimum average separation. In this case, the minimum energy is about 1 eV (a moderate amount of energy on an atomic scale)[3]. When an e...
1541. ...s the form In and dimensions this equation admits several integrable and non-integrable extensions like the Landau-Lifshitz equation, the Ishimori equation and so on. For a ferromagnet and the ground **state** of the Hamiltonian formula_4 is that in which all spins are aligned parallel with the field . That formula_4 is an eigenstate of formula_1 can be verified by rewriting it in terms of the spin-raising...
1542. ...by rewriting it in terms of the spin-raising and spin-lowering operators given by: resulting in where has been taken as the direction of the magnetic field. The spin-lowering operator annihilates the **state** with minimum projection of spin along the -axis, while the spin-raising operator annihilates the ground state with maximum spin projection along the -axis. Since for the maximally aligned state, we f...
1543. ...taken as the direction of the magnetic field. The spin-lowering operator annihilates the state with minimum projection of spin along the -axis, while the spin-raising operator annihilates the ground **state** with maximum spin projection along the -axis. Since for the maximally aligned state, we find where N is the total number of Bravais lattice sites. The proposition that the ground state is an eigensta...
1544. ...s the state with minimum projection of spin along the -axis, while the spin-raising operator annihilates the ground state with maximum spin projection along the -axis. Since for the maximally aligned **state**, we find where N is the total number of Bravais lattice sites. The proposition that the ground state is an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian is confirmed. One might guess that the first excited state of...
1545. ...tes the ground state with maximum spin projection along the -axis. Since for the maximally aligned state, we find where N is the total number of Bravais lattice sites. The proposition that the ground **state** is an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian is confirmed. One might guess that the first excited state of the Hamiltonian has one randomly selected spin at position rotated so that but in fact this arrangeme...
1546. ...ned state, we find where N is the total number of Bravais lattice sites. The proposition that the ground state is an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian is confirmed. One might guess that the first excited **state** of the Hamiltonian has one randomly selected spin at position rotated so that but in fact this arrangement of spins is not an eigenstate. The reason is that such a state is transformed by the spin ra...
1547. ...guess that the first excited state of the Hamiltonian has one randomly selected spin at position rotated so that but in fact this arrangement of spins is not an eigenstate. The reason is that such a **state** is transformed by the spin raising and lowering operators. The operator formula_12 will increase the -projection of the spin at position back to its low-energy orientation, but the operator formula_1...
1548. ...nal field, the spin system has an infinite number of degenerate ground states with infinitesimally different spin orientations. The existence of these ground states can be seen from the fact that the **state** formula_4 does not have the full rotational symmetry of the Hamiltonian formula_1, a phenomenon which is called spontaneous symmetry breaking. In this model the magnetization where is the volume. The...
1549. ...of a cosine term in the energy expression originating from the dot product. The underlying reason for the difference in dispersion relation is that the order parameter (magnetization) for the ground-**state** in ferromagnets violates time-reversal symmetry. Two adjacent spins in a solid with lattice constant that participate in a mode with wavevector have an angle between them equal to . Spin waves are ob...
1550. ...proper operation of the negative-resistance device by limiting current. Ballasts can also be used simply to limit the current in an ordinary, positive-resistance circuit. Prior to the advent of solid-**state** ignition, automobile ignition systems commonly included a ballast resistor to regulate the voltage applied to the ignition system. For simple, low-powered loads such as a neon lamp, a fixed resistor...
1551. ...d States, polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-based oils were used as an insulating oil in many ballasts to provide cooling and electrical isolation (see Transformer oil). An electronic ballast uses solid **state** electronic circuitry to provide the proper starting and operating electrical conditions to power discharge lamps. An electronic ballast can be smaller and lighter than a comparably rated magnetic one...
1552. ...ples may affect the measured fracture toughness however, as elaborated by O’Connor et al. In their study, samples of TiHfCoIrSbSn were prepared using three different methods: a high-temperature solid **state** reaction, high-energy ball milling, and a combination of both. The study found higher fracture toughness in samples prepared without a high-energy ball milling step of 2.7 MPa m to 4.1 MPa m, as oppo...
1553. ...bient temperature are the primary contributors to quiescent current. Many applications do not require an LDO to be in full operation all of the time (i.e. supplying current to the load). In this idle **state** the LDO still draws a small amount of quiescent current in order to keep the internal circuitry ready in case a load is presented. When no current is being supplied to the load, formula_2 can be foun...
1554. ...is a measure of the circuit's ability to maintain the specified output voltage with varying input voltage. Line regulation is defined as: formula_16 Like load regulation, line regulation is a steady **state** parameter—all frequency components are neglected. Increasing DC open-loop current gain improves the line regulation. The transient response is the maximum allowable output voltage variation for a loa...
1555. ...peared in the 2001 "Alias" series. She returned after an almost two-year absence for a six-issue story. However, the character spends the entire story (save a three-page epilogue) in a semi-conscious **state**. She appeared in the 2005 limited series "Loners". This is her first active adventure in more than six years. She appeared in the 2016-2017 "Silk" series. Martha "Mattie" Franklin is a troubled youth...
1556. ...for him. Franklin has long been an obsessive fan of Spider-Man who inspired her career as a superhero. This obsession is coupled with repressed romantic feelings for him, which she revealed during a **state** of delirium after suffering a head injury in battle. She is defeated by Shadrac, forcing Spider-Man to return to the costume and save her. After Spider-Man's return, she assumes the identity of Spide...
1557. .../are being commissioned including the INTI Plasma Focus in Malaysia, the NX3 in Singapore, the first plasma focus to be commissioned in a US university in recent times, the KSU Plasma Focus at Kansas **State** University which recorded its first fusion neutron emitting pinch on New Year's Eve 2009 and the IR-MPF-100 plasma focus (115kJ) in Iran. Several groups proposed that fusion power based on the DPF co...
1558. ...the formula a day to survive, but it is discovered by Gwen that he is already cured and the doses are just maintaining his superhuman powers. After learning of this, he quits S.I.L.K. and escapes the **state** with his family, but not before he aids the three Spider-Women by giving them access codes to Earth-65 Cindy's home base. In this version, Jessica Drew appeared in issue 52 and is a freelance agent w...
1559. ...infinitesimal gauge transformation formula_5 where α is some function of position?  The Noether charge is now where formula_7 is the electric field. Using integration by parts, This assumes that the **state** in question approaches the vacuum asymptotically at spatial infinity. The first integral is the surface integral at spatial infinity and the second integral is zero by the Gauss law. Also assume that...
1560. ...ng the tether with respect to the plasma. Finally, point "B" is the point at which the potential of the tether is equal to the plasma. The location of point "B" will vary depending on the equilibrium **state** of the tether, which is determined by the solution of Kirchhoff's voltage law (KVL) and Kirchhoff's current law (KCL) along the tether. Here formula_8, formula_9, and formula_10 describe the current...
1561. ...rd water. In addition to being used as a surfactant, hydroxysultaines are often used as antistatic agents. Examples include: Harmonic balance Harmonic balance is a method used to calculate the steady-**state** response of nonlinear differential equations, and is mostly applied to nonlinear electrical circuits. It is a "frequency domain" method for calculating the steady state, as opposed to the various "ti...
1562. ...d used to calculate the steady-state response of nonlinear differential equations, and is mostly applied to nonlinear electrical circuits. It is a "frequency domain" method for calculating the steady **state**, as opposed to the various "time-domain" steady-state methods. The name "harmonic balance" is descriptive of the method, which starts with Kirchhoff's Current Law written in the frequency domain and...
1563. ...near differential equations, and is mostly applied to nonlinear electrical circuits. It is a "frequency domain" method for calculating the steady state, as opposed to the various "time-domain" steady-**state** methods. The name "harmonic balance" is descriptive of the method, which starts with Kirchhoff's Current Law written in the frequency domain and a chosen number of harmonics. A sinusoidal signal appl...
1564. ...rst, an initial guess is made for the solution, then an iterative process continues: Convergence is reached when formula_53 is acceptably small, at which point all voltages and currents of the steady-**state** solution are known, most often represented as Fourier coefficients. Hot cathode In vacuum tubes and gas-filled tubes, a hot cathode or thermionic cathode is a cathode electrode which is heated to mak...
1565. ...transfer form an enormous body of work. The differences however, are essentially due to the various forms for the emission and absorption coefficients. If scattering is ignored, then a general steady **state** solution in terms of the emission and absorption coefficients may be written: where formula_20 is the optical depth of the medium between positions formula_21 and formula_22: A particularly useful si...
1566. ...mes Clerk Maxwell took an agnostic approach in his mathematization of Faraday's theories. This is seen in Maxwell's 1855 and 1856 papers: "On Faraday's Lines of Force" and "On Faraday's Electrotontic **State**". In the 1864 paper "A Dynamical Theory of the Electromagnetic Field" Maxwell gives scientific priority of the electromagnetic theory of light to Faraday and his 1846 paper "Thoughts on Ray Vibration...
1567. ...since the potential is constant, formula_15 and equation becomes: formula_16 There are two possible families of solutions, depending on whether "E" is less than formula_6 (the particle is in a bound **state**) or "E" is greater than formula_6 (the particle is in an unbounded state). If we solve the time-independent Schrödinger equation for an energy formula_19, letting formula_20 such that formula_21 then...
1568. ...a_16 There are two possible families of solutions, depending on whether "E" is less than formula_6 (the particle is in a bound state) or "E" is greater than formula_6 (the particle is in an unbounded **state**). If we solve the time-independent Schrödinger equation for an energy formula_19, letting formula_20 such that formula_21 then the solution has the same form as the inside-well case: formula_22 and,...
1569. ...same form as the inside-well case: formula_22 and, hence, will be oscillatory both inside and outside the well. Thus, the solution is never square integrable; that is, it is always a non-normalizable **state**. This does not mean, however, that it is impossible for a quantum particle to have energy greater than formula_6, it merely means that the system has continuous spectrum above formula_6, i.e., the no...
1570. ...bove formula_6, i.e., the non-normalizable states still contribute to the continuous part of the spectrum as generalized eigenfunctions of an unbounded operator. This analysis will focus on the bound **state**, where formula_25. Letting formula_26 produces formula_27 where the general solution is exponential: formula_28 Similarly, for the other region outside the box: formula_29 Now in order to find the sp...
1571. ...for the energy levels above formula_6 are continuous.) The energy equations cannot be solved analytically. Nevertheless, we will see that in the symmetric case, there always exists at least one bound **state**, even if the well is very shallow. Graphical or numerical solutions to the energy equations are aided by rewriting them a little and it should be mentioned that a nice approximation method has been f...
1572. ...e right we show the energy levels and wave functions in this case (where formula_80). We note that however small formula_72 is (however shallow or narrow the well), there is always at least one bound **state**. Two special cases are worth noting. As the height of the potential becomes large, formula_82, the radius of the semicircle gets larger and the roots get closer and closer to the values formula_83, a...
1573. ...ll. The other case is that of a very narrow, deep well - specifically the case formula_82 and formula_85 with formula_86 fixed. As formula_87 it will tend to zero, and so there will only be one bound **state**. The approximate solution is then formula_88, and the energy tends to formula_89. But this is just the energy of the bound state of a Delta function potential of strength formula_86, as it should be....
1574. ...s formula_87 it will tend to zero, and so there will only be one bound state. The approximate solution is then formula_88, and the energy tends to formula_89. But this is just the energy of the bound **state** of a Delta function potential of strength formula_86, as it should be. A simpler graphical solution for the energy levels can be obtained by normalizing the potential and the energy through multiplic...
1575. ...ormula_112 satisfying the condition This equation does not always have a solution indicating that in some cases, there are no bound states. The minimum depth of the potential well for which the bound **state** first appears at formula_114 is given by which increases with decreasing well radius formula_104. Thus, bound states are not possible if the well is sufficiently shallow and narrow. For well depth sl...
1576. ...ing well radius formula_104. Thus, bound states are not possible if the well is sufficiently shallow and narrow. For well depth slightly exceeding the minimum value, i.e., for formula_117, the ground **state** energy formula_118 (since we are considering formula_110 case) is given by The results above can be used to show that, as to the one-dimensional case, there is two bound states in a spherical cavity,...
1577. ...sults above can be used to show that, as to the one-dimensional case, there is two bound states in a spherical cavity, as spherical coordinates make equivalent the radius at any direction. The ground **state** ("n" = 1) of a spherically symmetric potential will always have zero orbital angular momentum (ℓ = n−1), and the reduced wave function formula_121 satisfies the equation formula_122 where formula_123...
1578. ...ical setup, however, is not universal as in the case of diffusive shock acceleration. Transistor tester Transistor testers are instruments for testing the electrical behavior of transistors and solid-**state** diodes. There are three types of transistor testers each performing a unique operation. In addition, curve tracers are reliable indicators of transistor performance. A circuit tester is used to check...
1579. ...e are useful, but fail some functional but low h transistors. Some also provide a means of identifying transistor elements, if these are unknown. The tester has all these features and can check solid-**state** devices in and out of circuit.  Transistor h varies fairly widely with Ic, so measurements with the service type tester give readings that can differ quite a bit from the h in the transistor's real l...
1580. ...hes for making the proper voltage, current and signal settings. A meter with a calibrated "good" and "bad" scale is on the front. In addition, these transistor testers are designed to check the solid-**state** diodes. There are also testers for checking high transistor and rectifiers. Operation Fishbowl Operation Fishbowl was a series of high-altitude nuclear tests in 1962 that were carried out by the Unit...
1581. ...Flow batteries are governed by the design principles of electrochemical engineering. Redox flow batteries, and to a lesser extent hybrid flow batteries, have the advantages of: Some types offer easy **state**-of-charge determination (through voltage dependence on charge), low maintenance and tolerance to overcharge/overdischarge. They are safe because they typically do not contain flammable electrolytes,...
1582. ...The redox cell uses redox-active species in fluid (liquid or gas) media. Redox flow batteries are rechargeable (secondary) cells. Because they employ heterogeneous electron transfer rather than solid-**state** diffusion or intercalation they are more similar to fuel cells than to conventional batteries. The main reason fuel cells are not considered to be batteries, is because originally (in the 1800s) fuel...
1583. ...he amortization of their relatively high capital cost (driven by vanadium, carbon felts, bipolar plates, and membranes). The LCOE is on the order of a few tens cents per kWh, much lower than of solid-**state** batteries and near the targets of 5 cents stated by US and EC government agencies. Major challenges include: low abundance and high costs of VO (> $30 / Kg); parasitic reactions including hydrogen an...
1584. ...before leaving her. Now backed by Atlantean outcasts from the homeless population of the Ninth Tride and the Lernaea from loyalty, Orm officially christens himself king of Dagon. As Atlantis is in a **state** of disarray due to Mera being in a coma from a battle with Black Manta and his new weapon and Vulko proving an unpopular impromptu ruler among Atlantean citizens, Orm visits the Atlantean house of he...
1585. ...Andy), is born. Months following the royal birth of Princess Andy, Orm began undermining Mera and her council's rule using his status as king of Dagon with the intent of establishing Dagon a new city-**state** capital by ushering in several tactical gambits; he manipulates the poorer populace of the Ninth Tride in his growing army, begins winning support from other kingdoms, and manipulates his brother by...
1586. ...es (a fundamental limitation due to the Faraday cage effect). Another limitation is that DC voltage cannot be detected by this method, since DC current does not pass through capacitors (in the steady **state**), so the tester is not activated. These types of testers can be used on series-connected strings of mini Christmas lights to detect which bulb has failed and broken the circuit, causing the set (or a...
1587. ...maintained long enough for a standard tester to respond. In these applications a latching continuity tester is used. A more complex device, it detects intermittent opens and shorts as well as steady-**state** conditions. These devices contain a fast acting electronic switch (generally a Schmitt trigger) forming a gated astable oscillator which detects and locks (latches) the indicator on an intermittent c...
1588. ...itten as and the diffusion term as The ratio of the two terms is therefore For formula_17, advection is relatively unimportant, and so the magnetic field will tend to relax towards a purely diffusive **state**, determined by the boundary conditions rather than the flow. For formula_18, diffusion is relatively unimportant on the length scale "L". Flux lines of the magnetic field are then advected with the f...
1589. ...ity wave is said to be commensurate; otherwise the density wave is termed incommensurate. Some solids with a high formula_1 form density waves while others choose a superconducting or magnetic ground **state** at low temperatures, because of the existence of nesting vectors in the materials' Fermi surfaces. The concept of a nesting vector is illustrated in the Figure for the famous case of chromium, which...
1590. ...istence of nesting vectors in the materials' Fermi surfaces. The concept of a nesting vector is illustrated in the Figure for the famous case of chromium, which transitions from a paramagnetic to SDW **state** at a Néel temperature of 311 K. Cr is a body-centered cubic metal whose Fermi surface features many parallel boundaries between electron pockets centered at formula_6 and hole pockets at H. These lar...
1591. ...0–700 nm (at the surface of the Earth). The energy of an absorbed photon is transferred to electrons in the molecule and briefly changes their configuration (i.e., promotes the molecule from a ground **state** to an excited state). The excited state represents what is essentially a new molecule. Often excited state molecules are not kinetically stable in the presence of O or HO and can spontaneously decomp...
1592. ...face of the Earth). The energy of an absorbed photon is transferred to electrons in the molecule and briefly changes their configuration (i.e., promotes the molecule from a ground state to an excited **state**). The excited state represents what is essentially a new molecule. Often excited state molecules are not kinetically stable in the presence of O or HO and can spontaneously decompose (oxidize or hydr...
1593. ...The energy of an absorbed photon is transferred to electrons in the molecule and briefly changes their configuration (i.e., promotes the molecule from a ground state to an excited state). The excited **state** represents what is essentially a new molecule. Often excited state molecules are not kinetically stable in the presence of O or HO and can spontaneously decompose (oxidize or hydrolyze). Sometimes mo...
1594. ...molecule and briefly changes their configuration (i.e., promotes the molecule from a ground state to an excited state). The excited state represents what is essentially a new molecule. Often excited **state** molecules are not kinetically stable in the presence of O or HO and can spontaneously decompose (oxidize or hydrolyze). Sometimes molecules decompose to produce high energy, unstable fragments that c...
1595. ...filter capacitors when the equipment is turned off, for safety reasons. It eliminates the possibility of a leftover charge causing electric shock if people handle or service the equipment in the off **state**, believing it is safe. A bleeder resistor is usually a standard resistor rather than a specialized component. The power supply circuits in electronic equipment that produce direct current (DC) needed...
1596. ...han the Navy's threshold requirements. In 2013, at the Lakehurst, New Jersey test site, 201 of 1,967 test launches failed, giving a 10% failure rate for the test series. Factoring in the then-current **state** of the system, the most generous numbers available in 2013 showed that EMALS has an average "time between failure" rate of 1 in 240. According to a March 2015 report, "Based on expected reliability g...
1597. ...c charge carrier can lose energy by the creation of other charge carriers. For example, in semiconductors, an electron (or hole) with enough kinetic energy can knock a bound electron out of its bound **state** (in the valence band) and promote it to a state in the conduction band, creating an electron-hole pair. For carriers to have sufficient kinetic energy a sufficiently large electric field must be appl...
1598. ...of other charge carriers. For example, in semiconductors, an electron (or hole) with enough kinetic energy can knock a bound electron out of its bound state (in the valence band) and promote it to a **state** in the conduction band, creating an electron-hole pair. For carriers to have sufficient kinetic energy a sufficiently large electric field must be applied, in essence requiring a sufficiently large v...
1599. ...ave a slightly different phase and/or direction. But there is still almost no energy loss. Like monochromatic light passing through milk, electrons undergo elastic interactions. Information about the **state** of the electrons at the input is then lost. Transport becomes statistical and stochastic. From the resistance point of view, stochastic (not oriented) movement of electrons is useless even if they ca...
1600. ...ostate cancer, uveal melanomas, and brain tumors. It is the second longest-lived radioisotope of iodine, after iodine-129. Its half-life is 59.392 days and it decays by electron capture to an excited **state** of tellurium-125. This state is not the metastable Te, but rather a lower energy state that decays immediately by gamma decay with a maximum energy of 35 keV. Some of the excess energy of the excited...
1601. ...s, and brain tumors. It is the second longest-lived radioisotope of iodine, after iodine-129. Its half-life is 59.392 days and it decays by electron capture to an excited state of tellurium-125. This **state** is not the metastable Te, but rather a lower energy state that decays immediately by gamma decay with a maximum energy of 35 keV. Some of the excess energy of the excited Te may be internally convert...
1602. ...sotope of iodine, after iodine-129. Its half-life is 59.392 days and it decays by electron capture to an excited state of tellurium-125. This state is not the metastable Te, but rather a lower energy **state** that decays immediately by gamma decay with a maximum energy of 35 keV. Some of the excess energy of the excited Te may be internally converted ejected electrons (also at 35 keV), or to x-rays (from...
1603. ...ns (also at 35 keV), or to x-rays (from electron bremsstrahlung), and also a total of 21 Auger electrons, which are produced at the low energies of 50 to 500 electron volts. Eventually, stable ground **state** Te is produced as the final decay product. In medical applications, the internal conversion and Auger electrons cause little damage outside the cell which contains the isotope atom. The X-rays and ga...
1604. ...ard the valence orbitals. The cascade involves many Auger transitions, each of which cause the atom to become increasingly ionized. The electron capture produces a tellurium-125 nucleus in an excited **state** with a half-life of 1.6 ns, which undergoes gamma decay emitting a gamma photon or an internal conversion electron at 35.5 keV. A second electron relaxation cascade follows the gamma decay before the...
1605. ...n whether a switch is opened or closed. R. D. Middlebrook from Caltech in 1977 published the models for DC to DC converters used today. Middlebrook averaged the circuit configurations for each switch **state** in a technique called state-space averaging. This simplification reduced two systems into one. The new model led to insightful design equations which helped the growth of SMPS. Battery power systems...
1606. ...or closed. R. D. Middlebrook from Caltech in 1977 published the models for DC to DC converters used today. Middlebrook averaged the circuit configurations for each switch state in a technique called **state**-space averaging. This simplification reduced two systems into one. The new model led to insightful design equations which helped the growth of SMPS. Battery power systems often stack cells in series...
1607. ...nuous mode, the current through the inductor (formula_3) never falls to zero. Figure 3 shows the typical waveforms of inductor current and voltage in a converter operating in this mode. In the steady **state**, the DC (average) voltage across the inductor must be zero so that after each cycle, the inductor returns the same state because the voltage across the inductor is proportional to the rate of change...
1608. ...uctor current and voltage in a converter operating in this mode. In the steady state, the DC (average) voltage across the inductor must be zero so that after each cycle, the inductor returns the same **state** because the voltage across the inductor is proportional to the rate of change of current through it (explained in more detail below). Note in Figure 1 that the left-hand side of "L" is at formula_4,...
1609. ...ed analysis as follows: The output voltage can be calculated as follows in the case of an ideal converter (i.e. using components with an ideal behaviour) operating in steady conditions: During the on-**state**, the switch "S" is closed, which makes the input voltage (formula_4) appear across the inductor, which causes a change in current (formula_3) flowing through the inductor during a time period ("t") b...
1610. ...appear across the inductor, which causes a change in current (formula_3) flowing through the inductor during a time period ("t") by the formula: Where "L" is the inductor value. At the end of the on-**state**, the increase of "I" is therefore: "D" is the duty cycle. It represents the fraction of the commutation period "T" during which the switch is on. Therefore, "D" ranges between 0 ("S" is never on) and...
1611. ..." is the duty cycle. It represents the fraction of the commutation period "T" during which the switch is on. Therefore, "D" ranges between 0 ("S" is never on) and 1 ("S" is always on). During the Off-**state**, the switch S is open, so the inductor current flows through the load. If we consider zero voltage drop in the diode and a capacitor large enough for its voltage to remain constant, the evolution of...
1612. ...and a capacitor large enough for its voltage to remain constant, the evolution of "I" is: Therefore, the variation of I during the Off-period is: As we consider that the converter operates in steady **state** conditions, the amount of energy stored in each of its components has to be the same at the beginning and at the end of a commutation cycle. In particular, the energy stored in the inductor is given...
1613. ...ing the two previous equations, "δ" is: The load current "I" is equal to the average diode current ("I"). As can be seen in Figure 4, the diode current is equal to the inductor current during the off-**state**. The average value of "I" can be sorted out geometrically from figure 4. Therefore, the output current can be written as: Replacing "I" and "δ" by their respective expressions yields: Therefore, the...
1614. ...ave a commutator can suffer from sparking at the brushes. Ignition systems on cars and motorbikes. Power line hardware can generate sparks at either a 100 or 120 Hz rate Light dimmers and other solid **state** power control devices can generate interference. Thyristor and TRIAC regulators without proper chokes are a common source of EMI as well. It is likely that a thyristor (SCR) power controller using th...
1615. ...plex must form, and such processes are often highly reversible. Electron transfer occurs through the bridge once it is established. In some cases, the stable bridged structure may exist in the ground **state**; in other cases, the bridged structure may be a transiently-formed intermediate, or else as a transition state during the reaction. The alternative to inner sphere electron transfer is outer sphere e...
1616. ...e it is established. In some cases, the stable bridged structure may exist in the ground state; in other cases, the bridged structure may be a transiently-formed intermediate, or else as a transition **state** during the reaction. The alternative to inner sphere electron transfer is outer sphere electron transfer. In any transition metal redox process, the mechanism can be assumed to be outer sphere unless...
1617. ...e can be described with the following equation: The point of interest is that the chloride that was originally bonded to the cobalt, the oxidant, becomes bonded to chromium, which in its +3 oxidation **state**, forms kinetically inert bonds to its ligands. This observation implies the intermediacy of the bimetallic complex [Co(NH)("μ"-Cl)Cr(HO)], wherein ""μ"-Cl" indicates that the chloride bridges between...
1618. ...er, in which the electron transfers within a "single" biomolecule (e.g., intraprotein). Outer sphere electron transfer can occur between chemical species that are identical except for their oxidation **state**. This process is termed self-exchange. An example is the degenerate reaction between the tetrahedral ions permanganate and manganate: For octahedral metal complexes, the rate constant for self-exchan...
1619. ...switching frequency allows for use of smaller inductors and capacitors, but also increases lost efficiency to more frequent transistor switching. The basic concept of a buck converter is:  During on-**state**, the source may need to momentarily provide more current than its rating for constant load allows, but the on-time is too short for the source to take damage. During off-state, no current is drawn fr...
1620. ...onverter is:  During on-state, the source may need to momentarily provide more current than its rating for constant load allows, but the on-time is too short for the source to take damage. During off-**state**, no current is drawn from the source, and the components can cool down. The average current draw over both states needs to be below the source specification.  To even out voltage spikes from the swit...
1621. ...rawn from the source, and the components can cool down. The average current draw over both states needs to be below the source specification.  To even out voltage spikes from the switching between on-**state** and off-state, a capacitor is used on the output side.  A mechanical analogy for a buck converter would be to pedal a bicycle in single, strong bursts (Force ~ Voltage), and let the bicycle roll in b...
1622. ...source, and the components can cool down. The average current draw over both states needs to be below the source specification.  To even out voltage spikes from the switching between on-state and off-**state**, a capacitor is used on the output side.  A mechanical analogy for a buck converter would be to pedal a bicycle in single, strong bursts (Force ~ Voltage), and let the bicycle roll in between (inerti...
1623. ...with the diode's voltage drop). The conceptual model of the buck converter is best understood in terms of the relation between current and voltage of the inductor. Beginning with the switch open (off-**state**), the current in the circuit is zero. When the switch is first closed (on-state), the current will begin to increase, and the inductor will produce an opposing voltage across its terminals in respons...
1624. ...st understood in terms of the relation between current and voltage of the inductor. Beginning with the switch open (off-state), the current in the circuit is zero. When the switch is first closed (on-**state**), the current will begin to increase, and the inductor will produce an opposing voltage across its terminals in response to the changing current. This voltage drop counteracts the voltage of the sour...
1625. ...is still changing, then there will always be a voltage drop across the inductor, so the net voltage at the load will always be less than the input voltage source. When the switch is opened again (off-**state**), the voltage source will be removed from the circuit, and the current will decrease. The decreasing current will produce a voltage drop across the inductor (opposite to the drop at on-state), and no...
1626. ...ain (off-state), the voltage source will be removed from the circuit, and the current will decrease. The decreasing current will produce a voltage drop across the inductor (opposite to the drop at on-**state**), and now the inductor becomes a current source. The stored energy in the inductor's magnetic field supports the current flow through the load. This current, flowing while the input voltage source is...
1627. ...nergy in the inductor's magnetic field supports the current flow through the load. This current, flowing while the input voltage source is disconnected, when appended to the current flowing during on-**state**, totals to current greater than the average input current (being zero during off-state). The "increase" in average current makes up for the reduction in voltage, and ideally preserves the power provi...
1628. ...current, flowing while the input voltage source is disconnected, when appended to the current flowing during on-state, totals to current greater than the average input current (being zero during off-**state**). The "increase" in average current makes up for the reduction in voltage, and ideally preserves the power provided to the load. During the off-state, the inductor is discharging its stored energy in...
1629. ...the average input current (being zero during off-state). The "increase" in average current makes up for the reduction in voltage, and ideally preserves the power provided to the load. During the off-**state**, the inductor is discharging its stored energy into the rest of the circuit. If the switch is closed again before the inductor fully discharges (on-state), the voltage at the load will always be grea...
1630. ...he power provided to the load. During the off-state, the inductor is discharging its stored energy into the rest of the circuit. If the switch is closed again before the inductor fully discharges (on-**state**), the voltage at the load will always be greater than zero. Buck converters operate in continuous mode if the current through the inductor (formula_1) never falls to zero during the commutation cycle...
1631. ...ed by the plots in figure 4: The energy stored in inductor L is Therefore, it can be seen that the energy stored in L increases during on-time as formula_1 increases and then decreases during the off-**state**. L is used to transfer energy from the input to the output of the converter. The rate of change of formula_1 can be calculated from: With formula_9 equal to formula_10 during the on-state and to form...
1632. ...ing the off-state. L is used to transfer energy from the input to the output of the converter. The rate of change of formula_1 can be calculated from: With formula_9 equal to formula_10 during the on-**state** and to formula_11 during the off-state. Therefore, the increase in current during the on-state is given by: where formula_13 is a scalar called the duty cycle with a value between 0 and 1. Conversely...
1633. ...r energy from the input to the output of the converter. The rate of change of formula_1 can be calculated from: With formula_9 equal to formula_10 during the on-state and to formula_11 during the off-**state**. Therefore, the increase in current during the on-state is given by: where formula_13 is a scalar called the duty cycle with a value between 0 and 1. Conversely, the decrease in current during the of...
1634. ...The rate of change of formula_1 can be calculated from: With formula_9 equal to formula_10 during the on-state and to formula_11 during the off-state. Therefore, the increase in current during the on-**state** is given by: where formula_13 is a scalar called the duty cycle with a value between 0 and 1. Conversely, the decrease in current during the off-state is given by: Assuming that the converter operate...
1635. ...Therefore, the increase in current during the on-state is given by: where formula_13 is a scalar called the duty cycle with a value between 0 and 1. Conversely, the decrease in current during the off-**state** is given by: Assuming that the converter operates in the steady state, the energy stored in each component at the end of a commutation cycle T is equal to that at the beginning of the cycle. That mea...
1636. ...ere formula_13 is a scalar called the duty cycle with a value between 0 and 1. Conversely, the decrease in current during the off-state is given by: Assuming that the converter operates in the steady **state**, the energy stored in each component at the end of a commutation cycle T is equal to that at the beginning of the cycle. That means that the current formula_1 is the same at formula_16 and at formula...
1637. ...efined by the inductor voltage (red lines). As these surfaces are simple rectangles, their areas can be found easily: formula_21 for the yellow rectangle and formula_22 for the orange one. For steady **state** operation, these areas must be equal. As can be seen in figure 4, formula_23 and formula_24. This yields: From this equation, it can be seen that the output voltage of the converter varies linearly w...
1638. ...uring each cycle and therefore higher . A different control technique known as pulse-frequency modulation can be used to minimize these losses. We still consider that the converter operates in steady **state**. Therefore, the energy in the inductor is the same at the beginning and at the end of the cycle (in the case of discontinuous mode, it is zero). This means that the average value of the inductor volt...
1639. ...fections of the real components can have a detrimental effect on the operation of the converter. Output voltage ripple is the name given to the phenomenon where the output voltage rises during the On-**state** and falls during the Off-state. Several factors contribute to this including, but not limited to, switching frequency, output capacitance, inductor, load and any current limiting features of the cont...
1640. ...can have a detrimental effect on the operation of the converter. Output voltage ripple is the name given to the phenomenon where the output voltage rises during the On-state and falls during the Off-**state**. Several factors contribute to this including, but not limited to, switching frequency, output capacitance, inductor, load and any current limiting features of the control circuitry. At the most basi...
1641. ...ly above and may be incorrect. Use the equations in this paragraph. Once again, please see talk tab for more: pertaining output ripple voltage and AoE (Art of Electronics 3rd edition). During the Off-**state**, the current in this equation is the load current. In the On-state the current is the difference between the switch current (or source current) and the load current. The duration of time (d"T") is de...
1642. ...Once again, please see talk tab for more: pertaining output ripple voltage and AoE (Art of Electronics 3rd edition). During the Off-state, the current in this equation is the load current. In the On-**state** the current is the difference between the switch current (or source current) and the load current. The duration of time (d"T") is defined by the duty cycle and by the switching frequency. For the on-...
1643. ...the current is the difference between the switch current (or source current) and the load current. The duration of time (d"T") is defined by the duty cycle and by the switching frequency. For the on-**state**: For the off-state: Qualitatively, as the output capacitance or switching frequency increase, the magnitude of the ripple decreases. Output voltage ripple is typically a design specification for the...
1644. ...difference between the switch current (or source current) and the load current. The duration of time (d"T") is defined by the duty cycle and by the switching frequency. For the on-state: For the off-**state**: Qualitatively, as the output capacitance or switching frequency increase, the magnitude of the ripple decreases. Output voltage ripple is typically a design specification for the power supply and is...
1645. ...ty cycle equation. For a MOSFET voltage drop, a common approximation is to use R from the MOSFET's datasheet in Ohm's Law, V = IR. This approximation is acceptable because the MOSFET is in the linear **state**, with a relatively constant drain-source resistance. This approximation is only valid at relatively low V values. For more accurate calculations, MOSFET datasheets contain graphs on the V and I relat...
1646. ...roved technique for preventing this condition is known as adaptive "non-overlap" protection, in which the voltage at the switch node (the point where S, S and L are joined) is sensed to determine its **state**. When the switch node voltage passes a preset threshold, the time delay is started. The driver can thus adjust to many types of switches without the excessive power loss this flexibility would cause...
1647. ...perature changes while featuring comparatively small relative stress dependent signal amplitude changes. In silicon the piezoresistive effect is used in piezoresistors, transducers, piezo-FETS, solid **state** accelerometers and bipolar transistors. The electrically-conductive packaging material Velostat is used by hobbyists to make pressure sensors due to is piezoresistive properties and low cost. H-1NF T...
1648. ...eon lighting and neon lamps and displays are filled not with pure neon, but with a Penning mixture. The other gas, called a quenching gas, has to have a lower ionization energy than the first excited **state** of the noble gas. The energy of the excited, but neutral, noble gas atoms then can ionize the quench gas particles by energy transfer via collisions; known as the Penning effect. A very common Pennin...
1649. ...the Dai Li. She also encounters Zuko in the city and convinces him to join her in order to redeem himself. During their showdown, Azula strikes Aang with a bolt of lightning while he is in the Avatar **State**, though he is later revived by Katara. Azula then orders the Dai Li to tear down the walls of Ba Sing Se, exposing the city to an invasion and occupation by the Fire Nation. In the early episodes of...
1650. ...personality. From childhood, Azula believed her mother favored Zuko and thought her monstrous, which she admitted to be true but hurt her deeply. After she was betrayed by Mai and Ty Lee, her mental **state** gradually collapsed, as her attacks became far more vicious and she was seemingly obsessed with killing Zuko. After her defeat, it is revealed in the graphic novel "The Promise" that she was admitted...
1651. ...ingly obsessed with killing Zuko. After her defeat, it is revealed in the graphic novel "The Promise" that she was admitted into a mental institution in the Fire Nation due to her deteriorated mental **state**, implied to be schizophrenia. In both the series and the comics, she is shown to be disturbed by frequent hallucinations of her mother although as the comic progresses she is seen to regain her previ...
1652. ...notes that it isn't really possible to teach lightning generation, it's just something particularly powerful firebenders are capable of. Azula is a skilled unarmed fighter and acrobat. In "The Avatar **State**," she bests Zuko in combat without resorting to firebending, and in "," she avoids the combined forces of Aang, Toph, and Sokka for several minutes without her bending to aid her. In "Appa's Lost Day...
1653. ...ve formula is less than 0.18%. New approximation given by R. Jedynak, is the best reported approximant at complexity 11: formula_39 valid for . Its maximum relative error is less than 0.076%. Current **state**-of-the-art diagram of the approximants to the inverse Langevin function  presents the figure below. It is valid for the rational/Padé approximants, A recently published paper by R. Jedynak, provides...
1654. ...al cut set and fundamental circuit matrices. Solution methods: nodal and mesh analysis. Network theorems: superposition, Thevenin and Norton's maximum power transfer, Wye-Delta transformation. Steady **state** sinusoidal analysis using phasors. Linear constant coefficient differential equations; time domain analysis of simple RLC circuits, Solution of network equations using Laplace transform: frequency do...
1655. ...ain analysis of simple RLC circuits, Solution of network equations using Laplace transform: frequency domain analysis of RLC circuits. 2-port network parameters: driving point and transfer functions. **State** equations. "Electronic Devices:" Energy bands in silicon, intrinsic and extrinsic silicon. Carrier transport in silicon: diffusion current, drift current, mobility, resistivity. Generation and recomb...
1656. ...ock diagrams. Open loop and closed loop (feedback) systems and stability analysis of these systems. Signal flow graphs and their use in determining transfer functions of systems; transient and steady **state** analysis of LTI control systems and frequency response. Tools and techniques for LTI control system analysis: root loci, Routh-Hurwitz criterion, Bode and Nyquist plots. Control system compensators:...
1657. ...system analysis: root loci, Routh-Hurwitz criterion, Bode and Nyquist plots. Control system compensators: elements of lead and lag compensation, elements of Proportional-Integral-Derivative control. **State** variable representation and solution of state equation of LTI control systems. Communication systems: amplitude and angle modulation and demodulation systems, spectral analysis of these operations, s...
1658. ...terion, Bode and Nyquist plots. Control system compensators: elements of lead and lag compensation, elements of Proportional-Integral-Derivative control. State variable representation and solution of **state** equation of LTI control systems. Communication systems: amplitude and angle modulation and demodulation systems, spectral analysis of these operations, superheterodyne receivers; elements of hardware...
1659. ...ation vary depending upon location. For example, in the United States and Canada "only a licensed engineer may...seal engineering work for public and private clients". This requirement is enforced by **state** and provincial legislation such as Quebec's Engineers Act. In other countries, such as Australia, no such legislation exists. Practically all certifying bodies maintain a code of ethics that they exp...
1660. ...converter are mainly: Like the buck and boost converters, the operation of the buck-boost is best understood in terms of the inductor's "reluctance" to allow rapid change in current. From the initial **state** in which nothing is charged and the switch is open, the current through the inductor is zero. When the switch is first closed, the blocking diode prevents current from flowing into the right hand sid...
1661. ...tation cycle, the converter is said to operate in continuous mode. The current and voltage waveforms in an ideal converter can be seen in Figure 3. From formula_5 to formula_6, the converter is in On-**State**, so the switch "S" is closed. The rate of change in the inductor current ("I") is therefore given by At the end of the On-state, the increase of "I" is therefore: "D" is the duty cycle. It represents...
1662. ...e seen in Figure 3. From formula_5 to formula_6, the converter is in On-State, so the switch "S" is closed. The rate of change in the inductor current ("I") is therefore given by At the end of the On-**state**, the increase of "I" is therefore: "D" is the duty cycle. It represents the fraction of the commutation period "T" during which the switch is On. Therefore "D" ranges between 0 ("S" is never on) and...
1663. ...D" is the duty cycle. It represents the fraction of the commutation period "T" during which the switch is On. Therefore "D" ranges between 0 ("S" is never on) and 1 ("S" is always on). During the Off-**state**, the switch "S" is open, so the inductor current flows through the load. If we assume zero voltage drop in the diode, and a capacitor large enough for its voltage to remain constant, the evolution of...
1664. ...nd a capacitor large enough for its voltage to remain constant, the evolution of "I" is: Therefore, the variation of "I" during the Off-period is: As we consider that the converter operates in steady-**state** conditions, the amount of energy stored in each of its components has to be the same at the beginning and at the end of a commutation cycle. As the energy in an inductor is given by: it is obvious th...
1665. ...n each of its components has to be the same at the beginning and at the end of a commutation cycle. As the energy in an inductor is given by: it is obvious that the value of "I" at the end of the Off **state** must be the same with the value of "I" at the beginning of the On-state, i.e. the sum of the variations of "I" during the on and the off states must be zero: Substituting formula_13 and formula_14 by...
1666. ...end of a commutation cycle. As the energy in an inductor is given by: it is obvious that the value of "I" at the end of the Off state must be the same with the value of "I" at the beginning of the On-**state**, i.e. the sum of the variations of "I" during the on and the off states must be zero: Substituting formula_13 and formula_14 by their expressions yields: This can be written as: This in return yields...
1667. ...previous equations, δ is: The load current formula_23 is equal to the average diode current (formula_24). As can be seen on figure 4, the diode current is equal to the inductor current during the off-**state**. Therefore, the output current can be written as: Replacing formula_18 and δ by their respective expressions yields: Therefore, the output voltage gain can be written as: Compared to the expression o...
1668. ...e of one long wound piece of wire, so it is likely to exhibit a non-negligible parasitic resistance ("R"). Furthermore, current flows through the inductor both in the on and the off states. Using the **state**-space averaging method, we can write: where formula_46 and formula_47 are respectively the average voltage across the inductor and the switch over the commutation cycle. If we consider that the conve...
1669. ...we can write: where formula_46 and formula_47 are respectively the average voltage across the inductor and the switch over the commutation cycle. If we consider that the converter operates in steady-**state**, the average current through the inductor is constant. The average voltage across the inductor is: When the switch is in the on-state, formula_49. When it is off, the diode is forward biased (we cons...
1670. ...ation cycle. If we consider that the converter operates in steady-state, the average current through the inductor is constant. The average voltage across the inductor is: When the switch is in the on-**state**, formula_49. When it is off, the diode is forward biased (we consider the continuous mode operation), therefore formula_50. Therefore, the average voltage across the switch is: The output current is...
1671. ...iased (we consider the continuous mode operation), therefore formula_50. Therefore, the average voltage across the switch is: The output current is the opposite of the inductor current during the off-**state**. the average inductor current is therefore: Assuming the output current and voltage have negligible ripple, the load of the converter can be considered purely resistive. If R is the resistance of the...
1672. ...in a simple case of 2-layered medium. During the 1940s, he collaborated with geophysicists and without the aid of computers they discovered large deposits of copper. As a result, they were awarded a **State** Prize of Soviet Union. When adequate computers became widely available, the inverse problem of ERT could be solved numerically. The work of Loke and Barker at Birmingham University was among the firs...
1673. ...eloped by Bergveld in the 1970s. There is some confusion as to the relationship between ChemFETs and ISFETs. Whereas an ISFET only detects ions, a ChemFET detects any chemical (including ions). Solid-**state** electronics Solid-state electronics are semiconductor electronics: electronic equipment that use semiconductor devices such as transistors, diodes and integrated circuits (ICs). The term is also used...
1674. ...e 1970s. There is some confusion as to the relationship between ChemFETs and ISFETs. Whereas an ISFET only detects ions, a ChemFET detects any chemical (including ions). Solid-state electronics Solid-**state** electronics are semiconductor electronics: electronic equipment that use semiconductor devices such as transistors, diodes and integrated circuits (ICs). The term is also used as an adjective for dev...
1675. ...odes and integrated circuits (ICs). The term is also used as an adjective for devices in which semiconductor electronics that have no moving parts replace devices with moving parts, such as the solid-**state** relay, in which transistor switches are used in place of a moving-arm electromechanical relay, or the solid-state drive (SSD), a type of semiconductor memory used in computers to replace hard disk dr...
1676. ...ronics that have no moving parts replace devices with moving parts, such as the solid-state relay, in which transistor switches are used in place of a moving-arm electromechanical relay, or the solid-**state** drive (SSD), a type of semiconductor memory used in computers to replace hard disk drives, which store data on a rotating disk. The term "solid-state" became popular at the beginning of the semicondu...
1677. ...moving-arm electromechanical relay, or the solid-state drive (SSD), a type of semiconductor memory used in computers to replace hard disk drives, which store data on a rotating disk. The term "solid-**state**" became popular at the beginning of the semiconductor era in the 1960s to distinguish this new technology. A semiconductor device works by controlling an electric current consisting of electrons or h...
1678. ...semiconducting material such as silicon, while the thermionic vacuum tubes it replaced worked by controlling a current of electrons or ions in a vacuum within a sealed tube. Although the first solid-**state** electronic device was the cat's whisker detector, a crude semiconductor diode invented around 1904, solid-state electronics started with the invention of the transistor in 1947. Before that, all elec...
1679. ...current of electrons or ions in a vacuum within a sealed tube. Although the first solid-state electronic device was the cat's whisker detector, a crude semiconductor diode invented around 1904, solid-**state** electronics started with the invention of the transistor in 1947. Before that, all electronic equipment used vacuum tubes, because vacuum tubes were the only electronic components that could "amplify...
1680. ...hia in 1955. In terms of commercial production, The Fisher TR-1 was the first "all transistor" preamplifier, which became available mid-1956. In 1961, a company named Transis-tronics released a solid-**state** amplifier, the TEC S-15.  The replacement of bulky, fragile, energy-hungry vacuum tubes by transistors in the 1960s and 1970s created a revolution not just in technology but in people's habits, makin...
1681. ...y portable consumer electronics such as the transistor radio, cassette tape player, walkie-talkie and quartz watch, as well as the first practical computers and mobile phones. Other examples of solid **state** electronic devices are the microprocessor chip, LED lamp, solar cell, charge coupled device (CCD) image sensor used in cameras, and semiconductor laser. Also during the 1960s and 1970s, television se...
1682. ...) image sensor used in cameras, and semiconductor laser. Also during the 1960s and 1970s, television set manufacturers switched from vacuum tubes to semiconductors, and advertised sets as "100% solid **state**" even though the cathode-ray tube (CRT) was still a vacuum tube. It meant only the chassis was 100% solid-state, not including the CRT. Early advertisements spelled out this distinction, but later ad...
1683. ...turers switched from vacuum tubes to semiconductors, and advertised sets as "100% solid state" even though the cathode-ray tube (CRT) was still a vacuum tube. It meant only the chassis was 100% solid-**state**, not including the CRT. Early advertisements spelled out this distinction, but later advertisements assumed the audience had already been educated about it and shortened it to just "100% solid state"...
1684. ...-state, not including the CRT. Early advertisements spelled out this distinction, but later advertisements assumed the audience had already been educated about it and shortened it to just "100% solid **state**". LED displays can be said to be truly 100% solid-state. Capacitor-spring analogy There are several formal analogies that can be made between electricity, which is invisible to the eye, and more fami...
1685. ...led out this distinction, but later advertisements assumed the audience had already been educated about it and shortened it to just "100% solid state". LED displays can be said to be truly 100% solid-**state**. Capacitor-spring analogy There are several formal analogies that can be made between electricity, which is invisible to the eye, and more familiar physical behaviors, such as the flowing of water or...
1686. ...poor, requiring de-rating the motor (typically to 60% or less). Overheating, and quite often destruction of the motor, will result from failing to do so. (Many manufacturers and dealers specifically **state** that using a static converter will void any warranty.) An oversized static converter can remove the need to de-rate the motor, but at an increased cost. The popularity of the Variable-frequency drive...
1687. ...ctly to the amount of electricity passing through the solution. These findings led Faraday to a new theory of electrochemistry. The electric force, he argued, threw the molecules of a solution into a **state** of tension. When the force was strong enough to distort the forces that held the molecules together so as to permit the interaction with neighbouring particles, the tension was relieved by the migrat...
1688. ...e amount of electricity that passed, then, was clearly related to the chemical affinities of the substances in solution. These experiments led directly to Faraday's two laws of electrochemistry which **state**: William Sturgeon built an electric motor in 1832 and invented the commutator, a ring of metal-bristled brushes which allow the spinning armature to maintain contact with the electric current and cha...
1689. ...des of electrical steel, may range from about 2 to 10 watts per kilogram (1 to 5 watts per pound) at 60 Hz and 1.5 tesla magnetic field strength. Electrical steel can be delivered in a semi-processed **state** so that, after punching the final shape, a final heat treatment can be applied to form the normally required 150-micrometer grain size. Fully processed electrical steel is usually delivered with an i...
1690. ...for MODTRAN in order to facilitate user interaction and ease of use. Bond graph A bond graph is a graphical representation of a physical dynamic system. It allows the conversion of the system into a **state**-space representation. It is similar to a block diagram or signal-flow graph, with the major difference that the arcs in bond graphs represent bi-directional exchange of physical energy, while those i...
1691. ...invented by Henry Paynter. Many systems can be expressed in terms used in bond graph. These terms are expressed in the table below. Conventions for the table below: Other systems: The tetrahedron of **state** is a tetrahedron that graphically shows the conversion between effort and flow. The adjacent image shows the tetrahedron in its generalized form. The tetrahedron can be modified depending on the ener...
1692. ...hows the conversion between effort and flow. The adjacent image shows the tetrahedron in its generalized form. The tetrahedron can be modified depending on the energy domain. Using the tetrahedron of **state**, one can find a mathematical relationship between any variables on the tetrahedron. This is done by following the arrows around the diagram and multiplying any constants along the way. For example, i...
1693. ...sing any relevant information. However, the bond number should not be dropped. The example can be seen below. formula_22 The bond number will be important later when converting from the bond graph to **state**-space equations. Suppose that an element has the following behavior: formula_23 where formula_24 is a generic function (it can even differentiate/integrate its input) and formula_25 is the element's...
1694. ...nent determines flow; a formula_59 component defines effort. So from a junction, formula_62, the preferred causal orientation is as follows: formula_63 These equations can be manipulated to yield the **state** equations. For this example, you are trying to find equations that relate formula_74 and formula_75 in terms of formula_76, formula_77, and formula_78. To start you should recall from the tetrahedron...
1695. ...ations. For this example, you are trying to find equations that relate formula_74 and formula_75 in terms of formula_76, formula_77, and formula_78. To start you should recall from the tetrahedron of **state** that formula_79starting with equation 2, you can rearrange it so that formula_80. formula_81 can be substituted for equation 4, while in equation 4, formula_82 can be replaced by formula_83due to equ...
1696. ...n 5. formula_84 can likewise be replaced using equation 7, in which formula_85can be replaced with formula_86 which can then be replaced with equation 10. Following these substituted yields the first **state** equation which is shown below. formula_87 The second state equation can likewise be solved, by recalling that formula_88. The second state equation is shown below. formula_89 Both equations can furth...
1697. ...in which formula_85can be replaced with formula_86 which can then be replaced with equation 10. Following these substituted yields the first state equation which is shown below. formula_87 The second **state** equation can likewise be solved, by recalling that formula_88. The second state equation is shown below. formula_89 Both equations can further be rearranged into matrix form. The result of which is b...
1698. ...th equation 10. Following these substituted yields the first state equation which is shown below. formula_87 The second state equation can likewise be solved, by recalling that formula_88. The second **state** equation is shown below. formula_89 Both equations can further be rearranged into matrix form. The result of which is below. formula_90 At this point the equations can be treated as any other state-s...
1699. ...d state equation is shown below. formula_89 Both equations can further be rearranged into matrix form. The result of which is below. formula_90 At this point the equations can be treated as any other **state**-space representation problem. A bibliography on bond graph modeling may be extracted from the following conferences : Ferroics In physics, ferroics is the generic name given to the study of ferromagn...
1700. ...physical characteristics occur when phase transitions take place around some critical temperature value, normally denoted by formula_1. Above this critical temperature, the crystal is in a nonferroic **state** and does not exhibit the physical characteristic of interest. Upon cooling the material down below formula_1 it undergoes a spontaneous phase transition. Such a phase transition typically results in...
1701. ...rms a capacitor against the insulated substrate. The charge accumulates on this capacitor and may cause adverse effects, for example, opening of parasitic transistors in the structure and causing off-**state** leakages, resulting in higher current consumption and in case of DRAM in loss of information from the memory cells. It also causes the history effect, the dependence of the threshold voltage of the t...
1702. ...ain voltage balance, a digital phase converter can safely and efficiently operate virtually any type of three-phase equipment or any number of multiple loads. Since Digital Phase Converters are solid-**state** designs, there are little to no moving parts except for cooling fans. In turn, this allows digital phase converters to be fit into small packages and operate between 95% and 98% efficiency. These con...
1703. .... CEM models extensively make use of symmetry, and solve for reduced dimensionality from 3 spatial dimensions to 2D and even 1D. An eigenvalue problem formulation of CEM allows us to calculate steady **state** normal modes in a structure. Transient response and impulse field effects are more accurately modeled by CEM in time domain, by FDTD. Curved geometrical objects are treated more accurately as finite...
1704. ...(FEM) is used to find approximate solution of partial differential equations (PDE) and integral equations. The solution approach is based either on eliminating the time derivatives completely (steady **state** problems), or rendering the PDE into an equivalent ordinary differential equation, which is then solved using standard techniques such as finite differences, etc. In solving partial differential equa...
1705. ...stomers. Smart meters expose the power grid to cyberattacks that could lead to power outages, both by cutting off people's electricity and by overloading the grid. However many cyber security experts **state** that smart meters of UK and Germany have relatively high cybersecurity and that any such attack there would thus require extraordinarily high efforts or financial resources. The EU Cyber security Act...
1706. ...c utility smart meters have been released so far. Most health concerns about the meters arise from the pulsed radiofrequency (RF) radiation emitted by wireless smart meters. Members of the California **State** Assembly asked the California Council on Science and Technology (CCST) to study the issue of potential health impacts from smart meters, in particular whether current FCC standards are protective of...
1707. ...-out of Sensus meters after similar, isolated incidents were discovered. Shortly afterward, Portland General Electric announced that it would replace 70,000 smart meters that had been deployed in the **state** of Oregon after similar reports. The company noted that it had been aware of the issues since at least 2013, and they were limited to specific models it had installed between 2010 and 2012. On July 3...
1708. ...from the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission. After receiving numerous complaints about health, hacking, and privacy concerns with the wireless digital devices, the Public Utility Commission of the US **state** of Maine voted to allow customers to opt-out of the meter change at the cost of $12 a month. In Connecticut, another US state to consider smart metering, regulators declined a request by the state's...
1709. ...ith the wireless digital devices, the Public Utility Commission of the US state of Maine voted to allow customers to opt-out of the meter change at the cost of $12 a month. In Connecticut, another US **state** to consider smart metering, regulators declined a request by the state's largest utility, Connecticut Light & Power, to install 1.2 million of the devices, arguing that the potential savings in elect...
1710. ...US state of Maine voted to allow customers to opt-out of the meter change at the cost of $12 a month. In Connecticut, another US state to consider smart metering, regulators declined a request by the **state**'s largest utility, Connecticut Light & Power, to install 1.2 million of the devices, arguing that the potential savings in electric bills do not justify the cost. CL&P already offers its customers ti...
1711. ...Connecticut Light & Power, to install 1.2 million of the devices, arguing that the potential savings in electric bills do not justify the cost. CL&P already offers its customers time-based rates. The **state**'s Attorney General George Jepsen was quoted as saying the proposal would cause customers to spend upwards of $500 million on meters and get few benefits in return, a claim that Connecticut Light & Po...
1712. ...or gas mixtures. Michael Faraday described this phenomenon as "the beautiful flash of light attending the discharge of common electricity". The rapid transition from a non-conducting to a conductive **state** produces a brief emission of light and a sharp crack or snapping sound. A spark is created when the applied electric field exceeds the dielectric breakdown strength of the intervening medium. For air...
1713. ...ionic potential and illustrated this with a diagram (plot of the bare ionic radius as a function of the ionic charge). For instance, the solubility of dissolved iron is highly dependent on its redox **state**. with a lower ionic potential than is much more soluble because it exerts a weaker interaction force with ion present in water and exhibits a less pronounced trend to hydrolysis and precipitation. Un...
1714. ...do so. The aim of Directive 2014/34/EU is to allow the free trade of ‘ATEX’ equipment and protective systems within the EU by removing the need for separate testing and documentation for each member **state**. The regulations apply to all equipment intended for use in explosive atmospheres, whether electrical or mechanical, including protective systems. There are two categories of equipment: 'I' for minin...
1715. ...n. Pulsating direct current has an average value equal to a constant (DC) along with a time-dependent pulsating component added to it, while the average value of alternating current is zero in steady **state** (or a constant if it has a DC offset, value of which will then be equal to that offset). Devices and circuits may respond differently to pulsating DC than they would to non-pulsating DC, such as a ba...
1716. ...metal complexes. Diradicals are usually triplets. The phrases "singlet" and "triplet" are derived from the multiplicity of states of diradicals in electron spin resonance: a singlet diradical has one **state** (S=0, M=2*0+1=1, m=0) and exhibits no signal in EPR and a triplet diradical has 3 states (S=1, M=2*1+1=3, m=-1; 0; 1) and shows in EPR 2 peaks (if no hyperfine splitting). The triplet state has total...
1717. ...l has one state (S=0, M=2*0+1=1, m=0) and exhibits no signal in EPR and a triplet diradical has 3 states (S=1, M=2*1+1=3, m=-1; 0; 1) and shows in EPR 2 peaks (if no hyperfine splitting). The triplet **state** has total spin quantum number S=1 and is paramagnetic. Therefore, diradical species display a triplet state when the two electrons are unpaired and display the same spin. When the unpaired electrons...
1718. ...1, M=2*1+1=3, m=-1; 0; 1) and shows in EPR 2 peaks (if no hyperfine splitting). The triplet state has total spin quantum number S=1 and is paramagnetic. Therefore, diradical species display a triplet **state** when the two electrons are unpaired and display the same spin. When the unpaired electrons with opposite spin are antiferromagnetically coupled, diradical species can display a singlet state (S=0) an...
1719. ...triplet state when the two electrons are unpaired and display the same spin. When the unpaired electrons with opposite spin are antiferromagnetically coupled, diradical species can display a singlet **state** (S=0) and be diamagnetic. Stable, isolable, diradicals include singlet oxygen and triplet oxygen. Other important diradicals are certain carbenes, nitrenes, and their main-group elemental analogues....
1720. ...er, such as diphosphadiboretanes. In inorganic chemistry, both homoleptic and heteroleptic 1,2-dithiolene complexes of d transition metal ions show a large degree of diradical character in the ground **state**. Nickel(III) oxide Nickel (III) oxide is the inorganic compound with the formula NiO. It is not well characterized, and is sometimes referred to as black nickel oxide. Traces of NiO on nickel surface...
1721. ...ed by the Shockley equation. The Shockley equation doesn't model noise (such as Johnson–Nyquist noise from the internal resistance, or shot noise). The Shockley equation is a constant current (steady **state**) relationship, and thus doesn't account for the diode's transient response, which includes the influence of its internal junction and diffusion capacitance and reverse recovery time. Shockley derives...
1722. ...are made to collide), the advanced analytical equipment used to study physical properties of materials or the vacuum chambers within which cryogenic systems are placed to execute operations in solid **state** Qubits for quantum computation. Vacuum engineering also has its deep bearings in manufacturing technology. Vacuum techniques vary depending on the desired vacuum pressure to be achieved. For a "rough...
1723. ...s minds. Her powers increase proportionate to physical intimacy, enabling her greater ability to psychically manipulate and read others. Early on, she was able to shapeshift into a humanoid wolf-like **state**, complete with fur and claws, and in this state her personality became savage and feral. Later this power was changed so that she shifted into a Daemonite form. An elderly Daemonite appeared to her a...
1724. ...ysical intimacy, enabling her greater ability to psychically manipulate and read others. Early on, she was able to shapeshift into a humanoid wolf-like state, complete with fur and claws, and in this **state** her personality became savage and feral. Later this power was changed so that she shifted into a Daemonite form. An elderly Daemonite appeared to her and taught her the use of her hidden powers of re...
1725. ...he Department of Science and Technology. With the commissioning of ADITYA in 1989, full-fledged tokamak experiments started at IPR. A 1995 decision led to the second generation superconducting steady-**state** tokamak SST-1, capable of 1000-second operation. Due to this, the institute grew rapidly and came under the Department of Atomic Energy. The industrial plasma activities were reorganized under the Fa...
1726. ...h representatives from the Institute for Plasma Research, Gandhinagar, Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad, Bhabha Atomic Research Center, Bombay, and Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics, Calcutta; **state** government officers and local members. The government of Assam established the Centre of Plasma Physics in 1991. The centre started functioning in April 1991 in a rented house located at Saptaswahid...
1727. ...the unique feature of unity in diversity. Nazirakhat is linked by a PWD road from the National Highway No. 37. It is about 800 metres from NH-37. Nazirakhat is connected by road with the rest of the **state** and the country. The institute is surrounded by greenery near the Air-India flying base at Sonapur. Research papers have been published in journals like Phys after the institute's establishment. Scr....
1728. ...by setting the plant as Project-706 under Bashiruddin Mahmood, a nuclear engineer, in 1974. In 1976, the difficulties encountered in preliminary studies under Mahmood on understanding the equation of **state** of uranium indicated the need for a dedicated laboratory solely to that purpose. Work on establishing the laboratory was initiated by the army's Engineer-in-Chief who selected Brigadier Zahid Ali Akb...
1729. ...the ERL was intended to spur innovation and provide competition to the weapon design with the second lab in Nilore running under the PAEC's contract. Under Abdul Qadeer Khan, the work on equation of **state** of uranium began with drs. G. D. Alam, Tasneem Shah, and Anwar Ali who served as co-principle investigators at Kahuta. Initially, a large numbers of centrifuges were deployed but they were scaled dow...
1730. ...d as co-principle investigators at Kahuta. Initially, a large numbers of centrifuges were deployed but they were scaled down to few centrifuges after revised critical mass calculations on equation of **state** of uranium by Abdul Qadeer Khan and his co-investigators in 1980s. Its official name changed to Khan Research Laboratory (KRL) in 1981 by Presidential decree, which also allowed its status as a natio...
1731. ...laboratory. Globally, the KRL has a prestige in conducting research into properties and behavior of uranium to learn how uranium is scaled to industrial-to-weapon-grade level and how its equation of **state** changes under the extreme pressure and temperature. For such investigation, principle investigators employed the Zippe method (local designation: Khan Centrifuge) that runs about 100,000 rpm on conti...
1732. ...onal security. The technology of krytron was also built at the KRL which was then transferred to Heavy Industries Taxila, an army laboratory based in Taxila. Besides the understanding the equation of **state** of uranium, the KRL also embarked on pioneering work on vacuum science and its extended application in plasma physics– its first paper on plasma physics was written in 1998. In 1983, the KRL was able...
1733. ...as established which specialized in conducting high performance computations on shock waves in weapons effect from the outer surface to the inner core by using difficult differential equations of the **state** of the materials used in the bomb under high pressure. The KRL was major participant in MoD's Hatf program (lit. "Target"). The lab served as a chief designer of the warhead design, control systems,...
1734. ...erial align, leading to a decrease in dipolar entropy and the release of heat, resulting in a temperature rise. Conversely, when the electric field is removed, the dipoles return to a more disordered **state**, causing the material to absorb heat from its surroundings, resulting in a temperature decrease. This effect is being explored for use in solid-state cooling applications, particularly in areas where...
1735. ...removed, the dipoles return to a more disordered state, causing the material to absorb heat from its surroundings, resulting in a temperature decrease. This effect is being explored for use in solid-**state** cooling applications, particularly in areas where traditional cooling methods may be less efficient or impractical, such as in portable devices, microelectronics, and distributed thermal management....
1736. ...is attached. This effect, particularly strong near phase transitions like the Curie temperature, far exceeded previous results in bulk materials. The study highlighted thin films' potential for solid-**state** cooling and suggested further material improvements could enhance practical applications.  In 2008, researchers discovered a giant electrocaloric effect in ferroelectric polymers near room temperatur...
1737. ...e change of over 20 K under a low electric field. The study highlights the potential of interfacial engineering in electrocaloric materials, offering promising applications in energy-efficient, solid-**state** cooling. Electrocaloric (EC) devices use the electrocaloric effect, where an electric field causes a reversible temperature change in a material. EC cooling cycles, similar to traditional refrigerati...
1738. ...oling. The EC effect involves a temperature change in a dielectric material when an electric field is applied or removed, making it suitable for compact cooling solutions. In 2013, a chip-scale solid-**state** cooling system utilizing EC polymer films was demonstrated, achieving a 6 K temperature span near room temperature through a prototype EC Oscillatory Refrigeration (ECOR) device. In 2015, a small-sca...
1739. ...trating the potential of EC materials for high-efficiency cooling applications. A study in 2020 on electrocaloric devices made significant strides in advancing the design and performance of all-solid-**state** cooling systems. The research introduced a scalable, high-performance EC cooling system based on multilayer ceramic PST capacitors (MLCCs). By leveraging a modular, self-regenerating architecture and...
1740. ...te, the officiant would sacrifice a two-year-old sheep (called a bidens). Finally, an altar was built, and surrounded by a wall or fence to keep any trespassers away. Occasionally when falling into a **state** of decay, Bidentals would be repaired or reconstructed. Considered sacred space, a bidental was not to be touched, trod upon, or even looked at after completion.  Places being struck by lightning wer...
1741. ...by inorganic chemists in electrochemistry to illustrate the relative stability of a number of different oxidation states of a particular substance. The graph illustrates the free energy vs oxidation **state** of a chemical species. This effect is dependent on pH, so this parameter also must be included. The free energy is determined by the oxidation–reduction half-reactions. The Frost diagram allows easie...
1742. ...iagram is named after , who originally invented it as a way to "show both free energy and oxidation potential data conveniently" in a 1951 paper. The Frost diagram shows on its "x" axis the oxidation **state** of the species in question, and on its "y" axis the difference in Gibbs free energy, Δ"G"°, of the half-reduction reaction of the species multiplied by the sign minus and divided by the Faraday const...
1743. ...ergy. Increasing stability (lower free energy) is lower on the graph, so the higher free energy and higher on the graph a species of an element is, the more unstable and reactive it is. The oxidation **state** (sometimes also called oxidation number as on the x axis of two illustrating figures on this page) of the species is shown on the "x" axis of the Frost diagram. Oxidation states are unitless and are...
1744. ...ge) of the species is shown on the "x" axis of the Frost diagram. Oxidation states are unitless and are also scaled in positive and negative integers. Most often, the Frost diagram displays oxidation **state** in increasing order, but in some cases it is displayed in decreasing order. The neutral species of the pure element with a free energy of zero ("nE"° = 0) also has an oxidation state equal to zero. H...
1745. ...splays oxidation state in increasing order, but in some cases it is displayed in decreasing order. The neutral species of the pure element with a free energy of zero ("nE"° = 0) also has an oxidation **state** equal to zero. However, the energy of some allotropes may not be zero. The slope of the line therefore represents the standard potential between two oxidation states. In other words, the steepness of...
1746. ...een two species indicates a tendency for an oxidation reaction, while a negative slope between two species indicates a tendency for reduction. For example, if the manganese in [HMnO] has an oxidation **state** of +6 and "nE"° = 4, and in MnO the oxidation state is +4 and "nE"° = 0, then the slope Δ"y"/Δ"x" is 4/2 = 2, yielding a standard potential of +2. The stability of any terms can be similarly found by...
1747. ...n reaction, while a negative slope between two species indicates a tendency for reduction. For example, if the manganese in [HMnO] has an oxidation state of +6 and "nE"° = 4, and in MnO the oxidation **state** is +4 and "nE"° = 0, then the slope Δ"y"/Δ"x" is 4/2 = 2, yielding a standard potential of +2. The stability of any terms can be similarly found by this graph. The slope of the line between any two p...
1748. ...tion:  In regards to electrochemical reactions, two main types of reactions can be visualized using the Frost diagram. Comproportionation is when two equivalents of an element, differing in oxidation **state**, combine to form a product with an intermediate oxidation state. Disproportionation is the opposite reaction, in which two equivalents of an element, identical in oxidation state, react to form two p...
1749. ...f reactions can be visualized using the Frost diagram. Comproportionation is when two equivalents of an element, differing in oxidation state, combine to form a product with an intermediate oxidation **state**. Disproportionation is the opposite reaction, in which two equivalents of an element, identical in oxidation state, react to form two products with differing oxidation states. Using a Frost diagram,...
1750. ...ffering in oxidation state, combine to form a product with an intermediate oxidation state. Disproportionation is the opposite reaction, in which two equivalents of an element, identical in oxidation **state**, react to form two products with differing oxidation states. Using a Frost diagram, one can predict whether one oxidation state would undergo disproportionation, or two oxidation states would undergo...
1751. ...eaction, in which two equivalents of an element, identical in oxidation state, react to form two products with differing oxidation states. Using a Frost diagram, one can predict whether one oxidation **state** would undergo disproportionation, or two oxidation states would undergo comproportionation. Looking at two slopes among a set of three oxidation states on the diagram, assuming the two standard poten...
1752. ...states would undergo comproportionation. Looking at two slopes among a set of three oxidation states on the diagram, assuming the two standard potentials (slopes) are not equal, the middle oxidation **state** will either be in a “hill” or in a “valley” shape. A hill is formed when the left slope is steeper than the right, and a valley is formed when the right slope is steeper than the left. An oxidation s...
1753. ...e will either be in a “hill” or in a “valley” shape. A hill is formed when the left slope is steeper than the right, and a valley is formed when the right slope is steeper than the left. An oxidation **state** that is on “top of the hill” tends to favor disproportionation into the adjacent oxidation states. The adjacent oxidation states, however, will favor comproportionation if the middle oxidation state...
1754. ...state that is on “top of the hill” tends to favor disproportionation into the adjacent oxidation states. The adjacent oxidation states, however, will favor comproportionation if the middle oxidation **state** is in the “bottom of a valley”. By Jensen's inequality, drawing the line between the oxidation state to the left and the one to the right and seeing if the species lies above or below this line is a...
1755. ...tes. The adjacent oxidation states, however, will favor comproportionation if the middle oxidation state is in the “bottom of a valley”. By Jensen's inequality, drawing the line between the oxidation **state** to the left and the one to the right and seeing if the species lies above or below this line is a quick way to determine concavity/convexity (concavity would indicate comproportionation, for example)...
1756. ...The Yang–Baxter equation guarantees consistency of the construction. The Pauli exclusion principle is valid for models solvable by the Bethe ansatz, even for models of interacting bosons. The ground **state** is a Fermi sphere. Periodic boundary conditions lead to the Bethe ansatz equations or simply Bethe equations. In logarithmic form the Bethe ansatz equations can be generated by the Yang action. The s...
1757. ...vessel surrounding all of this was likewise very complex, with the added complication of carrying all of the wiring to feed power to the magnets. The assembly tolerances were very tight and required **state** of the art use of metrology systems including Laser Tracker and photogrammetry equipment. $50 million of additional funding was needed, spread over the next 3 years, to complete the assembly within t...
1758. ...trated in SFS and in underdamped SIFS junctions. Further, physicists were able to demonstrate a molecule made of two interacting semifluxons arranged antiferromagnetically. It has a degenerate ground **state** up-down or down-up. It was shown that one can readout the state of such a semifluxon molecule by using on-chip SQUIDs. One can also switch between the up-down or down-up states of the molecule by app...
1759. ...ists were able to demonstrate a molecule made of two interacting semifluxons arranged antiferromagnetically. It has a degenerate ground state up-down or down-up. It was shown that one can readout the **state** of such a semifluxon molecule by using on-chip SQUIDs. One can also switch between the up-down or down-up states of the molecule by applying the current. Spin ice A spin ice is a magnetic substance t...
1760. ...-chip SQUIDs. One can also switch between the up-down or down-up states of the molecule by applying the current. Spin ice A spin ice is a magnetic substance that does not have a single minimal-energy **state**. It has magnetic moments (i.e. "spin") as elementary degrees of freedom which are subject to frustrated interactions. By their nature, these interactions prevent the moments from exhibiting a periodi...
1761. ...in ices are materials that consist of regular corner-linked tetrahedra of magnetic ions, each of which has a non-zero magnetic moment, often abridged to "spin", which must satisfy in their low-energy **state** a "two-in, two-out" rule on each tetrahedron making the crystalline structure (see figure 2). This is highly analogous to the two-near, two far rule in water ice (see figure 1). Just as Pauling showe...
1762. ...ction, and "not" the nearest-neighbor exchange, that causes the frustration and the consequential two-in, two-out rule that leads to the spin ice phenomenology. For a tetrahedron in a two-in, two-out **state**, the magnetization field is divergent-free; there is as much "magnetization intensity" entering a tetrahedron as there is leaving (see figure 3). In such a divergent-free situation, there exists no s...
1763. ...th praseodymium (Pr), terbium (Tb) and ytterbium (Yb) being possible candidates. One reason for the interest in quantum spin ice is the belief that these systems may harbor a "quantum spin liquid", a **state** of matter where magnetic moments continue to wiggle (fluctuate) down to absolute zero temperature. The theory describing the low-temperature and low-energy properties of quantum spin ice is akin to t...
1764. ...ts of solid-liquid phase change material, with each droplet containing a single magnetic dipole particle, form an artificial spin ice above the droplet melting point, and, after cooling, a spin glass **state** with low bulk remanence. Spontaneous emergence of 2D magnetic vortices was observed in such spin ices, which vortex geometries were correlated with the external bulk remanence. Future work in this fi...
1765. ...More complex solutions using active components can be used when more straightforward options are unsuitable. Some electronic circuits employ active current limiting since a fuse may not protect solid-**state** devices. One style of current limiting circuit is shown in the image. The schematic represents a simple protection mechanism used in regulated DC supplies and class-AB power amplifiers. Q1 is the pas...
1766. ...kosov vortices in superconductors, Josephson vortices in SNS Josephson junctions are characterized by cores in which the correlations are suppressed by destructive quantum interference and the normal **state** is recovered. However, unlike Abrikosov cores, having a size ~ξ, the size of the Josephson ones is not defined by microscopic parameters only. Rather, it depends on supercurrents circulating in super...
1767. ...power supply, changes in the current drawn by one element may produce voltage changes large enough to affect the operation of others – voltage spikes or ground bounce, for example – so the change of **state** of one device is coupled to others through the common impedance to the power supply. A decoupling capacitor provides a bypass path for transient currents, instead of flowing through the common impeda...
1768. ...ties, such as the splitting of the longitudinal and transverse acoustic modes ("i.e.", LA-TA splitting, an analogue to the LO-TO splitting in ionic compound), the universal but robust gapless surface **state** in insulating electride that forming a "de facto" real space topological distribution of charge carriers, and the colossal charge state of some impurities in them. Layered electrides or electrenes ar...
1769. ...ng in ionic compound), the universal but robust gapless surface state in insulating electride that forming a "de facto" real space topological distribution of charge carriers, and the colossal charge **state** of some impurities in them. Layered electrides or electrenes are single-layer materials consisting of alternating atomically thin two-dimensional layers of electrons and ionized atoms. The first exam...
1770. ...theorem of quantum field theory demands that all particles with half-integer spin behave as fermions and all particles with integer spin behave as bosons. Multiple bosons may occupy the same quantum **state**; however, by the Pauli exclusion principle, no two fermions can occupy the same state. Since electrons have spin 1/2, they are fermions. This means that the overall wave function of a system must be...
1771. ...ave as fermions and all particles with integer spin behave as bosons. Multiple bosons may occupy the same quantum state; however, by the Pauli exclusion principle, no two fermions can occupy the same **state**. Since electrons have spin 1/2, they are fermions. This means that the overall wave function of a system must be antisymmetric when two electrons are exchanged, i.e. interchanged with respect to both...
1772. ...h spatial and spin coordinates. First, however, exchange will be explained with the neglect of spin. Taking a hydrogen molecule-like system (i.e. one with two electrons), one may attempt to model the **state** of each electron by first assuming the electrons behave independently (that is, as if the Pauli exclusion principle did not apply), and taking wave functions in position space of formula_9 for the fi...
1773. ...a type-I superconductor had positive free energy of the superconductor-normal metal boundary. Ginzburg and Landau pointed out the possibility of type-II superconductors that should form inhomogeneous **state** in strong magnetic fields. However, at that time, all known superconductors were type-I, and they commented that there was no experimental motivation to consider precise structure of type-II supercon...
1774. ...ng magnetic fields. However, at that time, all known superconductors were type-I, and they commented that there was no experimental motivation to consider precise structure of type-II superconducting **state**. The theory for the behavior of the type-II superconducting state in magnetic field was greatly improved by Alexei Alexeyevich Abrikosov, who was elaborating on the ideas by Lars Onsager and Richard...
1775. ...rs were type-I, and they commented that there was no experimental motivation to consider precise structure of type-II superconducting state. The theory for the behavior of the type-II superconducting **state** in magnetic field was greatly improved by Alexei Alexeyevich Abrikosov, who was elaborating on the ideas by Lars Onsager and Richard Feynman of quantum vortices in superfluids. Quantum vortex solutio...
1776. ...hemselves into a regular array known as a "vortex lattice". Near a so-called upper critical magnetic field, the problem of a superconductor in an external field is equivalent to the problem of vortex **state** in a rotating superfluid, discussed by Lars Onsager and Richard Feynman.  In the vortex state, a phenomenon known as flux pinning becomes possible. This is not possible with type-I superconductors, s...
1777. ...gnetic field, the problem of a superconductor in an external field is equivalent to the problem of vortex state in a rotating superfluid, discussed by Lars Onsager and Richard Feynman.  In the vortex **state**, a phenomenon known as flux pinning becomes possible. This is not possible with type-I superconductors, since they cannot be penetrated by magnetic fields.  If a superconductor is cooled in a field,...
1778. ...itar discovered new powers that no other living speedster has mastered. He can protect himself in a null-inertia force field, give speed and kinetic energy to objects or people, even those in a "rest **state**", and he could also heal his own injuries almost instantly. Savitar's obsession gained followers, and he was the leader of a cult. In search of more knowledge, he sought out the only super-speed hero...
1779. ...to take any chances, he turned him down, but told him to go and visit Saturn Girl, who had been hospitalized after the strain from shutting down Composite Man's mind regressed her mind to a childlike **state**. Upon seeing her have a tantrum, though, he could not bring himself to go in. Shortly after, several Daxamites attacked Earth, and when Garth visited Legion HQ to see if he could help, he was given a...
1780. ...stopping power) is usually expressed in units of keV/μm. In "space applications", electronic devices can be disturbed by the passage of energetic electrons, protons or heavier ions that may alter the **state** of a circuit, producing "single event effects". The effect of the radiation is described by the LET (which is here taken as synonymous with stopping power), typically expressed in units of MeV·cm/mg...
1781. ...es Légendaires Origines" in 2014. Transient response In electrical engineering and mechanical engineering, a transient response is the response of a system to a change from an equilibrium or a steady **state**. The transient response is not necessarily tied to abrupt events but to any event that affects the equilibrium of the system. The impulse response and step response are transient responses to a speci...
1782. ...put (an impulse and a step, respectively). In electrical engineering specifically, the transient response is the circuit’s temporary response that will die out with time. It is followed by the steady **state** response, which is the behavior of the circuit a long time after an external excitation is applied. The response can be classified as one of three types of damping that describes the output in relati...
1783. ...is the behavior of the circuit a long time after an external excitation is applied. The response can be classified as one of three types of damping that describes the output in relation to the steady-**state** response. Transient response can be quantified with the following properties. Oscillation is an effect caused by a transient stimulus to an underdamped circuit or system. It is a transient event prec...
1784. ...sponse can be quantified with the following properties. Oscillation is an effect caused by a transient stimulus to an underdamped circuit or system. It is a transient event preceding the final steady **state** following a sudden change of a circuit or start-up. Mathematically, it can be modeled as a damped harmonic oscillator. Inductor volt-second balance and capacitor ampere-second balance are disturbed b...
1785. ...mped harmonic oscillator. Inductor volt-second balance and capacitor ampere-second balance are disturbed by transients. These balances encapsulate the circuit analysis simplifications used for steady-**state** AC circuits. An example of transient oscillation can be found in digital (pulse) signals in computer networks. Each pulse produces two transients, an oscillation resulting from the sudden rise in vol...
1786. ...es are quasi-one-dimensional at room-temperature, only conducting along the molecule stacks, and share a very rich phase diagram containing antiferromagnetic ordering, charge order, spin-density wave **state**, dimensional crossover and superconductivity. Only one Bechgaard salt was found to be superconducting at ambient pressure which is (TMTTF)ClO with a transition temperature of T = 1.4 K. Several other...
1787. ...tronic properties of the ET-based crystals are determined by its growing phase, its anion and by the external pressure applied. The external pressure needed to drive an ET-salt with insulating ground **state** to a superconducting one is much less than those needed for Bechgaard salts. For example, κ-(ET)Cu[N(CN)]Cl needs only a pressure of about 300 bar to become superconducting, which can be achieved by...
1788. ...ts have only been proposed yet. Such a phase diagram would depend not only on temperature and pressure (i.e. bandwidth), but also on electronic correlations. In addition to the superconducting ground **state** these materials show charge-order, antiferromagnetism or remain metallic down to lowest temperatures. One compound is even predicted to be a spin liquid. The highest transition temperatures at ambien...
1789. ...nions. κ-(ET)Cu[N(CN)]Br becomes superconducting at T = 11.8 K at ambient pressure, and a pressure of 300 bar drives deuterated κ-(ET)Cu[N(CN)]Cl from an antiferromagnetic to a superconducting ground **state** with a transition temperature of T = 13.1 K. The following table shows only a few exemplary superconductors of this class. For more superconductors, see Lebed (2008) in the references. Even more supe...
1790. ...s theorem). The method of images may also be used in magnetostatics for calculating the magnetic field of a magnet that is close to a superconducting surface. The superconductor in so-called Meissner **state** is an ideal diamagnet into which the magnetic field does not penetrate. Therefore, the normal component of the magnetic field on its surface should be zero. Then the image of the magnet should be mir...
1791. ...time, they are switched off (but are designed to draw some power) or in standby mode. It only occurs because some devices claim to be "switched off" on the electronic interface but are in a different **state**. Switching off the plug or disconnecting it from the power point can completely solve the problem of standby power. Switching off the power point is effective enough; there is no need to disconnect a...
1792. ...ssed. The model to keep in mind in the understanding of how superconductivity occurs in a two-dimensional disordered superconductor is the following. At high temperatures, the system is in the normal **state**. As the system is cooled towards its transition temperature, superconducting grains begin to fluctuate in and out of existence. When one of these grains "pops" into existence, it is accelerated witho...
1793. ...ting grains begin to fluctuate in and out of existence. When one of these grains "pops" into existence, it is accelerated without dissipation for a time formula_5 before decaying back into the normal **state**. This has the effect of increasing the conductivity even before the system has condensed into the superconducting state. This increased conductivity above formula_6 is referred to as paraconductivity...
1794. ...d without dissipation for a time formula_5 before decaying back into the normal state. This has the effect of increasing the conductivity even before the system has condensed into the superconducting **state**. This increased conductivity above formula_6 is referred to as paraconductivity, or fluctuation conductivity, and was first correctly described by Lev G. Aslamazov and Anatoly Larkin. As the system i...
1795. ...formula_9. Eventually the system is cooled further, below the Kosterlitz-Thouless temperature formula_10, all of the free vortices become bound into vortex-antivortex pairs, and the systems attains a **state** with zero resistance. Cooling the system to formula_11 and turning on a magnetic field has certain effects. For very small fields (formula_12) the magnetic field is shielded from the interior of the...
1796. ...r, the energy cost to keep out the external field becomes too great, and the superconductor allows the field to penetrate in quantized fluxons. Now the superconductor has transitioned into the "mixed **state**", in which there is a superfluid along with vortices - which now have only one circulation. Increasing the field adds vortices to the system. Eventually the density of vortices becomes so large that...
1797. ...s do so without Bethe ansatz. The physics of the Heisenberg XXX model strongly depends on the sign of the coupling constant formula_3 and the dimension of the space. For positive formula_3 the ground **state** is always ferromagnetic. At negative formula_3 the ground state is antiferromagnetic in two and three dimensions. In one dimension the nature of correlations in the antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model...
1798. ...model strongly depends on the sign of the coupling constant formula_3 and the dimension of the space. For positive formula_3 the ground state is always ferromagnetic. At negative formula_3 the ground **state** is antiferromagnetic in two and three dimensions. In one dimension the nature of correlations in the antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model depends on the spin of the magnetic dipoles. If the spin is int...
1799. ...senberg model is the one-dimensional Ising model, where the transverse magnetic field is in the "x"-direction, and the interaction is only in the "z"-direction: At small "g" and large "g", the ground **state** degeneracy is different, which implies that there must be a quantum phase transition in between. It can be solved exactly for the critical point using the duality analysis. The duality transition of...
1800. ...a_79, the q-deformation of the affine Lie algebra of formula_80, as explained in the notes by . These appear through the transfer matrix, and the condition that the Bethe vectors are generated from a **state** formula_81 satisfying formula_82 corresponds to the solutions being part of a highest-weight representation of the extended symmetry algebras. Geomagnetic latitude Geomagnetic latitude, or magnetic l...
1801. ...creased electric field between the plates. The total energy formula_46 stored in a capacitor (expressed in joules) is equal to the total work done in establishing the electric field from an uncharged **state**. formula_47 where formula_48 is the charge stored in the capacitor, formula_16 is the voltage across the capacitor, and formula_50 is the capacitance. This potential energy will remain in the capacit...
1802. ...ion in the downstream tube. In power amplifiers this can cause the plates to glow red, or current limiting resistors to overheat, even fail. Similar considerations apply to component fabricated solid-**state** (transistor) amplifiers, but, owing to lower heat production and the use of modern polyester dielectric-barriers, this once-common problem has become relatively rare. Aluminum electrolytic capacitors...
1803. ...rs, this once-common problem has become relatively rare. Aluminum electrolytic capacitors are "conditioned" when manufactured by applying a voltage sufficient to initiate the proper internal chemical **state**. This state is maintained by regular use of the equipment. If a system using electrolytic capacitors is unused for a long period of time it can lose its conditioning. Sometimes they fail with a short...
1804. ...e-common problem has become relatively rare. Aluminum electrolytic capacitors are "conditioned" when manufactured by applying a voltage sufficient to initiate the proper internal chemical state. This **state** is maintained by regular use of the equipment. If a system using electrolytic capacitors is unused for a long period of time it can lose its conditioning. Sometimes they fail with a short circuit whe...
1805. ...ing. Sometimes they fail with a short circuit when next operated. All capacitors have varying lifespans, depending upon their construction, operational conditions, and environmental conditions. Solid-**state** ceramic capacitors generally have very long lives under normal use, which has little dependency on factors such as vibration or ambient temperature, but factors like humidity, mechanical stress, and...
1806. ...often performed on antique vacuum tube equipment over a period of thirty minutes by using a variable transformer to supply AC power. The use of this technique may be less satisfactory for some solid **state** equipment, which may be damaged by operation below its normal power range, requiring that the power supply first be isolated from the consuming circuits. Such remedies may not be applicable to modern...
1807. ...it indicating the multiplier. The EIA standard also defines a number of lowercase letters to specify a number of values not found in E24. The RKM code following IEC 60062 and BS 1852 is a notation to **state** a capacitor's value in a circuit diagram. It avoids using a decimal separator and replaces the decimal separator with the SI prefix symbol for the particular value (and the letter for weight 1). The...
1808. ...rcuit of the switch or relay. If the inductance is large enough, the energy may generate a spark, causing the contact points to oxidize, deteriorate, or sometimes weld together, or destroying a solid-**state** switch. A snubber capacitor across the newly opened circuit creates a path for this impulse to bypass the contact points, thereby preserving their life; these were commonly found in contact breaker i...
1809. ...been approved for any use by the US FDA. An FDA briefing document prepared in 2012 stated that "there is no regulation for therapeutic tDCS". Old Smokey Old Smokey is a euphemistic name given to the **state** prison electric chair in New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Tennessee. The term has sometimes been used to refer to electric chairs in general, and not the one used in any specific state. New Jersey's Old...
1810. ...name given to the state prison electric chair in New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Tennessee. The term has sometimes been used to refer to electric chairs in general, and not the one used in any specific **state**. New Jersey's Old Smokey is on display at the New Jersey State Police Museum. The chair's most notorious target was Richard Hauptmann, the man behind the Lindbergh kidnapping. The chair at the New Je...
1811. ...ennsylvania and Tennessee. The term has sometimes been used to refer to electric chairs in general, and not the one used in any specific state. New Jersey's Old Smokey is on display at the New Jersey **State** Police Museum. The chair's most notorious target was Richard Hauptmann, the man behind the Lindbergh kidnapping. The chair at the New Jersey State Prison in Trenton was used in the electrocution of 1...
1812. ...Jersey's Old Smokey is on display at the New Jersey State Police Museum. The chair's most notorious target was Richard Hauptmann, the man behind the Lindbergh kidnapping. The chair at the New Jersey **State** Prison in Trenton was used in the electrocution of 159 men for capital punishment in New Jersey, starting with Saverio DiGiovanni on December 11, 1907, and ending with Ralph Hudson on January 22, 196...
1813. ...s moved to storage and the chamber was converted to a visitor's center. In the 1980s, the chair was put on exhibit at the now-defunct Capital Punishment Museum, housed in a building at the New Jersey **State** Corrections Academy; after its curator died in 1995, the chair was sent to the New Jersey State Museum and later was transferred to the New Jersey State Police Museum in Ewing Township, where it rema...
1814. ...was put on exhibit at the now-defunct Capital Punishment Museum, housed in a building at the New Jersey State Corrections Academy; after its curator died in 1995, the chair was sent to the New Jersey **State** Museum and later was transferred to the New Jersey State Police Museum in Ewing Township, where it remains on display. New Jersey abandoned electrocution in favor of lethal injection in 1983, then ab...
1815. ...Museum, housed in a building at the New Jersey State Corrections Academy; after its curator died in 1995, the chair was sent to the New Jersey State Museum and later was transferred to the New Jersey **State** Police Museum in Ewing Township, where it remains on display. New Jersey abandoned electrocution in favor of lethal injection in 1983, then abolished capital punishment altogether in 2007. The Pennsy...
1816. ...ced into storage in 1971 and reassembled in 1985, but never was used again after Pennsylvania abolished electrocution in 1990 as an execution method, in favor of lethal injection. It is stored at the **State** Museum of Pennsylvania, and has never been displayed. The electric chair at the Tennessee State Prison in Nashville also was nicknamed "Old Smokey", and was used to execute 125 people for capital pun...
1817. ...olished electrocution in 1990 as an execution method, in favor of lethal injection. It is stored at the State Museum of Pennsylvania, and has never been displayed. The electric chair at the Tennessee **State** Prison in Nashville also was nicknamed "Old Smokey", and was used to execute 125 people for capital punishment in Tennessee between July 13, 1916 (Julius Morgan) and November 7, 1960 (William Tines)....
1818. ...ause destruction of equipment involved, fire, and injury not only to an electrical worker but also to bystanders. During the arc flash, electrical energy vaporizes the metal, which changes from solid **state** to gas vapor, expanding it with explosive force. For example, when copper vaporizes it suddenly expands by a factor of 67,000 in volume. In addition to the explosive blast, called the arc blast of su...
1819. ...helation therapy. It is likely that the medical care which he was given saved his life; despite similar biodistribution and toxicity to plutonium, the two radioactive elements have different solution-**state** chemistries. Americium is stable in the +3 oxidation state, while the +4 oxidation state of plutonium can form in the human body. The most common isotope americium-241 decays (half-life 432 years) to...
1820. ...he was given saved his life; despite similar biodistribution and toxicity to plutonium, the two radioactive elements have different solution-state chemistries. Americium is stable in the +3 oxidation **state**, while the +4 oxidation state of plutonium can form in the human body. The most common isotope americium-241 decays (half-life 432 years) to neptunium-237 which has a much longer half-life, so in the...
1821. ...espite similar biodistribution and toxicity to plutonium, the two radioactive elements have different solution-state chemistries. Americium is stable in the +3 oxidation state, while the +4 oxidation **state** of plutonium can form in the human body. The most common isotope americium-241 decays (half-life 432 years) to neptunium-237 which has a much longer half-life, so in the long term, the issues discuss...
1822. ...consider the 180 degree interaction of Mn-O-Mn in which the Mn "e" orbitals are directly interacting with the O "2p" orbitals, and one of the Mn ions has more electrons than the other. In the ground **state**, electrons on each Mn ion are aligned according to the Hund's rule: If O gives up its spin-up electron to Mn, its vacant orbital can then be filled by an electron from Mn. At the end of the process,...
1823. ...system network and synchronized from the common time source of a Global Positioning System (GPS) radio clock. Synchrophasor technology provides a tool for system operators and planners to measure the **state** of the electrical system (over many points)and manage power quality.  PMUs measure voltages and currents at principal intersecting locations (critical substations) on a power grid and can output accu...
1824. ...ons protocol. It also introduced two classifications of PMU, M — measurement & P — protection. M class is close in performance requirements to that in the original 2005 standard, primarily for steady **state** measurement. P class has relaxed some performance requirements and is intended to capture dynamic system behavior. An amendment to C37.118.1 was released in 2014. IEEE C37.118.1a-2014 modified PMU pe...
1825. ...he ferroelectric Curie temperature of approximately . Doped germanium telluride is a low temperature superconductor. Solid GeTe can transform between amorphous and crystalline states. The crystalline **state** has a low resistivity (semiconducting at room temperature) and the amorphous state has a high resistivity. The difference in resistivity can be up to six orders of magnitude depending on the film qua...
1826. ...a low temperature superconductor. Solid GeTe can transform between amorphous and crystalline states. The crystalline state has a low resistivity (semiconducting at room temperature) and the amorphous **state** has a high resistivity. The difference in resistivity can be up to six orders of magnitude depending on the film quality, GeTe compositions, and nucleation site formation. The drastic changes in the...
1827. ...applications. Although both solid states can exist at room temperatures, the transition requires a specific heating and cooling process known as the thermal actuation method. To achieve the amorphous **state** the solid is heated up beyond the melting temperature with a high current pulse in a short amount of time and rapidly quenched or cooled down. Crystallization happens when the GeTe is heated to a cry...
1828. ...r, such as in an LC-circuit, the energy levels are degenerate. This prohibits the formation of a two qubit computational space because any microwave radiation that is applied to manipulate the ground **state** and the first excited state to perform qubit operations would also excite the higher energy states. Josephson junctions are the only electronic element that are non-linear as well as non-dissipative...
1829. ...the energy levels are degenerate. This prohibits the formation of a two qubit computational space because any microwave radiation that is applied to manipulate the ground state and the first excited **state** to perform qubit operations would also excite the higher energy states. Josephson junctions are the only electronic element that are non-linear as well as non-dissipative at low temperatures . These...
1830. ...xample, by modifying their bias magnetic flux) controls the duration of the gate operation. Like all quantum bits, flux qubits require a suitably sensitive probe coupled to it in order to measure its **state** after a computation has been carried out. Such quantum probes should introduce as little back-action as possible onto the qubit during measurement. Ideally they should be decoupled during computation...
1831. ...gy, and were the first to conceive, propose and implement flux qubits as they are known today. The Delft read-out scheme is based on a SQUID loop that is inductively coupled to the qubit, the qubit's **state** influences the critical current of the SQUID. The critical current can then be read-out using ramped measurement currents through the SQUID. Recently the group has used the plasma frequency of the SQ...
1832. ...e resonant properties of a high quality tank circuit, which, like the Delft group is also inductively coupled to the qubit. In this scheme the qubit's magnetic susceptibility, which is defined by its **state**, changes the phase angle between the current and voltage when a small A.C. signal is passed into the tank circuit. Prof. Petrashov's group at Royal Holloway are using an Andreev interferometer probe...
1833. ...ductance properties of a normal metal. A length of normal metal is connected at either end to either side of the qubit using superconducting leads, the phase across the qubit, which is defined by its **state**, is translated into the normal metal, the resistance of which is then read-out using low noise resistance measurements. Dr. Jerger's group uses resonators that are coupled with the flux qubit. Each r...
1834. ...ements. Dr. Jerger's group uses resonators that are coupled with the flux qubit. Each resonator is dedicated to just one qubit, and all resonators can be measured with a single transmission line. The **state** of the flux qubit alters the resonant frequency of the resonator due to a dispersive shift that is picked up by the resonator from the coupling with the flux qubit. The resonant frequency is then mea...
1835. ...to a dispersive shift that is picked up by the resonator from the coupling with the flux qubit. The resonant frequency is then measured by the transmission line for each resonator in the circuit. The **state** of the flux qubit is then determined by the measured shift in the resonant frequency. Capacitance meter A capacitance meter is a piece of electronic test equipment used to measure capacitance, mainly...
1836. ...ce. Probes are connected to the oscilloscope with a cable matching the characteristic impedance of the oscilloscope input. Tube based active probes were used before the advent of high-frequency solid-**state** electronics, using a small vacuum tube as cathode follower amplifier. Active probes have several disadvantages which have kept them from replacing passive probes for all applications: Many active pro...
1837. ...iring a differential amplifier stage at or near the oscilloscope. (A very few early probes fitted the differential amplifier into a rather-bulky probe head using vacuum tubes.) With advances in solid-**state** electronics, it has become practical to put the differential amplifier directly within the probe head, greatly easing the requirements on the rest of the signal path (since it now becomes single-ende...
1838. ...riority list is reduced and these organs may, eventually, fail. Digestive disorders, male impotence, tiredness, sleepwalking, environmental temperature intolerance, are classic examples of a low-flow-**state**, resulting in reduced blood flow. SI variability and MAP variability are accomplished through activity of hemodynamic modulators. The conventional cardiovascular physiology terms for the hemodynamic...
1839. ...ogy and methodology in per-beat hemodynamics is to use the terms for actual hemodynamic modulating tools, which either the body utilizes or the clinician has in his toolbox to control the hemodynamic **state**: The preload and the Frank-Starling (mechanically)-induced level of contractility is modulated by variation of intravascular volume (volume expansion or volume reduction/diuresis). Pharmacological mo...
1840. ...ial current density, j, and associated azimuthal magnetic field, B. As the current flows through its own magnetic field, a pinch is generated with an inward radial force density of j x B. In a steady **state** with forces balancing: where ∇"p" is the magnetic pressure gradient, and "p" and "p" are the electron and ion pressures, respectively. Then using Maxwell's equation formula_16 and the ideal gas law f...
1841. ...uch amplifiers do not work as efficiently when terminated into an impedance greatly different than their specified output impedance. Maintaining constant impedance is less important In the case solid **state** electronics. In high frequency horns, the L Pad is seen by the crossover, not the amp. L pads may not necessarily use continuously variable rheostats, but instead a multi-position rotating selector s...
1842. ...ich limits their practical transmission distance to a few kilometers, not enough for long-distance communication. The electronic technologies needed in the millimeter wave band are also in an earlier **state** of development than those of the microwave band. More recently, microwaves have been used for wireless power transmission. Microwave radio relay is a technology widely used in the 1950s and 1960s for...
1843. ...Boston in 1947. The TDX was upgraded to the TD2 system, which used [the Morton tube, 416B and later 416C, manufactured by Western Electric] in the transmitters, and then later to TD3 that used solid-**state** electronics. Remarkable were the microwave relay links to West Berlin during the Cold War, which had to be built and operated due to the large distance between West Germany and Berlin at the edge of...
1844. ...-given, and he felt that they shouldn't take credit for any of his inventions. As a result, he failed to carry his ideas to commercial success. He died in Chicago on May 25, 1893. Energy gap In solid-**state** physics, an energy gap or band gap is an energy range in a solid where no electron states exist, i.e. an energy range where the density of states vanishes. Especially in condensed matter physics, an...
1845. ...tly in BCS theory. Here, the size of the energy gap indicates the energy gain for two electrons upon formation of a Cooper pair. If a conventional superconducting material is cooled from its metallic **state** (at higher temperatures) into the superconducting state, then the superconducting energy gap is absent above the critical temperature formula_1, it starts to open upon entering the superconducting st...
1846. ...cates the energy gain for two electrons upon formation of a Cooper pair. If a conventional superconducting material is cooled from its metallic state (at higher temperatures) into the superconducting **state**, then the superconducting energy gap is absent above the critical temperature formula_1, it starts to open upon entering the superconducting state at formula_1, and it grows upon further cooling. BCS...
1847. ...te (at higher temperatures) into the superconducting state, then the superconducting energy gap is absent above the critical temperature formula_1, it starts to open upon entering the superconducting **state** at formula_1, and it grows upon further cooling. BCS theory predicts that the size formula_3 of the superconducting energy gap for conventional superconductors at zero temperature scales with their c...
1848. ...ing many other charge-transfer complexes. Fast-ion conductor In materials science, fast ion conductors are solid conductors with highly mobile ions. These materials are important in the area of solid **state** ionics, and are also known as solid electrolytes and superionic conductors. These materials are useful in batteries and various sensors. Fast ion conductors are used primarily in solid oxide fuel cel...
1849. ...etween crystalline solids which possess a regular structure with immobile ions, and liquid electrolytes which have no regular structure and fully mobile ions. Solid electrolytes find use in all solid-**state** supercapacitors, batteries, and fuel cells, and in various kinds of chemical sensors. In solid electrolytes (glasses or crystals), the ionic conductivity σ can be any value, but it should be much lar...
1850. ...here σ > 0.25 Ω cm and σ ~10 Ω cm at 300 K. The Hall (drift) ionic mobility in RbAgI is about 2 cm/(V•s) at room temperatures. The σ – σ systematic diagram distinguishing the different types of solid-**state** ionic conductors is given in the figure. No clear examples have been described as yet, of fast ion conductors in the hypothetical advanced superionic conductors class (areas 7 and 8 in the classifica...
1851. ...negative-ion beam at fusion-relevant energies, the key collisional processes are: Underline indicates the fast particles, while subscripts "i", "j" of the cross-section formula_4 indicate the charge **state** of fast particle before and after collision. Cross-sections at 1 MeV are such that, once created, a fast positive ion cannot be converted into a fast neutral, and this is the cause of the limited ach...
1852. ...lection of facts "(a table showing the similarity, of properties of the diversely named electricities)" is, that electricity, whatever may be its source, is identical in its nature"." It is proper to **state**, however, that prior to Faraday's time the similarity of electricity derived from different sources was more than suspected. Thus, William Hyde Wollaston, wrote in 1801: ""This similarity in the mean...
1853. ...kable researches of Faraday, the "prince of experimentalists", on electrostatics and electrodynamics and the induction of currents. These were rather long in being brought from the crude experimental **state** to a compact system, expressing the real essence. Faraday was not a competent mathematician, but had he been one, he would have been greatly assisted in his researches, have saved himself much useles...
1854. ...e and ever-growing number of particles called hadrons. It seemed that such a large number of particles could not all be fundamental. Shortly after the end of the war in 1945, Bell Labs formed a Solid **State** Physics Group, led by William Shockley and chemist Stanley Morgan; other personnel including John Bardeen and Walter Brattain, physicist Gerald Pearson, chemist Robert Gibney, electronics expert Hilb...
1855. ...r personnel including John Bardeen and Walter Brattain, physicist Gerald Pearson, chemist Robert Gibney, electronics expert Hilbert Moore and several technicians. Their assignment was to seek a solid-**state** alternative to fragile glass vacuum tube amplifiers. Their first attempts were based on Shockley's ideas about using an external electrical field on a semiconductor to affect its conductivity. These...
1856. ...bottom quark (1977), the top quark (1995), tau neutrino (2000) and the Higgs boson (2012) have given credence to the Standard Model. There are a range of emerging energy technologies. By 2007, solid **state** micrometer-scale electric double-layer capacitors based on advanced superionic conductors had been for low-voltage electronics such as deep-sub-voltage nanoelectronics and related technologies (the 2...
1857. ...ombination of ferromagnetic exchange and the Dzyaloshinskii–Moriya interaction leads to helixes with relatively long periods. Since the crystal structure is noncentrosymetric even in the paramagnetic **state**, the magnetic transition to a helimagnetic state does not break inversion symmetry, and the direction of the spiral is locked to the crystal structure. On the other hand, helimagnetism in other mater...
1858. ...loshinskii–Moriya interaction leads to helixes with relatively long periods. Since the crystal structure is noncentrosymetric even in the paramagnetic state, the magnetic transition to a helimagnetic **state** does not break inversion symmetry, and the direction of the spiral is locked to the crystal structure. On the other hand, helimagnetism in other materials can also be based on frustrated magnetism or...
1859. ...y. Andreev reflection Andreev reflection, named after the Russian physicist Alexander F. Andreev, is a type of particle scattering which occurs at interfaces between a superconductor (S) and a normal **state** material (N). It is a charge-transfer process by which normal current in N is converted to supercurrent in S. Each Andreev reflection transfers a charge "2e" across the interface, avoiding the forbid...
1860. ...Saint-James reflection, as it was predicted independently by Saint-James and de Gennes and by Andreev in the early sixties.  The process involves an electron incident on the interface from the normal **state** material at energies less than the superconducting energy gap. The incident electron forms a Cooper pair in the superconductor with the retroreflection of a hole of opposite spin and velocity but equ...
1861. ...normal electron-electron or hole-hole scattering at the interface. Since the pair consists of an up and down spin electron, a second electron of opposite spin to the incident electron from the normal **state** forms the pair in the superconductor, and hence the retroreflected hole. Through time-reversal symmetry, the process with an incident electron will also work with an incident hole (and retroreflected...
1862. ...ncident electron will also work with an incident hole (and retroreflected electron). The process is highly spin-dependent – if only one spin band is occupied by the conduction electrons in the normal-**state** material ("i.e." it is fully spin-polarized), Andreev reflection will be inhibited due to inability to form a pair in the superconductor and impossibility of single-particle transmission. In a ferrom...
1863. ...ere spin-polarization exists or may be induced by a magnetic field, the strength of the Andreev reflection (and hence conductance of the junction) is a function of the spin-polarization in the normal **state**. The spin-dependence of Andreev reflection gives rise to the Point contact Andreev reflection technique, whereby a narrow superconducting tip (often niobium, antimony or lead) is placed into contact...
1864. ...the electron and hole is −π/2 plus the phase of the superconducting order parameter. Crossed Andreev reflection, also known as non-local Andreev reflection, occurs when two spatially separated normal **state** material electrodes form two separate junctions with a superconductor, with the junction separation of the order of the BCS superconducting coherence length of the material in question. In such a dev...
1865. ...ectrodes of differing coercivity. Crossed Andreev reflection occurs in competition with elastic cotunneling, the quantum mechanical tunneling of electrons between the normal leads via an intermediate **state** in the superconductor. This process conserves electron spin. As such, a detectable potential at one electrode on the application of current to the other may be masked by the competing elastic cotunne...
1866. ...reflection may occur at either interface, in conjunction with other normal electron scattering processes from the normal/superconductor interface. The process is of interest in the formation of solid-**state** quantum entanglement, via the formation of a spatially separated entangled electron-hole (Andreev) pair, with applications in spintronics and quantum computing. Anatoly Vlasov Anatoly Aleksandrovich...
1867. ...t prominent in the fields of statistical mechanics, kinetics, and especially in plasma physics. Anatoly Vlasov was born in Balashov, in the family of a steamfitter. In 1927 he entered into the Moscow **State** University (MSU) and graduated from the MSU in 1931. After the graduation Vlasov continued to work in the MSU, where he spent all his life, collaborating with Nobelists Pyotr Kapitsa, Lev Landau, and...
1868. ...uation Vlasov continued to work in the MSU, where he spent all his life, collaborating with Nobelists Pyotr Kapitsa, Lev Landau, and other leading physicists. He became a full Professor at the Moscow **State** University in 1944 and was the head of the theoretical physics department in the Faculty of Physics at Moscow State University from 1945 to 1953. He was a member of Communist Party of USSR since 1944...
1869. ...Lev Landau, and other leading physicists. He became a full Professor at the Moscow State University in 1944 and was the head of the theoretical physics department in the Faculty of Physics at Moscow **State** University from 1945 to 1953. He was a member of Communist Party of USSR since 1944 In 1970 he received the Lenin Prize. His main works are in optics, plasma physics, physics of crystals, theory of g...
1870. ...restored to the power station. Tesla, Inc installed the world's largest lithium ion battery pack for the government of South Australia in 2017; to help alleviate energy (electricity) blackouts in the **state**. Tesla met the guarantee by Elon Musk of installation in 100 days or it would be free. Mendel Stromm Professor Mendel Stromm is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Co...
1871. ...ke over New York City's electrical grid, but was stopped when Spider-Man fought his way into its core processor and uploaded a computer virus into it, putting both the A.I. and Mendel into a comatose **state**. The artificial intelligence took over Electro's body and tried to use his powers to create a horde of self spawning robots, but after the interference of Spider-Man the A.I. altered Spidey's spider...
1872. ...hat only the long-lived species can reach the catalyst surface and react, while short-lived radicals, ions and excited species decay in the first part of the reactor. As an example, the oxygen ground **state** atom O(3P) has a lifetime of about 14 μs in a dry air atmospheric pressure plasma. This means that only a small region of the catalyst is in contact with active radicals. In a such two-stage set-up,...
1873. ...resonant coherent excitation, occurs when heavy ions move in crystals under channeling conditions. V. Okorokov predicted this effect in 1965 and it was first observed by Sheldon Datz in 1978. Steady **state** (electronics) In electronics, steady state is an equilibrium condition of a circuit or network that occurs as the effects of transients are no longer important. Steady state is reached (attained) aft...
1874. ...heavy ions move in crystals under channeling conditions. V. Okorokov predicted this effect in 1965 and it was first observed by Sheldon Datz in 1978. Steady state (electronics) In electronics, steady **state** is an equilibrium condition of a circuit or network that occurs as the effects of transients are no longer important. Steady state is reached (attained) after transient (initial, oscillating or turbu...
1875. ...ldon Datz in 1978. Steady state (electronics) In electronics, steady state is an equilibrium condition of a circuit or network that occurs as the effects of transients are no longer important. Steady **state** is reached (attained) after transient (initial, oscillating or turbulent) state has subsided. During steady state, a system is in relative stability. Steady state determination is an important topic,...
1876. ...equilibrium condition of a circuit or network that occurs as the effects of transients are no longer important. Steady state is reached (attained) after transient (initial, oscillating or turbulent) **state** has subsided. During steady state, a system is in relative stability. Steady state determination is an important topic, because many design specifications of electronic systems are given in terms of...
1877. ...t or network that occurs as the effects of transients are no longer important. Steady state is reached (attained) after transient (initial, oscillating or turbulent) state has subsided. During steady **state**, a system is in relative stability. Steady state determination is an important topic, because many design specifications of electronic systems are given in terms of the steady-state characteristics....
1878. ...ents are no longer important. Steady state is reached (attained) after transient (initial, oscillating or turbulent) state has subsided. During steady state, a system is in relative stability. Steady **state** determination is an important topic, because many design specifications of electronic systems are given in terms of the steady-state characteristics. Periodic steady-state solution is also a prerequi...
1879. ...ed. During steady state, a system is in relative stability. Steady state determination is an important topic, because many design specifications of electronic systems are given in terms of the steady-**state** characteristics. Periodic steady-state solution is also a prerequisite for small signal dynamic modeling. Steady-state analysis is therefore an indispensable component of the design process. Steady s...
1880. ...relative stability. Steady state determination is an important topic, because many design specifications of electronic systems are given in terms of the steady-state characteristics. Periodic steady-**state** solution is also a prerequisite for small signal dynamic modeling. Steady-state analysis is therefore an indispensable component of the design process. Steady state calculation methods can be sorted...
1881. ...any design specifications of electronic systems are given in terms of the steady-state characteristics. Periodic steady-state solution is also a prerequisite for small signal dynamic modeling. Steady-**state** analysis is therefore an indispensable component of the design process. Steady state calculation methods can be sorted into time-domain algorithms (time domain sensitivities, shooting) and frequency-...
1882. ...e characteristics. Periodic steady-state solution is also a prerequisite for small signal dynamic modeling. Steady-state analysis is therefore an indispensable component of the design process. Steady **state** calculation methods can be sorted into time-domain algorithms (time domain sensitivities, shooting) and frequency-domain algorithms (harmonic balance) methods, are the best choice for most microwave...
1883. ...ers). Time domain methods can be further divided into one step methods (time domain sensitivities) and iterative methods (shooting methods). One step methods require derivatives to compute the steady **state**; whenever those are not readily available at hand, iterative methods come into focus. Frequency domain sensor Frequency domain (FD) sensor is an instrument developed for measuring soil moisture conte...
1884. ...f momentum eigenstates in the formula_25 direction and harmonic oscillator eigenstates formula_26 shifted by an amount formula_27 in the formula_28 direction: formula_29 where formula_30. In sum, the **state** of the electron is characterized by the quantum numbers, formula_23, formula_20 and formula_33. The derivation treated and "y" as asymmetric. However, by the symmetry of the system, there is no physi...
1885. ...level is just the ratio of fluxes formula_79. Zeeman splitting has a significant effect on the Landau levels because their energy scales are the same, formula_80. However, the Fermi energy and ground **state** energy stay roughly the same in a system with many filled levels, since pairs of split energy levels cancel each other out when summed. Moreover, the above derivation in the Landau gauge assumed an e...
1886. ...by formula_97 where "c" is the speed of light, the sign depends on the particle-antiparticle component and "ν" is a non-negative integer. Due to spin, all levels are degenerate except for the ground **state** at . The massless 2D case can be simulated in single-layer materials like graphene near the Dirac cones, where the eigenergies are given by  formula_98 where the speed of light has to be replaced wit...
1887. ...ation of the reactor, at low power, using a new control console, without completing all necessary safety evaluations for the replaced equipment. AFRRI is a fully equipped research facility capable of **state** of the art molecular, cellular, microbiology, genetic and biochemical research. Its four laboratories and one center are: In 2004, AFRRI was awarded the Joint Meritorious Unit Award for "exceptionall...
1888. ...antalum silicide (TaSi). and BeAu  The covalent superconductor SiC:B, silicon carbide heavily doped with boron, is also type-I. Depending on the demagnetization factor, one may obtain an intermediate **state**. This state, first described by Lev Landau, is a phase separation into macroscopic non-superconducting and superconducting domains forming a Husimi Q representation. This behavior is different from t...
1889. ...cide (TaSi). and BeAu  The covalent superconductor SiC:B, silicon carbide heavily doped with boron, is also type-I. Depending on the demagnetization factor, one may obtain an intermediate state. This **state**, first described by Lev Landau, is a phase separation into macroscopic non-superconducting and superconducting domains forming a Husimi Q representation. This behavior is different from type-II super...
1890. ...of into this expression yields formula_10 The boundary conditions thus give the following restrictions on the coefficients formula_11 In any one-dimensional attractive potential there will be a bound **state**. To find its energy, note that for , is imaginary, and the wave functions which were oscillating for positive energies in the calculation above are now exponentially increasing or decreasing function...
1891. ...the terms: . The wave function is then formula_12 From the boundary conditions and normalization conditions, it follows that formula_13 from which it follows that must be negative, that is, the bound **state** only exists for the well, and not for the barrier. The Fourier transform of this wave function is a Lorentzian function. The energy of the bound state is then formula_14 For positive energies, the pa...
1892. ...ollows that must be negative, that is, the bound state only exists for the well, and not for the barrier. The Fourier transform of this wave function is a Lorentzian function. The energy of the bound **state** is then formula_14 For positive energies, the particle is free to move in either half-space: or . It may be scattered at the delta-function potential. The quantum case can be studied in the following...
1893. ...m, the solutions are given by a "generalization" of the Lambert "W" function (see ). One of the most interesting cases is when "qR" ≤ 1, which results in formula_32. Thus, one has a non-trivial bound **state** solution with . For these specific parameters, there are many interesting properties that occur, one of which is the unusual effect that the transmission coefficient is unity at zero energy. Breaking...
1894. ...ene in their "Marvel Comics: 15 Most Powerful Enchanted Hammer Users (Who Aren’t Thor)" list. "Comic Book Resources" ranked Tarene 1st in their "Avengers: The 10 Most Powerful Recruits From The Fifty **State** Initiative" list, 9th in their "15 Craziest Versions Of Thor" list, and 19th in their "20 Strongest Versions Of Thor" list. An alternate version of Tarene appears in one alternate future world. She t...
1895. ...information can be reduced to a single vector, called the Jones vector, in the x-y plane. This vector, while arising from a purely classical treatment of polarization, can be interpreted as a quantum **state** vector. The connection with quantum mechanics is made in the article on photon polarization. The vector emerges from the plane-wave solution. The electric field solution can be rewritten in complex n...
1896. ...for this vector is the bra–ket notation of Dirac, which is normally used in a quantum context. The quantum notation is used here in anticipation of the interpretation of the Jones vector as a quantum **state** vector. The Jones vector has a dual given by formula_12 A Jones vector represents a specific wave with a specific phase, amplitude and state of polarization. When one is using a Jones vector simply t...
1897. ...ion of the interpretation of the Jones vector as a quantum state vector. The Jones vector has a dual given by formula_12 A Jones vector represents a specific wave with a specific phase, amplitude and **state** of polarization. When one is using a Jones vector simply to indicate a state of polarization, then it is customary for it to be normalized. That requires that the inner product of the vector with its...
1898. ...Jones vector has a dual given by formula_12 A Jones vector represents a specific wave with a specific phase, amplitude and state of polarization. When one is using a Jones vector simply to indicate a **state** of polarization, then it is customary for it to be normalized. That requires that the inner product of the vector with itself to be unity: formula_13 An arbitrary Jones vector can simply be scaled to...
1899. ...intensity (within a particular isotropic medium). Even given a normalized Jones vector, multiplication by a pure phase factor will result in a different normalized Jones vector representing the same **state** of polarization. In general, the wave is linearly polarized when the phase angles formula_14 are equal, formula_15 This represents a wave polarized at an angle formula_16 with respect to the x axis....
1900. ...t case the Jones vector can be written formula_17 The general case in which the electric field is not confined to one direction but rotates in the "x"-"y" plane is called elliptical polarization. The **state** vector is given by formula_18 In the special case of formula_19, this reduces to linear polarization. Circular polarization corresponds to the special cases of formula_20 with formula_21. The two cir...
1901. ...ng electrode's potential must depend on the concentration of the analyte in the gas or solution phase. The reference electrode is needed to provide a defined reference potential. Potentiometric solid **state** gas sensors have been generally classified into three broad groups. Gallium phosphate Gallium phosphate (GaPO or gallium orthophosphate) is a colorless trigonal crystal with a hardness of 5.5 on the...
1902. ...ies have different thresholds for the logic-high (V) and logic-low (V) circuit voltages. Some logic probes have an audible tone, of which vary across models. A model may 1) emit a tone for high logic **state** otherwise no tone, or 2) emit a higher frequency tone for a high logic state, lower frequency tone for a low logic state, and no tone for no connection or tri-state. An oscillating signal causes the...
1903. ...t voltages. Some logic probes have an audible tone, of which vary across models. A model may 1) emit a tone for high logic state otherwise no tone, or 2) emit a higher frequency tone for a high logic **state**, lower frequency tone for a low logic state, and no tone for no connection or tri-state. An oscillating signal causes the probe to alternate between high-state and low-state tones. The logic probe wa...
1904. ...e tone, of which vary across models. A model may 1) emit a tone for high logic state otherwise no tone, or 2) emit a higher frequency tone for a high logic state, lower frequency tone for a low logic **state**, and no tone for no connection or tri-state. An oscillating signal causes the probe to alternate between high-state and low-state tones. The logic probe was invented by Gary Gordon in 1968 while he w...
1905. ...may 1) emit a tone for high logic state otherwise no tone, or 2) emit a higher frequency tone for a high logic state, lower frequency tone for a low logic state, and no tone for no connection or tri-**state**. An oscillating signal causes the probe to alternate between high-state and low-state tones. The logic probe was invented by Gary Gordon in 1968 while he was employed by Hewlett-Packard. Magnetic dev...
1906. ...higher frequency tone for a high logic state, lower frequency tone for a low logic state, and no tone for no connection or tri-state. An oscillating signal causes the probe to alternate between high-**state** and low-state tones. The logic probe was invented by Gary Gordon in 1968 while he was employed by Hewlett-Packard. Magnetic developer Magnetic developer is a fluid which makes the magnetic informatio...
1907. ...ncy tone for a high logic state, lower frequency tone for a low logic state, and no tone for no connection or tri-state. An oscillating signal causes the probe to alternate between high-state and low-**state** tones. The logic probe was invented by Gary Gordon in 1968 while he was employed by Hewlett-Packard. Magnetic developer Magnetic developer is a fluid which makes the magnetic information written on m...
1908. ...addition, without further research an SPS demonstration or systems-engineering verification program would be a high-risk venture." In 1997, NASA conducted its "Fresh Look" study to examine the modern **state** of SBSP feasibility. In assessing "What has changed" since the DOE study, NASA asserted that the "US National Space Policy now calls for NASA to make significant investments in technology (not a part...
1909. ...reduction of any focusing mirrors) a 4 GW power station would weigh about 80,000 metric tons, all of which would, in current circumstances, be launched from the Earth. This is, however, far from the **state** of the art for flown spacecraft, which as of 2015 was 150 W/kg (6.7 kg/kW), and improving rapidly. Very lightweight designs could likely achieve 1 kg/kW, meaning 4,000 metric tons for the solar panel...
1910. ...The most typical design for energy transmission is via an RF antenna at below 10 GHz to a rectenna on the ground. Controversy exists between the benefits of Klystrons, Gyrotrons, Magnetrons and solid **state**. Alternate transmission approaches include: Materials and manufacturing: Typical designs make use of the developed industrial manufacturing system extant on Earth, and use Earth based materials both...
1911. ...current, the iron core of the transductor can be arranged to saturate at different levels and thus vary the amount of reactive power absorbed. Transductors were widely used before the advent of solid-**state** electronics but today have been largely replaced by power electronic devices such as the Static VAR compensator and STATCOM. A formerly common use for Transductors was in CRT displays, to correct a d...
1912. ...ted WDM, can refer to either equilibrium or non-equilibrium states of matter in a (loosely defined) regime of temperature and density between condensed matter and hot plasma. It can be defined as the **state** that is too dense to be described by weakly coupled plasma physics yet too hot to be described by condensed matter physics. In this state, the potential energy of the Coulomb interaction between elec...
1913. ...een condensed matter and hot plasma. It can be defined as the state that is too dense to be described by weakly coupled plasma physics yet too hot to be described by condensed matter physics. In this **state**, the potential energy of the Coulomb interaction between electrons and ions is on the same order of magnitude (or even significantly exceeds) their thermal energy, while the latter is comparable to t...
1914. ...pe II superconductor material with an infinite pinning force. In the external magnetic field it behaves like an ideal diamagnet if the field is switched on when the material is in the superconducting **state**, so-called "zero field cooled" (ZFC) regime. In the field cooled (FC) regime, the ideally hard superconductor screens perfectly the change of the magnetic field rather than the magnetic field itself....
1915. ...d (FC) regime, the ideally hard superconductor screens perfectly the change of the magnetic field rather than the magnetic field itself. Its magnetization behavior can be described by Bean's critical **state** model.  The ideally hard superconductor is a good approximation for the melt-textured high temperature superconductors (HTSC) used in large scale HTSC applications such as flywheels, HTSC bearings, H...
1916. ...ot equipped with the SSPTS, so it could only go on shorter length missions than the rest of the fleet. Pinning force Pinning force is a force acting on a pinned object from a pinning center. In solid **state** physics, this most often refers to the vortex pinning, the pinning of the magnetic vortices (magnetic flux quanta, Abrikosov vortices) by different kinds of the defects in a type II superconductor. I...
1917. ...mmetric, so is the KBF in which case curl(ℑ) ≠ 0. Such an asymmetric body force leads to ferrofluid motion across isotherms. Hot-carrier injection Hot carrier injection (HCI) is a phenomenon in solid-**state** electronic devices where an electron or a “hole” gains sufficient kinetic energy to overcome a potential barrier necessary to break an interface state. The term "hot" refers to the effective temperat...
1918. ...carrier injection (HCI) is a phenomenon in solid-state electronic devices where an electron or a “hole” gains sufficient kinetic energy to overcome a potential barrier necessary to break an interface **state**. The term "hot" refers to the effective temperature used to model carrier density, not to the overall temperature of the device. Since the charge carriers can become trapped in the gate dielectric of...
1919. ...ransistor, the switching characteristics of the transistor can be permanently changed. Hot-carrier injection is one of the mechanisms that adversely affects the reliability of semiconductors of solid-**state** devices. The term “hot carrier injection” usually refers to the effect in MOSFETs, where a carrier is injected from the conducting channel in the silicon substrate to the gate dielectric, which usual...
1920. ...nciple of hot carriers injection by deliberately injecting carriers across the gate oxide to charge the floating gate. This charge alters the MOS transistor threshold voltage to represent a logic '0' **state**. An uncharged floating gate represents a '1' state. Erasing the NOR Flash memory cell removes stored charge through the process of Fowler–Nordheim tunneling. Because of the damage to the oxide caused...
1921. ...jecting carriers across the gate oxide to charge the floating gate. This charge alters the MOS transistor threshold voltage to represent a logic '0' state. An uncharged floating gate represents a '1' **state**. Erasing the NOR Flash memory cell removes stored charge through the process of Fowler–Nordheim tunneling. Because of the damage to the oxide caused by normal NOR Flash operation, HCI damage is one o...
1922. ...perty of superconductors is that they expel magnetic fields; this is called the Meissner effect. If the magnetic field becomes sufficiently strong it will, in some cases, “quench” the superconductive **state** by inducing a phase transition. In other cases, however, it will be energetically favorable for the superconductor to form a lattice of quantum vortices, which carry quantized magnetic flux through t...
1923. ...tric field due to the phenomenon of electromagnetic induction. This leads to energy dissipation and causes the material to display a small amount of electrical resistance while in the superconducting **state**. The vortex states in ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic material are also important, mainly for information technology. They are exceptional, since in contrast to superfluids or superconducting mate...
1924. ...form a condensate. Since the centre of the lines, the vortex cores, are normal liquid or normal conductors, respectively, the condensation transforms the superfluid or superconductor into the normal **state**. The ensembles of vortex lines and their phase transitions can be described efficiently by a gauge theory. In 1949 Onsager analysed a toy model consisting of a neutral system of point vortices confin...
1925. ...as with BJTs. A SEPIC is said to be in continuous-conduction mode ("continuous mode") if the currents through inductors L1 and L2 never fall to zero during an operating cycle. During a SEPIC's steady-**state** operation, the average voltage across capacitor C1 ("V") is equal to the input voltage ("V"). Because capacitor C1 blocks direct current (DC), the average current through it ("I") is zero, making ind...
1926. ...increase the magnitude of the current in "I" and thus increase the energy stored in L2. I is supplied by C2. The easiest way to visualize this is to consider the bias voltages of the circuit in a DC **state**, then close S1. When switch S1 is turned off, the current "I" becomes the same as the current "I", since inductors do not allow instantaneous changes in current. The current "I" will continue in the...
1927. ...agrees to vouch for him only if he proved his intention pure with the rest of the world. The Black Marvel Family would later make an attempt to appeal to the public by revealing their normal ungodly **state** and restating their intentions. Initially successful, Osiris's membership with the Teen Titans is short-lived after an attack by Amanda Waller's Suicide Squad. When Persuader tortures Isis during the...
1928. ...regulated by the so called Central Electricity Authority Regulations (CEAR). In a typical electrical code some colour-coding of wires is mandatory. Many local rules and exceptions exist per country, **state**, or region. Older installations vary in colour codes, and colours may fade with insulation exposure to heat, light, and aging. From 1970 European countries started a process of harmonising their wiri...
1929. ...leading to a cycle of the character relapsing and vowing to "change". Mitch Carson is a S.H.I.E.L.D. security agent under Dum Dum Dugan and someone whom O'Grady looks up to. During the "Enemy of the **State**" story, when Wolverine attacks the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier, Carson orders O'Grady and his roommate Chris McCarthy to guard Hank Pym and the new Ant-Man suit. Pym walks out and they panic and knock P...
1930. ...rmula_53 as the electron charge. We may then make this replacement in the equation above. However, an important assumption from the microscopic theory of superconductivity is that the superconducting **state** of a system is the ground state, and according to a theorem of Bloch's, in such a state the canonical momentum p is zero. This leaves which is the London equation according to the second formulation...
1931. ...We may then make this replacement in the equation above. However, an important assumption from the microscopic theory of superconductivity is that the superconducting state of a system is the ground **state**, and according to a theorem of Bloch's, in such a state the canonical momentum p is zero. This leaves which is the London equation according to the second formulation above. Magnetocardiography Magne...
1932. .... However, an important assumption from the microscopic theory of superconductivity is that the superconducting state of a system is the ground state, and according to a theorem of Bloch's, in such a **state** the canonical momentum p is zero. This leaves which is the London equation according to the second formulation above. Magnetocardiography Magnetocardiography (MCG) is a technique to measure the magne...
1933. .... Simple rearrangement results in the "inverse Boltzmann formula", which expresses the free energy formula_7 as a function of formula_9: To construct a PMF, one then introduces a so-called "reference **state**" with a corresponding distribution formula_11 and partition function formula_12, and calculates the following free energy difference: The reference state typically results from a hypothetical system...
1934. ...F, one then introduces a so-called "reference state" with a corresponding distribution formula_11 and partition function formula_12, and calculates the following free energy difference: The reference **state** typically results from a hypothetical system in which the specific interactions between the amino acids are absent. The second term involving formula_5 and formula_12 can be ignored, as it is a const...
1935. ...oes not depend on the amino acid sequence. Intuitively, it is clear that a low value for formula_22 indicates that the set of distances in a structure is more likely in proteins than in the reference **state**. However, the physical meaning of these statistical PMFs has been widely disputed, since their introduction. The main issues are: In response to the issue regarding the physical validity, the first j...
1936. ...tion formula_28, which is given by: where formula_9 and formula_17 are the respective probabilities of finding two particles at a distance formula_2 from each other in the liquid and in the reference **state**. For liquids, the reference state is clearly defined; it corresponds to the ideal gas, consisting of non-interacting particles. The two-particle potential of mean force formula_33 is related to formu...
1937. ...: where formula_9 and formula_17 are the respective probabilities of finding two particles at a distance formula_2 from each other in the liquid and in the reference state. For liquids, the reference **state** is clearly defined; it corresponds to the ideal gas, consisting of non-interacting particles. The two-particle potential of mean force formula_33 is related to formula_28 by: According to the reversi...
1938. ...ials" nor "potentials of mean force," in the ordinary sense as used in the literature on liquids and solutions. Moreover, this analogy does not solve the issue of how to specify a suitable "reference **state**" for proteins. In the mid-2000s, authors started to combine multiple statistical potentials, derived from different structural features, into "composite scores". For that purpose, they used machine l...
1939. ...a_51. Obviously, the negative of the logarithm of the expression has the same functional form as the classic pairwise distance statistical PMFs, with the denominator playing the role of the reference **state**. This explanation has two shortcomings: it relies on the unfounded assumption the likelihood can be expressed as a product of pairwise probabilities, and it is purely "qualitative". Hamelryck and co-...
1940. ...is explanation is quantitive, and allows the generalization of statistical PMFs from pairwise distances to arbitrary coarse grained variables. It also  provides a rigorous definition of the reference **state**, which is implied by formula_52. Conventional applications of pairwise distance statistical PMFs usually lack two necessary features to make them fully rigorous: the use of a proper probability distr...
1941. ...tistical PMFs usually lack two necessary features to make them fully rigorous: the use of a proper probability distribution over pairwise distances in proteins, and the recognition that the reference **state** is rigorously defined by formula_52. Statistical potentials are used as energy functions in the assessment of an ensemble of structural models produced by homology modeling or protein threading. Many...
1942. ...sment of an ensemble of structural models produced by homology modeling or protein threading. Many differently parameterized statistical potentials have been shown to successfully identify the native **state** structure from an ensemble of decoy or non-native structures. Statistical potentials are not only used for protein structure prediction, but also for modelling the protein folding pathway. Pi Josephs...
1943. ...ated by a barrier (thin insulating tunnel barrier, normal metal, semiconductor, ferromagnet, etc.).  A Josephson junction is a Josephson junction in which the Josephson phase "φ" equals in the ground **state**, i.e. when no external current or magnetic field is applied. The supercurrent "I" through a Josephson junction is generally given by "I" = "I"sin("φ"), where φ is the phase difference of the supercon...
1944. ...rality, the discussion below refers to the interval 0 ≤ "φ" < 2. When no current ("I" = 0) exists through the Josephson junction, e.g. when the junction is disconnected, the junction is in the ground **state** and the Josephson phase across it is zero ("φ" = 0). The phase can also be "φ" = , also resulting in no current through the junction. It turns out that the state with "φ" =  is "unstable" and corresp...
1945. ...nected, the junction is in the ground state and the Josephson phase across it is zero ("φ" = 0). The phase can also be "φ" = , also resulting in no current through the junction. It turns out that the **state** with "φ" =  is "unstable" and corresponds to the Josephson energy maximum, while the state "φ" = 0 corresponds to the Josephson energy minimum and "is" a ground state. In certain cases, one may obtai...
1946. ...= 0). The phase can also be "φ" = , also resulting in no current through the junction. It turns out that the state with "φ" =  is "unstable" and corresponds to the Josephson energy maximum, while the **state** "φ" = 0 corresponds to the Josephson energy minimum and "is" a ground state. In certain cases, one may obtain a Josephson junction where the critical current is negative ("I" < 0). In this case, the...
1947. ...junction. It turns out that the state with "φ" =  is "unstable" and corresponds to the Josephson energy maximum, while the state "φ" = 0 corresponds to the Josephson energy minimum and "is" a ground **state**. In certain cases, one may obtain a Josephson junction where the critical current is negative ("I" < 0). In this case, the first Josephson relation becomes The ground state of such a Josephson juncti...
1948. ...minimum and "is" a ground state. In certain cases, one may obtain a Josephson junction where the critical current is negative ("I" < 0). In this case, the first Josephson relation becomes The ground **state** of such a Josephson junction is formula_2 and corresponds to the Josephson energy minimum, while the conventional state φ = 0 is unstable and corresponds to the Josephson energy maximum. Such a Josep...
1949. ...gative ("I" < 0). In this case, the first Josephson relation becomes The ground state of such a Josephson junction is formula_2 and corresponds to the Josephson energy minimum, while the conventional **state** φ = 0 is unstable and corresponds to the Josephson energy maximum. Such a Josephson junction with formula_2 in the ground state is called a  Josephson junction. Theoretically, the first time the poss...
1950. ...and corresponds to the Josephson energy minimum, while the conventional state φ = 0 is unstable and corresponds to the Josephson energy maximum. Such a Josephson junction with formula_2 in the ground **state** is called a  Josephson junction. Theoretically, the first time the possibility of creating a formula_4 Josephson junction was discussed by Bulaevskii "et al." , Curve tracer A curve tracer is a speci...
1951. ...then available could not do everything required in a curve tracer. The Tektronix model 575 curve tracer shown in the gallery was a typical early instrument. Nowadays, curve tracers are entirely solid **state** and are substantially automated to ease the workload of the operator, automatically capture data, and assure the safety of the curve tracer and the DUT. Recent developments in curve tracer systems no...
1952. ...ivist in the cause of increasing black enrollment and retention in engineering and technology. He was a founding member of the National Society of Black Engineers and part of the team that fought for **state** funding of engineering at Alabama A&M University. Bond came to Purdue University in 1957 to study electrical engineering on National Merit Scholarship and Purdue's Special Merit Scholarship. He descr...
1953. ...ing and Technology. At the time, the land-grant university was involved in the notorious Knight v. Alabama lawsuit, in which the plaintiff class, joined by the U.S. Justice Department argued that the **State** of Alabama's system of public university funding is a violation of equal rights. The case resulted in a 1995 decree that ordered Alabama to fund engineering at Alabama A&M. The ruling further ordered...
1954. ...o fund engineering at Alabama A&M. The ruling further ordered that whatever level of the engineering program that would be built up in nine years would constitute the required level of funding by the **state**. As dean, Bond played a pivotal role in meeting the nine-year challenge. A&M's efforts bore fruit in 1997, when it was able to offer the first engineering courses. In 2000 mechanical and electrical e...
1955. ...hloride ions are present. This cell is very famous: the Daniell cell. If the electrodes are connected, a spontaneous reaction takes place. Zinc is oxidized, and copper ions are reduced. Sometimes the **state** of each species into the cell is written. For example, in the zinc cell (shown above), we can write that zinc, silver and silver chloride are solids, while zinc cation and chloride anion are in aqueo...
1956. ...h was later renamed the Technical University of Denmark (DTU). In 1824, Ørsted made a significant contribution to chemistry by being the first person to successfully produce aluminium in its metallic **state**, albeit in a less-than-pure form. In 1808, Humphry Davy had predicted the existence of the metal which he gave the name of "alumium". However his attempts to isolate it using electrolysis processes w...
1957. ...ity coefficients formula_94 is formula_95 D&H use the Helmholtz and Gibbs free entropies formula_46 and formula_97 to express the effect of electrostatic forces in an electrolyte on its thermodynamic **state**. Specifically, they split most of the thermodynamic potentials into classical and electrostatic terms: formula_98 where D&H give the total differential of formula_46 as formula_105 where By the defin...
1958. ...ich are useful further on. As stated previously, the internal energy is divided into two parts: formula_110 where Similarly, the Helmholtz free entropy is also divided into two parts: formula_113 D&H **state**, without giving the logic, that formula_114 It would seem that, without some justification,formula_115 Without mentioning it specifically, D&H later give what might be the required (above) justificat...
1959. ...engine generator set at its rated power factor. In most cases this is 0.8 power factor. An electronic load bank tends to be a fully programmable, air- or water-cooled design used to simulate a solid **state** load and to provide constant power and current loading on circuits for precision testing. Where a diesel-electric locomotive is equipped for dynamic braking, the braking resistor may be used as a loa...
1960. ...e it possible to understand the microscopic origin of the Weiss field. The exchange interaction between localized spins favored a parallel (in ferromagnets) or an anti-parallel (in anti-ferromagnets) **state** of neighboring magnetic moments The reason a piece of magnetic material such as iron spontaneously divides into separate domains, rather than exist in a state with magnetization in the same direction...
1961. ...an anti-parallel (in anti-ferromagnets) state of neighboring magnetic moments The reason a piece of magnetic material such as iron spontaneously divides into separate domains, rather than exist in a **state** with magnetization in the same direction throughout the material, is to minimize its internal energy. A large region of ferromagnetic material with a constant magnetization throughout will create a l...
1962. ...arallel to their neighbors in domains, creating strong "local" magnetic fields, energy minimization results in a domain structure that minimizes the "large-scale" magnetic field. In its lowest energy **state**, the magnetization of neighboring domains point in different directions, confining the field lines to microscopic loops between neighboring domains within the material, so the combined fields cancel...
1963. ...e field lines to microscopic loops between neighboring domains within the material, so the combined fields cancel at a distance. Therefore, a bulk piece of ferromagnetic material in its lowest energy **state** has little or no external magnetic field. The material is said to be "unmagnetized". However, the domains can also exist in other configurations in which their magnetization mostly points in the same...
1964. ...itive load, the step response of the voltage input will cause the input capacitor to charge. The capacitor charging starts with an inrush current and ends with an exponential decay down to the steady **state** condition. When the magnitude of the inrush peak is very large compared to the maximum rating of the components, then component stress is to be expected. The current into a capacitor is known to be f...
1965. ...dT" dependency. While pre-charging, the system voltage will rise slowly and controllably with power-up current never exceeding the maximum allowed value. As the circuit voltage approaches near steady **state**, then the pre-charge function is complete. Normal operation of a pre-charge circuit is to terminate pre-charge mode when the circuit voltage is 90% or 95% of the operating voltage. Upon completion of...
1966. ...uch systems typically have "contactors" (a high-current relay) to disable the system during inactive periods and to act as an emergency disconnect should the motor current regulator fail in an active **state**. Without pre-charge the high voltage across the contactors and inrush current can cause a brief arc which will cause pitting of the contacts. Pre-charging the controller input capacitors (typically t...
1967. ...ler (FCC), is a device which limits the prospective fault current when a fault occurs (e.g. in a power transmission network) "without" complete disconnection. The term includes superconducting, solid-**state** and inductive devices. Electric power distribution systems include circuit breakers to disconnect power in case of a fault, but to maximize reliability, they wish to disconnect the smallest possible...
1968. ...chine's load behavior. Mechanical operating equipment is accelerated smoothly. This lengthens service life, improves operating behavior, and smooths work flows. Electrical soft starters can use solid **state** devices to control the current flow and therefore the voltage applied to the motor. They can be connected in series with the line voltage applied to the motor, or can be connected inside the delta (Δ...
1969. ...can be connected in series with the line voltage applied to the motor, or can be connected inside the delta (Δ) loop of a delta-connected motor, controlling the voltage applied to each winding. Solid **state** soft starters can control one or more phases of the voltage applied to the induction motor with the best results achieved by three-phase control. Soft starters controlled via two phases have the disa...
1970. ...lso used deuterium and tritium, a much easier fuel to fuse, because it has a higher nuclear cross section. While the WB-6 pulses were sub-millisecond, Bussard felt the physics should represent steady **state**. A last-minute test of WB-6 ended prematurely when the insulation on one of the hand-wound electromagnets burned through, destroying the device. With no more funding during 2006, the project was stal...
1971. ...ference. Convergent Scientific, Inc. (CSI) is an American company founded in December 2010 and based in Huntington Beach, California. They tested their first polywell design, the "Model 1," on steady-**state** operations from January to late summer 2012. The MaGrid was made of a unique diamond shaped hollow wire, into which an electric current and a liquid coolant flowed. They are making an effort to build...
1972. ...ional propagation, but the reflections need to be implemented iteratively which can lead to convergence issues. Plasma modeling Plasma modeling refers to solving equations of motion that describe the **state** of a plasma. It is generally coupled with Maxwell's equations for electromagnetic fields or Poisson's equation for electrostatic fields. There are several main types of plasma models: single particle...
1973. ...d from the population push and pull on this web of forces, this field. The mathematical treatment for this involves Lagrangian mathematics. Collisional-radiative modeling is used to calculate quantum **state** densities and the emission/absorption properties of a plasma. This plasma radiation physics is critical for the diagnosis and simulation of astrophysical and nuclear fusion plasma. It is one of the m...
1974. ...agnetically confined plasmas. Radu Balescu was involved in the European fusion programme for more than 30 years as a scientist and as the head of research unit of the ULB group in the Euratom-Belgian **state** Association. In 1970 he was awarded the Francqui Prize on Exact Sciences. In 2000 he received the Hannes Alfvén Prize. Gate dielectric A gate dielectric is a dielectric used between the gate and subs...
1975. ...Exact Sciences. In 2000 he received the Hannes Alfvén Prize. Gate dielectric A gate dielectric is a dielectric used between the gate and substrate of a field-effect transistor (such as a MOSFET). In **state**-of-the-art processes, the gate dielectric is subject to many constraints, including: The capacitance and thickness constraints are almost directly opposed to each other. For silicon-substrate FETs, t...
1976. ...are dispatchable sources that require hours to startup. The combined cycle power plants consist of few stages with varying startup times with more than 8 hours required to get to full power from cold **state**: Nuclear power plants have the longest startup times of few days for the cold startup (less than a week). A typical boiling water reactor goes through the following stages: The primary benefits of di...
1977. ...-36-8) is also closely related to or even identical with NiO(OH). Its layered structure resembles that of the brucite polymorph of nickel(II) hydroxide, but with half as many hydrogens. The oxidation **state** of nickel is 3+. It can be prepared by the reaction of nickel(II) hydroxide with aqueous potassium hydroxide and bromine as the oxidant: Nickel(III) oxides catalyze the oxidation of benzyl alcohol to...
1978. ...more. Junior derived his powers from Captain Marvel himself, while the other Marvels derived their powers from the wizard Shazam. Unlike Captain Marvel, Junior remained a teenager in his transformed **state**. A "Trials of Shazam!" maxi-series published from 2006 to 2008 featured Freddy Freeman undergoing six trials to prove himself worthy of succeeding Captain Marvel, who takes over the wizard Shazam's p...
1979. ...of his adventures, Freddy Freeman is depicted as a character to be pitied for his injury, reminiscent of Tiny Tim from Charles Dickens' "A Christmas Carol", until he transforms into his super-powered **state** (C.C. Beck described the character as resembling Tiny Tim as Freddy Freeman, and Peter Pan as Captain Marvel Jr.). Junior, Captain Marvel, and Mary Marvel began appearing together in "The Marvel Fami...
1980. ...ased superheroes to help stop the invading Kryptonians by using the magic lightning of Shazam. In a 2009 "Justice Society of America" story, the wizard Shazam returns from the dead, and, angry at the **state** of affairs, strips Billy and Mary Batson of their powers and banishes them from the Rock of Eternity upon stating that they have failed him. Shazam vows to come after Freddy for "stealing his name"....
1981. ...the direction of magnetization than when it flows perpendicular to the magnetization vector. This creates an asymmetric electric field perpendicular to the current, which depends on the magnetization **state** of the sensor. Exactly controlling the magnetization state is the key to the operation of the planar Hall sensor. From fabrication the magnetization is confined to one certain direction in zero appli...
1982. ...ular to the magnetization vector. This creates an asymmetric electric field perpendicular to the current, which depends on the magnetization state of the sensor. Exactly controlling the magnetization **state** is the key to the operation of the planar Hall sensor. From fabrication the magnetization is confined to one certain direction in zero applied field, and the application of a field perpendicular to t...
1983. ...ar Hall sensor. From fabrication the magnetization is confined to one certain direction in zero applied field, and the application of a field perpendicular to this direction changes the magnetization **state** in such a way that the electronic readout is linear with respect to the magnitude of the applied field. This is true for applied fields smaller than a fourth of the intrinsic effective anisotropy fie...
1984. ...mping from -200 V to -1000 V. Further characterization was done by the Lunar Atmosphere and Dust Environment Explorer orbiter in late 2013. The plasma sheet is a very dynamic structure, in a constant **state** of motion, so as the Moon orbits through the magnetotail the plasma sheet can sweep across it many times with encounters lasting anywhere from minutes to hours or even days. In the "Space Odyssey" se...
1985. ...nt stations. Shocks and discontinuities (magnetohydrodynamics) In magnetohydrodynamics (MHD), shocks and discontinuities are transition layers where properties of a plasma change from one equilibrium **state** to another. The relation between the plasma properties on both sides of a shock or a discontinuity can be obtained from the conservative form of the MHD equations, assuming conservation of mass, mome...
1986. ...is created by the interaction of external magnets and an electrical current flowing through the plasma. The lack of this large externally driven plasma current makes stellarators suitable for steady-**state** fusion power plants. However, due to non-axisymmetric nature of the fields, old stellarators have a combination of toroidal and helical modulation of the magnetic field lines, which leads to high tra...
1987. ...llarators". Computer-modeled odd-looking electromagnets will directly produce the needed magnetic field configuration. These devices combine the good confinement properties of tokamaks and the steady-**state** nature of conventional stellarators. The Helically Symmetric Experiment (HSX) at the University of Wisconsin-Madison is such a quasi-helically symmetric stellarator (helical axis of symmetry). The ma...
1988. ...l laboratories, both in the USA and abroad. Major research projects at present are listed below: Thermoelectric generator A thermoelectric generator (TEG), also called a Seebeck generator, is a solid **state** device that converts heat (driven by temperature differences) directly into electrical energy through a phenomenon called the "Seebeck effect" (a form of thermoelectric effect). Thermoelectric genera...
1989. ...highly doped semiconductors made from bismuth telluride (BiTe), lead telluride (PbTe), calcium manganese oxide (CaMnO), or combinations thereof, depending on application temperature. These are solid-**state** devices and unlike dynamos have no moving parts, with the occasional exception of a fan or pump to improve heat transfer. If the hot region is around 1273K and the ZT values of 3 - 4 are implemented,...
1990. ...features such as particles, wires or interfaces in bulk semiconductor materials. However, the manufacturing processes of nano-materials are still challenging. Thermoelectric generators are all-solid-**state** devices that do not require any fluids for fuel or cooling, making them non-orientation dependent allowing for use in zero-gravity or deep-sea applications. The solid-state design allows for operatio...
1991. ...c generators are all-solid-state devices that do not require any fluids for fuel or cooling, making them non-orientation dependent allowing for use in zero-gravity or deep-sea applications. The solid-**state** design allows for operation in severe environments. Thermoelectric generators have no moving parts which produce a more reliable device that does not require maintenance for long periods. The durabil...
1992. ...y, thermoelectric generators are used for low power remote applications or where bulkier but more efficient heat engines such as Stirling engines would not be possible. Unlike heat engines, the solid **state** electrical components typically used to perform thermal to electric energy conversion have no moving parts. The thermal to electric energy conversion can be performed using components that require no...
1993. ...high-frequency electrical noise and transients between the lines, or to ground. They therefore prevent equipment and machinery (including motors, inverters, and electronic ballasts, as well as solid-**state** relay snubbers and spark quenchers) from sending and receiving electromagnetic and radio frequency interference as well as transients in across-the-line (X capacitors) and line-to-ground (Y capacitor...
1994. ...electron's spin "g"-factor: a precision of better than one part in a trillion. (The digits in parentheses indicate the standard uncertainty in the last listed digits of the measurement.) The current **state**-of-the-art theoretical calculation of the anomalous magnetic dipole moment of the electron includes QED diagrams with up to four loops. Combining this with the experimental measurement of "g" yields...
1995. ...from the positronium decay rate. Positronium decays through the annihilation of the electron and the positron into two or more gamma-ray photons. The decay rate of the singlet ("para-positronium") S **state** yields and the decay rate of the triplet ("ortho-positronium") S state yields This last result is the only serious discrepancy among the numbers given here, but there is some evidence that uncalculat...
1996. ...lation of the electron and the positron into two or more gamma-ray photons. The decay rate of the singlet ("para-positronium") S state yields and the decay rate of the triplet ("ortho-positronium") S **state** yields This last result is the only serious discrepancy among the numbers given here, but there is some evidence that uncalculated higher-order quantum corrections give a large correction to the valu...
1997. ...etween two states of spatial separation formula_8 and energy separation "W" has the form: where α is the attenuation length for a hydrogen-like localised wave-function. This assumes that hopping to a **state** with a higher energy is the rate limiting process. We now define formula_10, the "range" between two states, so formula_11. The states may be regarded as points in a four-dimensional random array (th...
1998. ...s the average nearest-neighbour range. The problem is therefore to calculate this quantity. The first step is to obtain formula_15, the total number of states within a range formula_7 of some initial **state** at the Fermi level. For "d"-dimensions, and under particular assumptions this turns out to be where formula_18. The particular assumptions are simply that formula_14 is well less than the band-width...
1999. ...rns out to be where formula_18. The particular assumptions are simply that formula_14 is well less than the band-width and comfortably bigger than the interatomic spacing. Then the probability that a **state** with range formula_7 is the nearest neighbour in the four-dimensional space (or in general the ("d"+1)-dimensional space) is the nearest-neighbour distribution. For the "d"-dimensional case then This...
2000. ...set of Boolean variables each of which has a Boolean function (possibly different for each variable) assigned to it which takes inputs from a subset of those variables and output that determines the **state** of the variable it is assigned to. This set of functions in effect determines a topology (connectivity) on the set of variables, which then become nodes in a network. Usually, the dynamics of the sys...
2001. ...unctions in effect determines a topology (connectivity) on the set of variables, which then become nodes in a network. Usually, the dynamics of the system is taken as a discrete time series where the **state** of the entire network at time "t"+1 is determined by evaluating each variable's function on the state of the network at time "t". This may be done synchronously or asynchronously. Boolean networks ha...
2002. ...es in a network. Usually, the dynamics of the system is taken as a discrete time series where the state of the entire network at time "t"+1 is determined by evaluating each variable's function on the **state** of the network at time "t". This may be done synchronously or asynchronously. Boolean networks have been used in biology to model regulatory networks. Although Boolean networks are a crude simplifica...
2003. ...ic regulatory networks but their mathematical understanding only started in the 2000s. Since a Boolean network has only 2 possible states, a trajectory will sooner or later reach a previously visited **state**, and thus, since the dynamics are deterministic, the trajectory will fall into a steady state or cycle called an attractor (though in the broader field of dynamical systems a cycle is only an attract...
2004. ...Boolean network has only 2 possible states, a trajectory will sooner or later reach a previously visited state, and thus, since the dynamics are deterministic, the trajectory will fall into a steady **state** or cycle called an attractor (though in the broader field of dynamical systems a cycle is only an attractor if perturbations from it lead back to it). If the attractor has only a single state it is c...
2005. ...steady state or cycle called an attractor (though in the broader field of dynamical systems a cycle is only an attractor if perturbations from it lead back to it). If the attractor has only a single **state** it is called a "point attractor", and if the attractor consists of more than one state it is called a "cycle attractor". The set of states that lead to an attractor is called the "basin" of the attra...
2006. ...stems a cycle is only an attractor if perturbations from it lead back to it). If the attractor has only a single state it is called a "point attractor", and if the attractor consists of more than one **state** it is called a "cycle attractor". The set of states that lead to an attractor is called the "basin" of the attractor. States which occur only at the beginning of trajectories (no trajectories lead "t...
2007. ...hat the Hamming distance is small compared with the number of nodes (formula_2) in the network. For N-K-model the network is stable if formula_3, critical if formula_4, and unstable if formula_5. The **state** of a given node formula_6 is updated according to its truth table, whose outputs are randomly populated. formula_7 denotes the probability of assigning an off output to a given series of input signal...
2008. ...rlying graph topologies. Classical Boolean networks (sometimes called CRBN, i.e. Classic Random Boolean Network) are synchronously updated. Motivated by the fact that genes don't usually change their **state** simultaneously, different alternatives have been introduced. A common classification is the following: Delbrück scattering Delbrück scattering, the deflection of high-energy photons in the Coulomb fi...
2009. ...e capable of producing coherent-elastic photon scattering because the recoil momentum during absorption and emission of the photon is transferred to the total atom while the electrons remain in their **state** of negative energy. This process is the analog of atomic Rayleigh scattering with the only difference that in the latter case the electrons are bound in the electron cloud of the atom. The experiment...
2010. ...ering instead of phonon-electron scattering. This region of the Seebeck coefficient-versus-temperature function is highly variable under a magnetic field. Kittel, Charles (1996) Introduction to Solid **State** Physics, 7th Ed., John Wiley and Sons, Inc. Quinhydrone electrode The quinhydrone electrode may be used to measure the hydrogen ion concentration (pH) of a solution containing an acidic substance.  Q...
2011. ...st on the wave front which explains this strong electrostatic field on the front as we are now very close to the particle. Note that outside the propagation sphere, the electric field has its initial **state** (no connection with the event we observe). When the speed is very close to the speed of light, we consider that the electric field becomes almost flat in the transverse plane, a bit like a "pancake",...
2012. ...actor, different switching pattern could be used to vary the effective inductance connected, allow for more dynamic control. Arc valves continued to dominate power electronics until the rise of solid-**state** semiconductors in the mid 20th century. As semiconductors replaced vacuum tubes, the thyristor created the first modern FACTs devices in the Static VAR Compensator (SVC). Effectively working as a cir...
2013. ...IGBT began to match its power ratings. With the IGBT, the first voltage-sourced converters and STATCOMs began to enter the FACTs world. A prototype 1 MVAr STATCOM was described in a report by Empire **State** Electric Energy Research Corporation in 1987. The first production 100 MVAr STATCOM made by Westinghouse Electric was installed at the Tennessee Valley Authority Sullivan substation in 1995 but was q...
2014. ...atical isoperimetric problems, and interest in them seems to be steadily growing. They were the subject of an international conference at the University of California at Santa Barbara in 2003 and the **state** of the art as of that date can be seen in the proceedings of that conference, published by Birkhäuser Verlag. Spin-stabilized magnetic levitation Spin-stabilized magnetic levitation is a phenomenon o...
2015. ...ition metal ions. They can switch between high spin and low spin which leads to changes of magnetic, optical, mechanical properties and more. Dielectrophoresis (DEP) is used to perform molecular spin-**state** switching. It organizes nano-objects between the electrodes. DEP force aligns the SCO nanorods with the direction of electric field applied. Electromanipulation of spin crossover nanorods is a new fi...
2016. ...speed travel and the ability to survive in the vacuum of space were also possible. In Carol's Binary form, her physical power and energy manipulation levels are much more powerful than in her regular **state**, but she reached her upper limits and overexerted herself when she greatly helped to cleanse the Earth's Sun from being gradually destroyed by an antimatter infection. Tom Stewart of "Screen Rant" sa...
2017. ...scratch the oxide layer. The website for sound preservation hosted by the National Library of Canada classifies dirt in two classes: Foreign matter (fingerprints, dust) and alteration of the original **state** (chemical reactions caused due to grime and dirt deposited on the tape surface). In any event, the tapes must be properly cleaned. Recommended methods for removing dust on tapes include using a small...
2018. ...with the output signal acting as a clock signal. The counter is preset to some initial count value, and counts down at each cycle of the clock signal. When it reaches zero, the counter output changes **state** and the count value is reloaded. This circuit is straightforward to implement using flip-flops, and because it is digital in nature, is very easy to interface to other digital components or a micropr...
2019. ...eries of partially oxidized tetracyanoplatinate complexes linked by the platinum-platinum bonds on the top and bottom faces of the planar [Pt(CN)] anions. This salt forms infinite stacks in the solid **state** based on the overlap of the d orbitals. Krogmann's salt has a tetragonal crystal structure with a Pt-Pt distance of 2.880 angstroms, which is much shorter than the metal-metal bond distances in other...
2020. ...ices are shown in their normal conditions. An NC contact would be shown as normally closed, and an NO contact would appear as a normally open device. All contacts associated with a device will change **state** when the device is energized. Figure 1 shows a typical relay logic diagram. In this circuit, a STOP/START station is used to control two pilot lights. When the START button is pressed, the control re...
2021. ...ypical relay logic diagram. In this circuit, a STOP/START station is used to control two pilot lights. When the START button is pressed, the control relay energizes and its associated contacts change **state**. The green pilot light is now ON and the red lamp is OFF. When the STOP button is pressed, the contacts return to their resting state, the red pilot light is ON, and the green switches OFF. In many c...
2022. ...d, the control relay energizes and its associated contacts change state. The green pilot light is now ON and the red lamp is OFF. When the STOP button is pressed, the contacts return to their resting **state**, the red pilot light is ON, and the green switches OFF. In many cases, it is possible to design a relay logic diagram directly from the narrative description of a control event sequence. In general,...
2023. ...vators are another common application - large relay logic circuits were employed from the 1930s onward to replace the human elevator operator, but have been progressively superseded with modern solid-**state** controls in recent years. Relay logic is also used for controlling and automation purposes in electro-hydraulics and electro-pneumatics. Most relay logic diagrams are in "ladder logic" form. Systems...
2024. ...as 5-HT and norepinephrine, modulate the activity of dendritic L-type Calcium channels that allow a sustained, positive, inward current into the cell. This leads to a lasting depolarisation. In this **state**, the cell fires action potentials independent of synaptic input. The PICs can be turned off via the activation of high-frequency inhibitory input at which point the cell returns to a resting state. P...
2025. ...is state, the cell fires action potentials independent of synaptic input. The PICs can be turned off via the activation of high-frequency inhibitory input at which point the cell returns to a resting **state**. Periglomerular cells, inhibitory interneurons that surround and innervate olfactory glomeruli, have also been shown to exhibit plateau potentials. Plateau potentials are also seen in the cortical, a...
2026. ...al objects. The potential of charge with uniform speed on a straight line has inversion in a point that is in the recent position. The potential is not changed in the direction of movement. Transient **state** In systems theory, a system is said to be transient or in a transient state when a process variable or variables have been changed and the system has not yet reached a steady state. In electrical eng...
2027. ...s inversion in a point that is in the recent position. The potential is not changed in the direction of movement. Transient state In systems theory, a system is said to be transient or in a transient **state** when a process variable or variables have been changed and the system has not yet reached a steady state. In electrical engineering, the time taken for an electronic circuit to change from one steady...
2028. ...ovement. Transient state In systems theory, a system is said to be transient or in a transient state when a process variable or variables have been changed and the system has not yet reached a steady **state**. In electrical engineering, the time taken for an electronic circuit to change from one steady state to another steady state is called the transient time. When a chemical reactor is being brought int...
2029. ...when a process variable or variables have been changed and the system has not yet reached a steady state. In electrical engineering, the time taken for an electronic circuit to change from one steady **state** to another steady state is called the transient time. When a chemical reactor is being brought into operation, the concentrations, temperatures, species compositions, and reaction rates are changing...
2030. ...or variables have been changed and the system has not yet reached a steady state. In electrical engineering, the time taken for an electronic circuit to change from one steady state to another steady **state** is called the transient time. When a chemical reactor is being brought into operation, the concentrations, temperatures, species compositions, and reaction rates are changing with time until operatio...
2031. ...lectrical circuit containing a capacitor or inductor, the component draws out the resulting change in voltage or current, causing the system to take a substantial amount of time to reach a new steady **state**. This period of time is known as the transient state. A capacitor acts as a short circuit immediately after the switch is closed, increasing its impedance during the transient state until it acts as...
2032. ...the component draws out the resulting change in voltage or current, causing the system to take a substantial amount of time to reach a new steady state. This period of time is known as the transient **state**. A capacitor acts as a short circuit immediately after the switch is closed, increasing its impedance during the transient state until it acts as an open circuit in its steady state. An inductor is t...
2033. ...each a new steady state. This period of time is known as the transient state. A capacitor acts as a short circuit immediately after the switch is closed, increasing its impedance during the transient **state** until it acts as an open circuit in its steady state. An inductor is the opposite, behaving as an open circuit until reaching a short circuit steady state. Field magnet Field magnet refers to a magne...
2034. ...as the transient state. A capacitor acts as a short circuit immediately after the switch is closed, increasing its impedance during the transient state until it acts as an open circuit in its steady **state**. An inductor is the opposite, behaving as an open circuit until reaching a short circuit steady state. Field magnet Field magnet refers to a magnet used to produce a magnetic field in a device. It ma...
2035. ...ncreasing its impedance during the transient state until it acts as an open circuit in its steady state. An inductor is the opposite, behaving as an open circuit until reaching a short circuit steady **state**. Field magnet Field magnet refers to a magnet used to produce a magnetic field in a device. It may be a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. When the field magnet is an electromagnet, it is referred...
2036. ...d applications. Depolarizer A depolarizer or depolariser, in electrochemistry, according to an IUPAC definition, is a synonym of electroactive substance, i.e., a substance which changes its oxidation **state**, or partakes in a formation or breaking of chemical bonds, in a charge-transfer step of an electrochemical reaction. In the battery industry, the term "depolarizer" has been used to denote a substanc...
2037. ...d when the correct DC supply voltage is present. When voltage is removed, the resistance between the two end points and the (nominal) wiper are undefined. In an operational amplifier circuit, the off-**state** impedance of a real potentiometer can help stabilize the DC operating point of the circuit during the power-up stage. This may not be the case when a digital potentiometer is used. Both electro-mecha...
2038. ...ved from the locational marginal price (LMP) information from the independent system operators (ISOs) and emissions data from the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). LEEM was developed at Wayne **State** University as part of a project aimed at optimizing water transmission systems in Detroit, MI starting in 2010 and has since found a wider application as a load profile management tool that can help...
2039. ...her mass loss rate, resulting in a faster loss of momentum. As the rotation rate slows, so too does the angular deceleration. By this means, a star will gradually approach, but never quite reach, the **state** of zero rotation. A T Tauri star is a type of pre-main-sequence star that is being heated through gravitational contraction and has not yet begun to burn hydrogen at its core. They are variable stars...
2040. ...put. Brownouts can cause unexpected behavior in systems with digital control circuits. Reduced voltages can bring control signals below the threshold at which logic circuits can reliably detect which **state** is being represented. As the voltage returns to normal levels the logic can latch at an incorrect state; to the extent that even "can't happen" states become possible. The seriousness of this effect...
2041. ...can bring control signals below the threshold at which logic circuits can reliably detect which state is being represented. As the voltage returns to normal levels the logic can latch at an incorrect **state**; to the extent that even "can't happen" states become possible. The seriousness of this effect and whether steps need to be taken by the designer to prevent it depends on the nature of the equipment...
2042. ...veral neurobiological models on the primary process which mediates the magnetic input have been proposed: In the radical pair mechanism photopigments absorb a photon, which elevates it to the singlet **state**. They form singlet radical pairs with antiparallel spin, which, by singlet–triplet interconversion, may turn into triplet pairs with parallel spin. Because the magnetic field alters the transition be...
2043. ...singlet radical pairs with antiparallel spin, which, by singlet–triplet interconversion, may turn into triplet pairs with parallel spin. Because the magnetic field alters the transition between spin **state** the amount of triplets depends on how the photopigment is aligned within the magnetic field. Cryptochromes, a class of photopigments known from plants and animals appear to be the receptor molecules....
2044. ...as pressure and gravity, an element of magnetized fluid also feels the Lorentz force formula_1 where formula_2 is the current density and formula_3 is the magnetic field vector. If the fluid is in a **state** of differential rotation about a fixed origin, this Lorentz force can be surprisingly disruptive, even if the magnetic field is very weak. In particular, if the angular velocity of rotation formula_4...
2045. ...fferential rotation profile is stable or not in the presence of an applied magnetic field. A claimed detection of the MRI in a spherical shell experiment (Sisan et al., 2004), in which the underlying **state** was itself turbulent, awaits confirmation at the time of this writing (2009). A magnetic instability that bears some similarity to the MRI can be excited if both vertical and azimuthal magnetic field...
2046. ...firmation at the time of this writing (2009). A magnetic instability that bears some similarity to the MRI can be excited if both vertical and azimuthal magnetic fields are present in the undisturbed **state** (Hollerbach and Rüdiger, 2005). This is sometimes referred to as the "helical-MRI," (Liu et al., 2006) though its precise relation to the MRI described above has yet to be fully elucidated. Because i...
2047. ...lity is easier to excite in the laboratory, and there are indications that it may have been found (Stefani et al., 2006). The detection of the classical MRI in a hydrodynamically quiescent background **state** has yet to be achieved in the laboratory, however.  The spring-mass analogue of the standard MRI has been demonstrated in rotating Taylor–Couette / Keplerian-like flow (Hung et al. 2019).  Self-focus...
2048. ...ts is sometimes mistakenly attributed to Brian Josephson's 1962 work, yet the effect was known long before his publication and was understood as the proximity effect. Electrons in the superconducting **state** of a superconductor are ordered in a very different way than in a normal metal, i.e. they are paired into Cooper pairs. Furthermore, electrons in a material cannot be said to have a definitive positi...
2049. ...in a normal metal, i.e. they are paired into Cooper pairs. Furthermore, electrons in a material cannot be said to have a definitive position because of the momentum-position complementarity. In solid **state** physics one generally chooses a momentum space basis, and all electron states are filled with electrons until the Fermi surface in a metal, or until the gap edge energy in the superconductor. Because...
2050. ...i surface). If the superconductor and normal metal are brought together, the electron order in the one system cannot infinitely abruptly change into the other order at the border. Instead, the paired **state** in the superconducting layer is carried over to the normal metal, where the pairing is destroyed by scattering events, causing the Cooper pairs to lose their coherence. For very clean metals, such as...
2051. ...nterface. In S/N and S/I multilayers at low temperatures, the long penetration depths and coherence lengths of the Cooper pairs will allow the S layers to maintain a mutual, three-dimensional quantum **state**. As temperature is increased, communication between the S layers is destroyed resulting in a crossover to two-dimensional behavior. The anisotropic behavior of S/N, S/I and S/S' bilayers and multilay...
2052. ...alue of streaming current observed in a capillary is usually related to the zeta potential through the relation: The conduction current, which is equal in magnitude to the streaming current at steady **state**, is: At steady state, the streaming potential built up across the flow system is given by: Symbols: The equation above is usually referred to as the Helmholtz–Smoluchowski equation. The above equatio...
2053. ...rent observed in a capillary is usually related to the zeta potential through the relation: The conduction current, which is equal in magnitude to the streaming current at steady state, is: At steady **state**, the streaming potential built up across the flow system is given by: Symbols: The equation above is usually referred to as the Helmholtz–Smoluchowski equation. The above equations assume that: Criti...
2054. ...o the magnetic susceptibility,  Early theoretical work concentrated on explaining the trend observed as the impurity was varied across the transition metal group. Based on the idea of a virtual bound **state**, Anderson proposed a model that was successful in explaining the formation of a localized magnetic moment from a magnetic impurity. Amplitude adjusting The Amplitude adjusting (also referred to as Am...
2055. ...geothermal. eGRID data is presented as an Excel workbook with data worksheets and a table of contents. The eGRID workbook contains data at the unit, generator, and plant levels and aggregated data by **state**, power control area, eGRID subregion, NERC region, and U.S. The workbook also includes a worksheet that displays the grid gross loss (%). Additional documentation is also provided with each eGRID rel...
2056. ...G Accounting and Reporting Guidance accompanied this order and recommended using eGRID non-baseload emission rates to estimate the Scope 2 (indirect) emission reductions from renewable energy. Steady **state** visually evoked potential In neurology and neuroscience research, steady state visually evoked potentials (SSVEPs) are signals that are natural responses to visual stimulation at specific frequencies...
2057. ...g eGRID non-baseload emission rates to estimate the Scope 2 (indirect) emission reductions from renewable energy. Steady state visually evoked potential In neurology and neuroscience research, steady **state** visually evoked potentials (SSVEPs) are signals that are natural responses to visual stimulation at specific frequencies. When the retina is excited by a visual stimulus ranging from 3.5 Hz to 75 Hz,...
2058. ...urning while the diesel engine restarts. The flywheel is an effective way of governing the Flywheel Energy Storage System (FESS) for wind power smoothing. It stores in the range of 89-93% of the mean **state** of charge which means that as the blades on the flywheel turn, between 89-93% of the energy is stored. A turbine is a set of blades that are forced to turn by an external energy source. When the blad...
2059. ...a small amount of gold. Many other atoms, e.g. iron or nickel, have similar effect. In practical applications, the electronic band structure of a semiconductor is typically found in a non-equilibrium **state**. Therefore, processes that tend towards thermal equilibrium, namely mechanisms of carrier recombination, always play a role. Additionally, semiconductors used in devices are very rarely pure semicond...
2060. ...ctor region. As a result of this, the charge carriers do not have a high probability of staying in the base region, which is their preferable region of occupation when recombining into a lower-energy **state**. For other modes of operation, like that of fast switching, a high recombination rate (and thus a short carrier lifetime) is desirable. The desired mode of operation, and the associated properties of...
2061. ...cting the disc and rotor. The strength of the chains depends on the strength of the magnetic field. If there is not a magnetic field being applied to the powder, then powder is free floating. In this **state** the clutch is able to spin freely without any engagement of the input shaft to the output shaft. Magnetic particle clutches have made equipment control easier while also prolonging life of machine co...
2062. ...ich the shielding effects and the chemical shifts are unusual. The bisazo compound (E) shows that the designated proton {H} can appear at different chemical shifts depending on the photoisomerization **state** of the azo groups. The "trans" isomer holds proton {H} far from the cone of the benzene ring thus the magnetic anisotropy is not present. While the "cis" form holds proton {H} in the vicinity of the...
2063. ...nipulating positrons, and spectroscopy techniques have enabled studies of Ps–Ps interactions. In 2012, Cassidy et al. were able to produce the excited molecular positronium formula_1 angular momentum **state**. Outage management system An outage management system (OMS) is a computer system used by operators of electric distribution systems to assist in restoration of power. Major functions usually found in...
2064. ...propagation of radio waves through the Earth's atmosphere. Historically, the subject played a significant role in the development of nonlinear dynamics. Quantum spin Hall effect The quantum spin Hall **state** is a state of matter proposed to exist in special, two-dimensional semiconductors that have a quantized spin-Hall conductance and a vanishing charge-Hall conductance. The quantum spin Hall state of m...
2065. ...of radio waves through the Earth's atmosphere. Historically, the subject played a significant role in the development of nonlinear dynamics. Quantum spin Hall effect The quantum spin Hall state is a **state** of matter proposed to exist in special, two-dimensional semiconductors that have a quantized spin-Hall conductance and a vanishing charge-Hall conductance. The quantum spin Hall state of matter is th...
2066. ...Hall state is a state of matter proposed to exist in special, two-dimensional semiconductors that have a quantized spin-Hall conductance and a vanishing charge-Hall conductance. The quantum spin Hall **state** of matter is the cousin of the integer quantum Hall state, and that does not require the application of a large magnetic field. The quantum spin Hall state does not break charge conservation symmetry...
2067. ...al, two-dimensional semiconductors that have a quantized spin-Hall conductance and a vanishing charge-Hall conductance. The quantum spin Hall state of matter is the cousin of the integer quantum Hall **state**, and that does not require the application of a large magnetic field. The quantum spin Hall state does not break charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry (in order to hav...
2068. ...rge-Hall conductance. The quantum spin Hall state of matter is the cousin of the integer quantum Hall state, and that does not require the application of a large magnetic field. The quantum spin Hall **state** does not break charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry (in order to have well defined Hall conductances).  The first proposal for the existence of a quantum spin Hall st...
2069. ...te does not break charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry (in order to have well defined Hall conductances).  The first proposal for the existence of a quantum spin Hall **state** was developed by Charles Kane and Gene Mele who adapted an earlier model for graphene by F. Duncan M. Haldane which exhibits an integer quantum Hall effect. The Kane and Mele model is two copies of t...
2070. ...tems, however, are far from the idealized picture presented above in which spin-up and spin-down electrons are not coupled. A very important achievement was the realization that the quantum spin Hall **state** remains to be non-trivial even after the introduction of spin-up spin-down scattering, which destroys the quantum spin Hall effect. In a separate paper, Kane and Mele introduced a topological formula...
2071. ...er the introduction of spin-up spin-down scattering, which destroys the quantum spin Hall effect. In a separate paper, Kane and Mele introduced a topological formula_4 invariant which characterizes a **state** as trivial or non-trivial band insulator (regardless if the state exhibits or does not exhibit a quantum spin Hall effect). Further stability studies of the edge liquid through which conduction takes...
2072. ...s the quantum spin Hall effect. In a separate paper, Kane and Mele introduced a topological formula_4 invariant which characterizes a state as trivial or non-trivial band insulator (regardless if the **state** exhibits or does not exhibit a quantum spin Hall effect). Further stability studies of the edge liquid through which conduction takes place in the quantum spin Hall state proved, both analytically an...
2073. ...insulator (regardless if the state exhibits or does not exhibit a quantum spin Hall effect). Further stability studies of the edge liquid through which conduction takes place in the quantum spin Hall **state** proved, both analytically and numerically that the non-trivial state is robust to both interactions and extra spin-orbit coupling terms that mix spin-up and spin-down electrons. Such a non-trivial st...
2074. ...ntum spin Hall effect). Further stability studies of the edge liquid through which conduction takes place in the quantum spin Hall state proved, both analytically and numerically that the non-trivial **state** is robust to both interactions and extra spin-orbit coupling terms that mix spin-up and spin-down electrons. Such a non-trivial state (exhibiting or not exhibiting a quantum spin Hall effect) is call...
2075. ...te proved, both analytically and numerically that the non-trivial state is robust to both interactions and extra spin-orbit coupling terms that mix spin-up and spin-down electrons. Such a non-trivial **state** (exhibiting or not exhibiting a quantum spin Hall effect) is called a topological insulator, which is an example of symmetry-protected topological order protected by charge conservation symmetry and...
2076. ...) is called a topological insulator, which is an example of symmetry-protected topological order protected by charge conservation symmetry and time reversal symmetry. (Note that the quantum spin Hall **state** is also a symmetry-protected topological state protected by charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry. We do not need time reversal symmetry to protect quantum spin Hall s...
2077. ...n example of symmetry-protected topological order protected by charge conservation symmetry and time reversal symmetry. (Note that the quantum spin Hall state is also a symmetry-protected topological **state** protected by charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry. We do not need time reversal symmetry to protect quantum spin Hall state. Topological insulator and quantum spin Ha...
2078. ...e is also a symmetry-protected topological state protected by charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry. We do not need time reversal symmetry to protect quantum spin Hall **state**. Topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different symmetry-protected topological states. So topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different states of matter.) Since gra...
2079. ...otected by charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry. We do not need time reversal symmetry to protect quantum spin Hall state. Topological insulator and quantum spin Hall **state** are different symmetry-protected topological states. So topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different states of matter.) Since graphene has extremely weak spin-orbit coupling, it is...
2080. ...rsal symmetry to protect quantum spin Hall state. Topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different symmetry-protected topological states. So topological insulator and quantum spin Hall **state** are different states of matter.) Since graphene has extremely weak spin-orbit coupling, it is very unlikely to support a quantum spin Hall state at temperatures achievable with today's technologies....
2081. ...states. So topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different states of matter.) Since graphene has extremely weak spin-orbit coupling, it is very unlikely to support a quantum spin Hall **state** at temperatures achievable with today's technologies. Two-dimensional topological insulators (also known as the quantum spin Hall insulators) with one-dimensional helical edge states were predicted i...
2082. ...ulk-gap. As such, when the Fermi level resides in the bulk gap, the conduction is dominated by the edge channels that cross the gap. The two-terminal conductance is formula_6 in the quantum spin Hall **state** and zero in the normal insulating state. As the conduction is dominated by the edge channels, the value of the conductance should be insensitive to how wide the sample is. A magnetic field should des...
2083. ...esides in the bulk gap, the conduction is dominated by the edge channels that cross the gap. The two-terminal conductance is formula_6 in the quantum spin Hall state and zero in the normal insulating **state**. As the conduction is dominated by the edge channels, the value of the conductance should be insensitive to how wide the sample is. A magnetic field should destroy the quantum spin Hall state by brea...
2084. ...ulating state. As the conduction is dominated by the edge channels, the value of the conductance should be insensitive to how wide the sample is. A magnetic field should destroy the quantum spin Hall **state** by breaking time-reversal invariance and allowing spin-up spin-down electron scattering processes at the edge. All these predictions have been experimentally verified in an experiment performed in th...
2085. ..., in which two chemical species change only in their charge, with an electron jumping. For redox reactions without making or breaking bonds, Marcus theory takes the place of Henry Eyring's transition **state** theory which was derived for reactions with structural changes. Marcus received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1992 for this theory. There are detailed descriptions of the interfacial DL in many boo...
2086. ...Electrochemical Society The Electrochemical Society is a learned society (professional association) based in the United States that supports scientific inquiry in the field of electrochemistry solid-**state** science and related technology. The Society membership comprises more than 8,000 scientists and engineers in over 85 countries at all degree levels and in all fields of electrochemistry, solid-state...
2087. ...-state science and related technology. The Society membership comprises more than 8,000 scientists and engineers in over 85 countries at all degree levels and in all fields of electrochemistry, solid-**state** science and related technologies. Additional support is provided by institutional members including corporations and laboratories.  ECS is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization.  The Society publishes...
2088. ...1(c)(3) non-profit organization.  The Society publishes numerous journals including the "Journal of The Electrochemical Society" (the oldest peer-reviewed journal in its field), the "Journal of Solid **State** Science and Technology", "ECS Meeting Abstracts", "ECS Transactions", and "ECS Interface". The Society sponsors the ECS Monographs Series. These distinguished monographs, published by John Wiley & So...
2089. ...d publication are now preserved as an archive. These archived publications are available through the Digital Library.  ECS Monographs provide accounts on specific topics in electrochemistry and solid-**state** science and technology. Since the 1940s, ECS and publishers have cooperated to publish titles in these fields.  JES is the flagship journal of The Electrochemical Society. Published continuously from...
2090. ...these fields.  JES is the flagship journal of The Electrochemical Society. Published continuously from 1902 to the present, JES is one of the most highly-cited journals in electrochemistry and solid-**state** science and technology. JSS is a peer-reviewed journal covering fundamental and applied areas of solid-state science and technology, including experimental and theoretical aspects of the chemistry an...
2091. ...to the present, JES is one of the most highly-cited journals in electrochemistry and solid-state science and technology. JSS is a peer-reviewed journal covering fundamental and applied areas of solid-**state** science and technology, including experimental and theoretical aspects of the chemistry and physics of materials and devices. "The Electrochemical Society Interface" is a publication for those in the...
2092. ...hnology, including experimental and theoretical aspects of the chemistry and physics of materials and devices. "The Electrochemical Society Interface" is a publication for those in the field of solid-**state** and electrochemical science and technology. Published quarterly, this four-color magazine contains technical articles about the latest developments in the field and presents news and information abou...
2093. ...n the field. "ECS Meeting Abstracts" are freely available to all visitors to the ECS Digital Library. The society recognizes members for outstanding technical achievement in electrochemical and solid-**state** science and technology at various career levels, and recognizes exceptional service to the Society, through the ECS Honors & Awards Program—the international awards, medals, and prizes administered b...
2094. ...hemical or corrosion science." ECS honors members with the designation, "Fellow of The Electrochemical Society" for having made significant accomplishments to the fields of electrochemistry and solid **state** science and technology, and to the Society. The "Vittorio de Nora Award" was established in 1971 to recognize distinguished contributions to the field of electrochemical engineering and technology. T...
2095. ...CS theory. Possible pairing mechanisms for cuprate superconductivity continue to be the subject of considerable debate and further research. Similarities between the low-temperature antiferromagnetic **state** in undoped materials and the low-temperature superconducting state that emerges upon doping, primarily the "d" orbital state of the Cu ions, suggest that electron-phonon coupling is less relevant in...
2096. ...y continue to be the subject of considerable debate and further research. Similarities between the low-temperature antiferromagnetic state in undoped materials and the low-temperature superconducting **state** that emerges upon doping, primarily the "d" orbital state of the Cu ions, suggest that electron-phonon coupling is less relevant in cuprates. Recent work on the Fermi surface has shown that nesting o...
2097. ...rther research. Similarities between the low-temperature antiferromagnetic state in undoped materials and the low-temperature superconducting state that emerges upon doping, primarily the "d" orbital **state** of the Cu ions, suggest that electron-phonon coupling is less relevant in cuprates. Recent work on the Fermi surface has shown that nesting occurs at four points in the antiferromagnetic Brillouin zo...
2098. ...ld ironing. Various studies are being conducted to fully implement a viable, controllable and monitored method of powering the most important arm of modern-day logistics, the merchant ships. The U.S. **State** of California is requiring a percentage of ships calling there to use shore power by 2014. The Port of Oakland is implementing a High Voltage Shore Connection (HVSC) at 6,600 volts. The first Hapag-L...
2099. ...the electrostatic interactions of systems (e.g. crystals). This method is generally more computationally efficient than the Ewald summation. It was proposed by Dieter Wolf. Ionic conductivity (solid **state**) Ionic conductivity (denoted by ) is a measure of a substance's tendency towards ionic conduction. Ionic conduction is the movement of ions. The phenomenon is observed in solids and solutions. Ionic...
2100. ...ncreasing static operating voltage of computer components to allow operation at higher speed (overclocking). MOSFET-based digital circuits operate using voltages at circuit nodes to represent logical **state**. The voltage at these nodes switches between a high voltage and a low voltage during normal operation—when the inputs to a logic gate transition, the transistors making up that gate may toggle the ga...
2101. ...ches between a high voltage and a low voltage during normal operation—when the inputs to a logic gate transition, the transistors making up that gate may toggle the gate's output. Toggling a MOSFET's **state** requires changing its gate voltage from below the transistor's threshold voltage to above it (or from above it to below it). However, changing the gate's voltage requires charging or discharging the...
2102. ...either full nodes or half-nodes rests with the foundry and not the integrated circuit designer. Electromagnetic absorption by water The absorption of electromagnetic radiation by water depends on the **state** of the water. The absorption in the gas phase occurs in three regions of the spectrum. Rotational transitions are responsible for absorption in the microwave and far-infrared, vibrational transitions...
2103. ...fine structure. Electronic transitions occur in the vacuum ultraviolet regions. Its weak absorption in the visible spectrum results in the pale blue color of water. The water molecule, in the gaseous **state**, has three types of transition that can give rise to absorption of electromagnetic radiation: In reality, vibrations of molecules in the gaseous state are accompanied by rotational transitions, givin...
2104. ...lor of water. The water molecule, in the gaseous state, has three types of transition that can give rise to absorption of electromagnetic radiation: In reality, vibrations of molecules in the gaseous **state** are accompanied by rotational transitions, giving rise to a vibration-rotation spectrum. Furthermore, vibrational overtones and combination bands occur in the near-infrared region. The HITRAN spectro...
2105. ...er-specific absorbing wavelengths. By the top of the troposphere, about 12 km above sea level, most water vapor condenses to liquid water or ice as it releases its heat of vapourization. Once changed **state**, liquid water and ice fall away to lower altitudes. This will be balanced by incoming water vapour rising via convection currents. Liquid water and ice emit radiation at a higher rate than water vapo...
2106. ...ations include KAgI, NHAgI, KCsAgI, RbCsAgI, CsAgBrI, CsAgClBrI, CsAgClI, RbCuClI and KCuI RbAgI AdSIC displays peculiar features of crystal structure and dynamics of mobile ions. Recently, all solid **state** micrometre-sized supercapacitors based on AdSICs (nanoionic supercapacitors) had been recognized as critical electron component of future sub-voltage and deep-sub-voltage nanoelectronics and related...
2107. ...critical electron component of future sub-voltage and deep-sub-voltage nanoelectronics and related technologies (22 nm technological node of CMOS and beyond). Researchers also developed an all-solid-**state** battery employing RbAgI superionic conductor. Plasma Sources Science and Technology Plasma Sources Science and Technology is an international journal dedicated solely to non-fusion aspects of plasma...
2108. ...cville, New York. HVDC had previously been achieved by series-connected direct current generators and motors (the Thury system) although this suffered from serious reliability issues. The first solid-**state** metal diode suitable for general power uses was developed by Ernst Presser at TeKaDe in 1928. It consisted of a layer of selenium applied on an aluminum plate. In 1957, a General Electric research gr...
2109. ...57, a General Electric research group developed the first thyristor suitable for use in power applications, starting a revolution in power electronics. In that same year, Siemens demonstrated a solid-**state** rectifier, but it was not until the early 1970s that solid-state devices became the standard in HVDC, when GE emerged as one of the top suppliers of thyristor-based HVDC.  In 1979, a European consort...
2110. ...or suitable for use in power applications, starting a revolution in power electronics. In that same year, Siemens demonstrated a solid-state rectifier, but it was not until the early 1970s that solid-**state** devices became the standard in HVDC, when GE emerged as one of the top suppliers of thyristor-based HVDC.  In 1979, a European consortium including Siemens, Brown Boveri & Cie and AEG realized the re...
2111. ...l to install turbines that produce higher voltages than would be used by most appliances, so the ability to easily transform voltages means this mismatch between voltages can be easily managed. Solid-**state** devices, which are products of the semiconductor revolution, make it possible to transform DC power to different voltages, build brushless DC machines and convert between AC and DC power. Nevertheles...
2112. ...s of the semiconductor revolution, make it possible to transform DC power to different voltages, build brushless DC machines and convert between AC and DC power. Nevertheless, devices utilising solid-**state** technology are often more expensive than their traditional counterparts, so AC power remains in widespread use. All power systems have one or more sources of power. For some power systems, the source...
2113. ...ements for maintenance. The first supervisory control systems implemented consisted of a panel of lamps and switches at a central console near the controlled plant. The lamps provided feedback on the **state** of the plant (the data acquisition function) and the switches allowed adjustments to the plant to be made (the supervisory control function). Today, SCADA systems are much more sophisticated and, due...
2114. ...n motors, aerospace, military equipment, and high-temperature environments. Burns temperature The Burns temperature, "T", is the temperature where a ferroelectric material, previously in paraelectric **state**, starts to present randomly polarized nanoregions, that are polar precursor clusters. This behaviour is typical of several, but not all, ferroelectric materials, and was observed in lead titanate (Pb...
2115. ...re also ruled out since they can easily be absorbed in the normalization condition. We then normalize the wave function, yielding a result where formula_26. The normalized wave function is The ground **state** energy of the system is formula_27. Like the particle in a box, there exists nodes in the excited states of the system where both formula_28 and formula_29 are both 0, which means that the probabilit...
2116. ...ly develop only during trains of multiple action potentials. During single action potentials, transient depolarization of the membrane opens more voltage-gated K channels than are open in the resting **state**, many of which do not close immediately when the membrane returns to its normal resting voltage. This can lead to an "undershoot" of the membrane potential to values that are more polarized ("hyperpo...
2117. ...and slow AHPs are not yet well understood, but may also involve M current and HCN channels for medium AHPs, and ion-dependent currents and/or ionic pumps for slow AHPs. The afterhyperpolarized (sAHP) **state** can be followed by an afterdepolarized state (which is not to be confused with the cardiac afterdepolarization) and can thus set the phase of the subthreshold oscillation of the membrane potential, a...
2118. ...t may also involve M current and HCN channels for medium AHPs, and ion-dependent currents and/or ionic pumps for slow AHPs. The afterhyperpolarized (sAHP) state can be followed by an afterdepolarized **state** (which is not to be confused with the cardiac afterdepolarization) and can thus set the phase of the subthreshold oscillation of the membrane potential, as reported for the stellate cells of the ento...
2119. ...nces by some researchers and companies in low-cost thermoelectric materials have resulted in significant commercial promise for ATEGs, most notably the low-cost production of tetrahedrite by Michigan **State** University and its commercialization by US-based Alphabet Energy with General Motors. Like any new component on an automobile, the use of an ATEG presents new engineering problems to consider, as wel...
2120. ...tcomes. One method of formation is through alkali metal hydrides reacting with positrons. Molecules with dipole moments greater than 1.625 debye are predicted to attract and hold positrons in a bound **state**. Crawford's model predicts this positron capture. In the case of lithium hydride, sodium hydride and potassium hydride molecules, this adduct decomposes and positronium hydride and the alkali positiv...
2121. ...to telescoping models. Because the fiberglass provides electrical insulation, the hot stick allows utility workers to perform operations on power lines safely without de-energizing them or while the **state** of the power line is not yet known. This is essential because certain operations (such as opening or closing combination fuse/switches) must occasionally be performed on an energized line. Additional...
2122. ...This is essential because certain operations (such as opening or closing combination fuse/switches) must occasionally be performed on an energized line. Additionally, after a fault occurs, the exact **state** of a line may not be certain; in this case, for reasons of crew safety, the utility workers must treat the line as though it were energized until it can be proven that it is not and safety ground cab...
2123. ...allic bonding, with all atoms essentially bonded to all nearest neighbors in the crystal lattice. Thus, critical temperatures at which point these classical magnets cross over to the ordered magnetic **state** tend to be high, since interactions between spin centers is strong. Molecule-based magnets, however, have spin bearing units on molecular entities, often with highly directional bonding. In some case...
2124. ...lature differs between these snakes and crotalines. The purpose of the vasculature, in addition to providing oxygen to the receptor terminals, is to rapidly cool the receptors to their thermo-neutral **state** after being heated by thermal radiation from a stimulus. Were it not for this vasculature, the receptor would remain in a warm state after being exposed to a warm stimulus, and would present the anim...
2125. ...erminals, is to rapidly cool the receptors to their thermo-neutral state after being heated by thermal radiation from a stimulus. Were it not for this vasculature, the receptor would remain in a warm **state** after being exposed to a warm stimulus, and would present the animal with afterimages even after the stimulus was removed.  In all cases, the facial pit is innervated by the trigeminal nerve. In crot...
2126. ...uickly and precisely warm a given ion channel and trigger a nerve impulse, as well as the vascularization of the pit membrane in order to rapidly cool the ion channel back to its original temperature **state**. While the molecular precursors of this mechanism are found in other snakes, the protein is both expressed to a much lower degree and much less sensitive to heat. Infrared sensing snakes use pit orga...
2127. ...good description of the charge order transition with the on-site and nearest neighbor Coulomb repulsion U and V. It emerged that V is a crucial parameter and important for developing the charge order **state**. Further model calculations try to take the temperature and an interchain interaction into account.  The extended Hubbard model for a single chain including inter-site and on-site interaction V and U...
2128. ...y it will be distinct between different dimensional organic conductors. They possess a huge variety of ground states, for instance, charge ordering, spin-Peierls, spin-density wave, antiferromagnetic **state**, superconductivity, charge-density wave to name only some of them. The model system of one-dimensional conductors is the Bechgaard-Fabre salts family, (TMTTF)X and (TMTSF)X, where in the latter one s...
2129. ...ion temperature T by increasing the pressure. According to the phase diagram of that family, an increasing pressure applied to the TMTTF compounds can be understood as a shift from the semiconducting **state** (at room temperature) to a higher dimensional and metallic state as you can find for TMTSF compounds without a charge order state.  A dimensional crossover can be induced not only by applying pressur...
2130. ...ase diagram of that family, an increasing pressure applied to the TMTTF compounds can be understood as a shift from the semiconducting state (at room temperature) to a higher dimensional and metallic **state** as you can find for TMTSF compounds without a charge order state.  A dimensional crossover can be induced not only by applying pressure, but also be substituting the donor molecules by other ones. Fr...
2131. ...TMTTF compounds can be understood as a shift from the semiconducting state (at room temperature) to a higher dimensional and metallic state as you can find for TMTSF compounds without a charge order **state**.  A dimensional crossover can be induced not only by applying pressure, but also be substituting the donor molecules by other ones. From a historical point of view, the main aim was to synthesize an...
2132. ...so reported for ZrZn in 2001, but later reports question these findings. These materials exhibit superconductivity in proximity to a magnetic quantum critical point. The nature of the superconducting **state** in ferromagnetic superconductors is currently under debate. Early investigations studied the coexistence of conventional "s"-wave superconductivity with itinerant ferromagnetism. However, the scenari...
2133. ...that a magnetic field is detrimental for the existence of spin-singlet Cooper pairs. A viable mean-field Hamiltonian for modelling itinerant ferromagnetism coexisting with a non-unitary spin-triplet **state** may after diagonalization be written as IEC 61400-25 International standard IEC 61400-25 (Communications for monitoring and control of wind power plants, TC 88) provides uniform information exchange...
2134. ...agnetic structure The term magnetic structure of a material pertains to the ordered arrangement of magnetic spins, typically within an ordered crystallographic lattice. Its study is a branch of solid-**state** physics. Most solid materials are non-magnetic, that is, they do not display a magnetic structure. Due to the Pauli exclusion principle, each state is occupied by electrons of opposing spins, so that...
2135. ...allographic lattice. Its study is a branch of solid-state physics. Most solid materials are non-magnetic, that is, they do not display a magnetic structure. Due to the Pauli exclusion principle, each **state** is occupied by electrons of opposing spins, so that the charge density is compensated everywhere and the spin degree of freedom is trivial. Still, such materials typically do show a weak magnetic beh...
2136. ...ic behaviour, e.g. due to diamagnetism or Pauli paramagnetism. The more interesting case is when the material's electron spontaneously break above-mentioned symmetry. For ferromagnetism in the ground **state**, there is a common spin quantization axis and a global excess of electrons of a given spin quantum number, there are more electrons pointing in one direction than in the other, giving a macroscopic m...
2137. ...se an intermediate case: here the magnetization is globally uncompensated as in ferromagnetism, but the local magnetization points in different directions. The above discussion pertains to the ground **state** structure. Of course, finite temperatures lead to excitations of the spin configuration. Here two extreme points of view can be contrasted: in the Stoner picture of magnetism (also called itinerant m...
2138. ...pon charged particles that are being bathed in thermal radiation. Laughlin wavefunction In condensed matter physics, the Laughlin wavefunction is an ansatz, proposed by Robert Laughlin for the ground **state** of a two-dimensional electron gas placed in a uniform background magnetic field in the presence of a uniform jellium background when the filling factor of the lowest Landau level is formula_1 where f...
2139. ...of the electrons would lie in the LLL. Turning on the interactions, we can make the approximation that all of the electrons lie in the LLL. If formula_6 is the single particle wavefunction of the LLL **state** with the lowest orbital angular momenta, then the Laughlin ansatz for the multiparticle wavefunction is where position is denoted by in (Gaussian units) and formula_10 and formula_11 are coordinates...
2140. ...the particle. In order for the wavefunction to describe fermions, n must be an odd integer. This forces the wavefunction to be antisymmetric under particle interchange. The angular momentum for this **state** is formula_16. Consider formula_17 above: resultant formula_18 is a trial wavefunction; it is not exact, but qualitatively, it reproduces many features of the exact solution and quantitatively, it ha...
2141. ...esultant formula_18 is a trial wavefunction; it is not exact, but qualitatively, it reproduces many features of the exact solution and quantitatively, it has very high  overlaps with the exact ground **state** for small systems. Assuming Coulomb repulsion between any two electrons, that  ground state formula_19 can be determined using exact diagonalisation and the overlaps have been calculated to be close...
2142. ...es many features of the exact solution and quantitatively, it has very high  overlaps with the exact ground state for small systems. Assuming Coulomb repulsion between any two electrons, that  ground **state** formula_19 can be determined using exact diagonalisation and the overlaps have been calculated to be close to one. Moreover, with short-range interaction (Haldane pseudopotentials for formula_20 set...
2143. ...ts, there are islands or domains of atoms that are all coordinated in a certain direction; this spontaneous positioning is often called the "easy" direction, indicating that this is the lowest energy **state** for these atoms. In order to study magnetocrystalline anisotropy, energy (usually in the form of an electric current) is applied to the domain, which causes the crystals to deflect from the "easy" to...
2144. ...density can be measured as the 'net flux', by algebraic summation of two oppositely sensed scalar readings in the known direction, perpendicular to the layers. At a given point in space, in a steady-**state** field, the vector flux density, a radiometric quantity, is equal to the time-averaged Poynting vector, an electromagnetic field quantity. Within the vector approach to the definition, however, there...
2145. ...ikes or vegetation contacting a power line, and many utilities use reclosers to automatically restore power quickly after a transient fault has cleared. MAIFI is specific to the area ( power utility, **state**, region, county, power line, etc. ) because of the many variables that affect the measure: high/low lightning, number & type of trees, high/low winds, etc. Therefore, comparing MAIFI of one power uti...
2146. ...example): This approach differs from the approach described by Rockwood in the treatment of the electron, i.e. whether it is placed in the gas phase or the metal. The electron can also be in another **state**, that of a solvated electron in solution, as studied by Alexander Frumkin and B. Damaskin and others. The basis for determination of the absolute electrode potential under the Trasatti definition is...
2147. ...ent in the numerical value depends on the choice of ambient temperature and standard states, and is the result of the near-cancellation of certain terms in the expressions. For example, if a standard **state** of one atmosphere ideal gas is chosen for the electron gas then the cancellation of terms occurs at a temperature of 296 K, and the two definitions give an equal numerical result. At 298.15 K a near-...
2148. ...ge, "at most" one or two unit cells or mean-free-paths (this displacement is sometimes called the "anisotropy distance"). This is required because if an electron is excited into a mobile, delocalized **state**, and then it scatters a few times, then its direction is now randomized and it will naturally start following the drift-diffusion equation. However, in the bulk photovoltaic effect, the desired net e...
2149. ...motion is "opposite" the direction predicted by the drift-diffusion equation. For example, it might be the case that when an electron absorbs a photon, it is disproportionately likely to wind up in a **state** where it is moving leftward. And perhaps each time a photon excites an electron, the electron moves leftward a bit and then immediately relaxes into ("gets stuck in") an immobile state—until it absor...
2150. ...o wind up in a state where it is moving leftward. And perhaps each time a photon excites an electron, the electron moves leftward a bit and then immediately relaxes into ("gets stuck in") an immobile **state**—until it absorbs another photon and the cycle repeats. In this situation, a leftward electron current is possible "despite" an electric field pushing electrons in the opposite direction. However, whe...
2151. ...tward electron current is possible "despite" an electric field pushing electrons in the opposite direction. However, when a photon excites an electron, it does "not" quickly relax back to an immobile **state**, but instead keeps moving around the crystal and scattering randomly, then the electron will eventually "forget" that it was moving left, and it will wind up being pulled rightward by the electric fi...
2152. ...wo bulk metals under consideration, but rather is determined by work function differences between the metals' surfaces. Just like the work function, the Volta potential depends sensitively on surface **state**, contamination, and so on. The Volta potential can be significant (of order 1 volt) but it cannot be measured directly by an ordinary voltmeter. A voltmeter does not measure vacuum electrostatic pote...
2153. ...ic density of states at the gap edges in doped cavities and such peaks being broadened by the rf current. Later the similar phenomenon was observed with nitrogen doping and which has been the current **state**-of-art cavity preparation for high performance. One of the main reasons for using SRF cavities in particle accelerators is that their large apertures result in low beam impedance and higher threshold...
2154. .... For the straightforward case of a storage ring with repetitive particle bunches spaced by time interval "T" and a bunch length much shorter than the wavelength of a given mode, the long term steady **state** wakefield voltage presented to the beam by the mode is given by where: As an example calculation, let the phase shift "δ=0", which would be close to the case for the TM mode by design and unfortunate...
2155. ...trolysis. The Faraday-efficiency effect is the observation of anomalous excess heat due to a reduction in the Faraday efficiency. From 1991-1993 a group of investigators, headed by Zvi Shkedi, in the **state** of Massachusetts, USA, built well-insulated cells and calorimeters which included the capability to measure the actual Faraday efficiency in real-time during the experiments. The cells were of the li...
2156. ...htning, and its position such that, located almost on the meridian of the mouth of the lake, it directs the navigators as a lighthouse." The phenomenon is depicted on the flag and coat of arms of the **state** of Zulia, which also contains Lake Maracaibo, and is mentioned in the state's anthem. The phenomenon has been known for centuries as the "Lighthouse of Maracaibo", since it is visible for miles aroun...
2157. ...uth of the lake, it directs the navigators as a lighthouse." The phenomenon is depicted on the flag and coat of arms of the state of Zulia, which also contains Lake Maracaibo, and is mentioned in the **state**'s anthem. The phenomenon has been known for centuries as the "Lighthouse of Maracaibo", since it is visible for miles around Lake Maracaibo. Some authors have misinterpreted a reference to a glow in...
2158. ...rms a closed loop, winds around forever without ever quite joining back up to itself exactly, or extends to infinity. If magnetic monopoles were to be discovered, then Gauss's law for magnetism would **state** the divergence of would be proportional to the "magnetic charge density" , analogous to Gauss's law for electric field. For zero net magnetic charge density (), the original form of Gauss's magnetism...
2159. ...n energy than the concerted pathway. SOD2 uses cyclic proton-coupled electron transfer reactions to convert superoxide (O) into either oxygen (O) or hydrogen peroxide (HO), depending on the oxidation **state** of the manganese metal and the protonation status of the active site. Mn + O ↔ Mn + O Mn + O + 2H ↔ Mn + HO The protons of the active site have been directly visualized and revealed that SOD2 utilize...
2160. ...y short-strong hydrogen bonds (SSHBs) with the Mn-bound solvent and the nearby Trp123 residue. For the Mn to Mn redox reaction, the proton is donated back to the glutamine to reform the neutral amide **state**. The fast and efficient PCET catalysis of SOD2 is explained by the use of a proton that is always present and never lost to bulk solvent. Hydrogen atom transfer (HAT) is distinct from PCET. In HAT, t...
2161. ...uld be different methods. In DRAM, it is done by setting up the device’s extended mode register with the proper ODT value. There are synchronous and asynchronous timing requirements, depending on the **state** of the DRAM device. Essentially, the On-Die Termination (ODT) is turned on just before the data transfer and then shut off immediately after. If there is more than one DRAM device loaded on the chann...
2162. ...tion of a new personal computer has been increasing at about 22% growth per year. This increase in consumption comes even though the energy consumed by a single CMOS logic gate in order to change its **state** has fallen exponentially in accordance with Moore's law, by virtue of shrinkage. An integrated-circuit chip contains many capacitive loads, formed both intentionally (as with gate-to-channel capacita...
2163. ...many capacitive loads, formed both intentionally (as with gate-to-channel capacitance) and unintentionally (between conductors which are near each other but not electrically connected). Changing the **state** of the circuit causes a change in the voltage across these parasitic capacitances, which involves a change in the amount of stored energy. As the capacitive loads are charged and discharged through r...
2164. .... As the capacitive loads are charged and discharged through resistive devices, an amount of energy comparable to that stored in the capacitor is dissipated as heat: The effect of heat dissipation on **state** change is to limit the amount of computation that may be performed within a given power budget. While device shrinkage can reduce some parasitic capacitances, the number of devices on an integrated c...
2165. ...l later chips such as the WDC 65C02, the Intel 80C85, the Freescale 68HC11 and some other CMOS chips – use "fully static logic" that has no minimum clock rate, but can "stop the clock" and hold their **state** indefinitely. When the clock is stopped, such circuits use no dynamic power but they still have a small, static power consumption caused by leakage current. As circuit dimensions shrink, subthreshold...
2166. ...significantly. For some embedded systems that only function for short periods at a time, this can dramatically reduce power consumption. Two other approaches also exist to lower the power overhead of **state** changes. One is to reduce the operating voltage of the circuit, as in a dual-voltage CPU, or to reduce the voltage change involved in a state change (making a state change only, changing node voltage...
2167. ...ther approaches also exist to lower the power overhead of state changes. One is to reduce the operating voltage of the circuit, as in a dual-voltage CPU, or to reduce the voltage change involved in a **state** change (making a state change only, changing node voltage by a fraction of the supply voltage—low voltage differential signaling, for example). This approach is limited by thermal noise within the ci...
2168. ...ist to lower the power overhead of state changes. One is to reduce the operating voltage of the circuit, as in a dual-voltage CPU, or to reduce the voltage change involved in a state change (making a **state** change only, changing node voltage by a fraction of the supply voltage—low voltage differential signaling, for example). This approach is limited by thermal noise within the circuit. There is a chara...
2169. ...naling, for example). This approach is limited by thermal noise within the circuit. There is a characteristic voltage (proportional to the device temperature and to the Boltzmann constant), which the **state** switching voltage must exceed in order for the circuit to be resistant to noise. This is typically on the order of 50–100 mV, for devices rated to 100 degrees Celsius external temperature (about 4 "k...
2170. ...gh adiabatic circuits have been built, it has been difficult for them to reduce computation power substantially in practical circuits. Finally, there are several techniques for reducing the number of **state** changes associated with a given computation. For clocked-logic circuits, the clock gating technique is used, to avoid changing the state of functional blocks that are not required for a given operati...
2171. ...nally, there are several techniques for reducing the number of state changes associated with a given computation. For clocked-logic circuits, the clock gating technique is used, to avoid changing the **state** of functional blocks that are not required for a given operation. As a more extreme alternative, the asynchronous logic approach implements circuits in such a way that a specific externally supplied...
2172. ...ips), laser diodes, and semiconductor optical amplifiers (SOA). Unlike conventional solder bumps that provide an electrical path and a mechanical connection to the package, thermal bumps act as solid-**state** heat pumps and add thermal management functionality locally on the surface of a chip or to another electrical component. The diameter of a thermal bump is 238 μm and 60 μm high. The thermal bump uses...
2173. ...inuous classical Heisenberg ferromagnet equation (CCHFE). The CCHFE is integrable. The equivalent counterpart of the Ishimori equation is the Davey-Stewartson equation. Landau–Lifshitz model In solid-**state** physics, the Landau–Lifshitz equation (LLE), named for Lev Landau and Evgeny Lifshitz, is a partial differential equation describing time evolution of magnetism in solids, depending on 1 time variabl...
2174. ...and across the electrode. The rate of the solution flow can be controlled by the electrode's angular velocity and modeled mathematically. This flow can quickly achieve conditions in which the steady-**state** current is controlled by the solution flow rather than diffusion. This is a contrast to still and unstirred experiments such as cyclic voltammetry where the steady-state current is limited by the dif...
2175. ...onditions in which the steady-state current is controlled by the solution flow rather than diffusion. This is a contrast to still and unstirred experiments such as cyclic voltammetry where the steady-**state** current is limited by the diffusion of species in solution.  By running linear sweep voltammetry and other experiments at various rotation rates, different electrochemical phenomena can be investigat...
2176. ...lectricity, i.e. has an infinite resistance so that no electric current passes through it. The phenomenon of superinsulation can be regarded as an exact dual to superconductivity. The superinsulating **state** can be destroyed by increasing the temperature and applying an external magnetic field and voltage. A superinsulator was first predicted by M. C. Diamantini, P. Sodano, and C. A. Trugenberger in 1996...
2177. ...temperature and applying an external magnetic field and voltage. A superinsulator was first predicted by M. C. Diamantini, P. Sodano, and C. A. Trugenberger in 1996 who found a superinsulating ground **state** dual to superconductivity, emerging at the insulating side of the superconductor-insulator transition in the Josephson junction array due to electric-magnetic duality. Superinsulators were independen...
2178. ...and experimentally found in titanium nitride (TiN) films. The 2008 measurements revealed giant resistance jumps interpreted as manifestations of the voltage threshold transition to a superinsulating **state** which was identified as the low-temperature confined phase emerging below the charge Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition. These jumps were similar to earlier findings of the resistance jumps i...
2179. ...skii-Kosterlitz-Thouless transition. These jumps were similar to earlier findings of the resistance jumps in indium oxide (InO) films. The finite-temperature phase transition into the superinsulating **state** was finally confirmed by Mironov et al. in NbTiN films in 2018. Other researchers have seen the similar phenomenon in disordered indium oxide films. Both superconductivity and superinsulation rest on...
2180. ...etic exchange coupling, as well as metallic conductivity. The "p" orbitals from oxygen and "d" orbitals from manganese can form a direct exchange. There is antiferromagnetic order because the singlet **state** is energetically favoured. This configuration allows a delocalization of the involved electrons due to a lowering of the kinetic energy. Quantum-mechanical perturbation theory results in an antiferro...
2181. ...l size of UMEs limits mass transfer, which give them large diffusion layers and small overall currents at typical electrochemical potentials. These features allow UMEs to achieve useful cyclic steady-**state** conditions at fast scan rates (V/s) with limited current distortion. UMEs were developed independently by Wightman and Fleischmann around 1980. UMEs enable electrochemical measurements in electrolyte...
2182. ...ctrode an enormous range of speeds can be studied.  Scan rates slower than the linear region are mathematically complex to model and rarely investigated. At even slower scan rates there is the steady-**state** region. In the steady-state region linear, voltammograms display reversible redox couples as steps rather than peaks. These steps can be modeled to gather useful electrochemical information. To acces...
2183. ...speeds can be studied.  Scan rates slower than the linear region are mathematically complex to model and rarely investigated. At even slower scan rates there is the steady-state region. In the steady-**state** region linear, voltammograms display reversible redox couples as steps rather than peaks. These steps can be modeled to gather useful electrochemical information. To access the steady-state region, t...
2184. ...he steady-state region linear, voltammograms display reversible redox couples as steps rather than peaks. These steps can be modeled to gather useful electrochemical information. To access the steady-**state** region, the scan rate must be lowered. However, as scan rates are slowed, the current also drops, which can reduce the reliability of the measurement. The low ratio of diffusion layer volume to elect...
2185. ...measurements at low scan rates. In contrast, the ratio of diffusion layer volume to electrode surface area is much higher for UMEs. When the scan rate of UME is lowered, it quickly enters the steady-**state** regime at useful scan rates. Although UMEs have small total currents, their steady-state currents are high compared to regular working electrodes. The Rg value which is defined as R/r which is the ra...
2186. ...trode surface area is much higher for UMEs. When the scan rate of UME is lowered, it quickly enters the steady-state regime at useful scan rates. Although UMEs have small total currents, their steady-**state** currents are high compared to regular working electrodes. The Rg value which is defined as R/r which is the ratio between the radius of insulation sheet (R) and the radius of the conductive material...
2187. ...lue obtain either by a rough estimation from a microscope image (as long as the electrode was fabricated with an homogeneous wire with a known diameter) or by a direct calculation based on the steady **state** current (i) obtained from a cyclic voltamogram based on the following equation: i=knFaDC* Where k is a geometric constant (disk, k = 4; hemispherical, k =2π), n is the number of electrons involved in...
2188. ...n on account of his German ethnicity. He then applied to the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (MIPT), where he was accepted. He said that at the time he would not have chosen to study solid-**state** physics, preferring particle physics or astrophysics, but is now happy with his choice. He received a diplom (MSc degree equivalent) from MIPT in 1982 and a Candidate of Sciences (PhD equivalent) deg...
2189. ...t is now happy with his choice. He received a diplom (MSc degree equivalent) from MIPT in 1982 and a Candidate of Sciences (PhD equivalent) degree in metal physics in 1987 from the Institute of Solid **State** Physics (ISSP) at the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS) in Chernogolovka. After earning his PhD with Victor Petrashov, Geim worked as a research scientist at the Institute for Microelectronics Techno...
2190. ...work in India in 1851. From 1852, Broun was director of Trivandrum Observatory, in Trivandrum, in Travancore, India. Trivandrum is today known as Thiruvananthapuram, and is the capital of the Indian **State** of Kerala, but then it was the capital of the princely state of Travancore, a territory in a subsidiary alliance with British India. The observatory had been founded in 1836 by Swathi Thirunal Rama V...
2191. ...andrum Observatory, in Trivandrum, in Travancore, India. Trivandrum is today known as Thiruvananthapuram, and is the capital of the Indian State of Kerala, but then it was the capital of the princely **state** of Travancore, a territory in a subsidiary alliance with British India. The observatory had been founded in 1836 by Swathi Thirunal Rama Varma, the Maharajah of Tranvacore. The first director of the...
2192. ...id"). Rabbi Yitzchak Schmelkes suggested applying "molid" to the generating of electric current. Rabbi Shlomo Zalman Auerbach and many others disagree with this application. Among other reasons, they **state** that "molid" is a limited category that cannot be expanded past the definitions the Talmudic Sages imposed. Rav Auerbach also stated that "molid" only applies when the new property is visible (which...
2193. ...as does the Conservative Committee on Jewish Law and Standards. One contemporary authority states that even according to the Chazon Ish, the prohibition of "building" would not apply to changing the **state** of electric circuits in a computer which is already running. The Chazon Ish argued, in addition, that closing a circuit to render a device operational might violate the Biblical prohibition of (strik...
2194. ...mo Zalman Auerbach rules leniently for several reasons: the lighting of sparks is undesired, and might not occur, and the sparks are very small so they might not be considered significant. With solid-**state** technology, the probability of generating sparks is greatly reduced. Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard Feynman recounted that while staying at a Jewish seminary for a conference, he was approache...
2195. ...a device to be forbidden. However, R' Auerbach disagrees, saying that heating metal is only prohibited when the intent is to modify the metal (e.g. tempering). Some feel that the prevalence of solid-**state** technology has made the reality underlying this concern obsolete in many cases. Rabbi Shlomo Zalman Auerbach rejected any technical prohibition on electricity: "In my opinion there is no prohibition...
2196. ...ion. While (in general) it is prohibited to adjust an electric device so that it turns on or off "sooner", many authorities permit adjusting it so an expected change will be "delayed" and the current **state** preserved for longer. According to the permissive opinion if a heating system is currently off (because the temperature is currently higher than the thermostat setting), one would be permitted to low...
2197. ...rrently off (because the temperature is currently higher than the thermostat setting), one would be permitted to lower the thermostat, as this causes the heating system to remain in its current "off" **state** for longer. Most rabbinical authorities have prohibited watching television during Shabbat, even if the TV is turned on before the start of Shabbat, and its settings are not changed. However, most ra...
2198. ...ssner effect). Changes in either temperature or magnetic flux density can cause the phase transition between normal and superconducting states. The highest temperature under which the superconducting **state** is seen is known as the critical temperature. At that temperature even the weakest external magnetic field will destroy the superconducting state, so the strength of the critical field is zero. As te...
2199. ...e highest temperature under which the superconducting state is seen is known as the critical temperature. At that temperature even the weakest external magnetic field will destroy the superconducting **state**, so the strength of the critical field is zero. As temperature decreases, the critical field increases generally to a maximum at absolute zero. For a type-I superconductor the discontinuity in heat c...
2200. ...is also a direct relation between the critical field and the critical current – the maximum electric current density that a given superconducting material can carry, before switching into the normal **state**. According to Ampère's law any electric current induces a magnetic field, but superconductors exclude that field. On a microscopic scale, the magnetic field is not quite zero at the edges of any give...
2201. ...As long as the induced magnetic field at the edges is less than the critical field, the material remains superconducting, but at higher currents, the field becomes too strong and the superconducting **state** is lost. This limit on current density has important practical implications in applications of superconducting materials – despite zero resistance they cannot carry unlimited quantities of electric p...
2202. ...of the critical field – the critical field is defined for a cylindrical sample with the field parallel to the axis of radial symmetry. With other shapes (spherical, for example), there may be a mixed **state** with partial penetration of the exterior surface by the magnetic field (and thus partial normal state), while the interior of the sample remains superconducting. Type-II superconductors allow a diffe...
2203. ...to the axis of radial symmetry. With other shapes (spherical, for example), there may be a mixed state with partial penetration of the exterior surface by the magnetic field (and thus partial normal **state**), while the interior of the sample remains superconducting. Type-II superconductors allow a different sort of mixed state, where the magnetic field (above the lower critical field formula_4) is allow...
2204. ...ration of the exterior surface by the magnetic field (and thus partial normal state), while the interior of the sample remains superconducting. Type-II superconductors allow a different sort of mixed **state**, where the magnetic field (above the lower critical field formula_4) is allowed to penetrate along cylindrical "holes" through the material, each of which carries a magnetic flux quantum. Along these...
2205. ...ed to penetrate along cylindrical "holes" through the material, each of which carries a magnetic flux quantum. Along these flux cylinders, the material is essentially in a normal, non-superconducting **state**, surrounded by a superconductor where the magnetic field goes back to zero. The width of each cylinder is on the order of the penetration depth for the material. As the magnetic field increases, the...
2206. ...tion depth for the material. As the magnetic field increases, the flux cylinders move closer together, and eventually at the upper critical field formula_5, they leave no room for the superconducting **state** and the zero-resistivity property is lost. The upper critical field is the magnetic flux density (usually expressed with the unit tesla (T)) that completely suppresses superconductivity in a type-II...
2207. ...DE, thus approximating the PDE locally with These equation sets are element equations. They are linear if the underlying PDE is linear and vice versa. Algebraic equation sets that arise in the steady-**state** problems are solved using numerical linear algebra methods. In contrast, ordinary differential equation sets that occur in the transient problems are solved by numerical integration using standard te...
2208. ...plex problem represent different areas in the physical system. FEA may be used for analyzing problems over complicated domains (like cars and oil pipelines) when the domain changes (as during a solid-**state** reaction with a moving boundary), when the desired precision varies over the entire domain, or when the solution lacks smoothness. FEA simulations provide a valuable resource as they remove multiple...
2209. ...(right). The magnetising and demagnetising wavelengths provide the energy for the system to reach the intermediate states which then relaxed non-radiatively to one of the two states (the intermediate **state** for magnetisation and demagnetisation are different and so the photon flux is not wasted by relaxation to the same state from which the system was just excited). A direct transition from the ground s...
2210. ...which then relaxed non-radiatively to one of the two states (the intermediate state for magnetisation and demagnetisation are different and so the photon flux is not wasted by relaxation to the same **state** from which the system was just excited). A direct transition from the ground state to the magnetic state and, more importantly, vice versa is a forbidden transition, and this leads to the magnetised...
2211. ...e for magnetisation and demagnetisation are different and so the photon flux is not wasted by relaxation to the same state from which the system was just excited). A direct transition from the ground **state** to the magnetic state and, more importantly, vice versa is a forbidden transition, and this leads to the magnetised state being metastable and persisting for a long period at low temperatures. One of...
2212. ...d demagnetisation are different and so the photon flux is not wasted by relaxation to the same state from which the system was just excited). A direct transition from the ground state to the magnetic **state** and, more importantly, vice versa is a forbidden transition, and this leads to the magnetised state being metastable and persisting for a long period at low temperatures. One of the most promising gr...
2213. ...from which the system was just excited). A direct transition from the ground state to the magnetic state and, more importantly, vice versa is a forbidden transition, and this leads to the magnetised **state** being metastable and persisting for a long period at low temperatures. One of the most promising groups of molecular photomagnetic materials are Co-Fe Prussian blue analogues (i.e. compounds with the...
2214. ...olecules of water per replaced iron). This non-stoichiometry is essential to the photomagnetism of Prussian blue analogues as regions which contain an iron vacancy are more stable in the non-magnetic **state** and regions without a vacancy are more stable in the magnetic state. By illumination by the correct frequency one or another of these regions can be locally changed to its more stable state from the...
2215. ...ntial to the photomagnetism of Prussian blue analogues as regions which contain an iron vacancy are more stable in the non-magnetic state and regions without a vacancy are more stable in the magnetic **state**. By illumination by the correct frequency one or another of these regions can be locally changed to its more stable state from the bulk state, triggering the phase change of the entire molecule. The...
2216. ...-magnetic state and regions without a vacancy are more stable in the magnetic state. By illumination by the correct frequency one or another of these regions can be locally changed to its more stable **state** from the bulk state, triggering the phase change of the entire molecule. The reverse phase change can be accomplished by exciting the other type of region by the appropriate frequency. Holbrook Super...
2217. ...regions without a vacancy are more stable in the magnetic state. By illumination by the correct frequency one or another of these regions can be locally changed to its more stable state from the bulk **state**, triggering the phase change of the entire molecule. The reverse phase change can be accomplished by exciting the other type of region by the appropriate frequency. Holbrook Superconductor Project Th...
2218. ...he Emperor became the ultimate personification of evil in the series, replacing his apprentice Darth Vader as the central villain. Though the films of the original "Star Wars" trilogy do not actually **state** the Emperor's name, the novelization of "Return of the Jedi" states his surname as Palpatine. He was given the first name Sheev in the 2014 novel "". During the story development of "The Empire Strik...
2219. ...dation of power is described as being similar to the first Roman emperor, Augustus. Both legitimized authoritarian rule by saying that corruption in the Senate was hampering the powers of the head of **state**; both pressured the Senate to grant extraordinary powers to deal with a crisis, falsely claiming that they would rescind those powers once the crisis was over; and both relied on their strong control...
2220. ...thousands of micrometers. Microplasmas can be generated at a variety of temperatures and pressures, existing as either thermal or non-thermal plasmas. Non-thermal microplasmas that can maintain their **state** at standard temperatures and pressures are readily available and accessible to scientists as they can be easily sustained and manipulated under standard conditions. Therefore, they can be employed fo...
2221. ...incident radiation becomes smaller than the work required to eject an electron from one or other quantum states in the constituent absorbing atom, the incident radiation ceases to be absorbed by that **state**. For example, incident radiation on an atom of a wavelength that has a corresponding energy just below the binding energy of the K-shell electron in that atom cannot eject the K-shell electron. Siegb...
2222. ...used to generate digital electronic stimuli. Digital electronics stimuli are a specific kind of electrical waveform varying between two conventional voltages that correspond to two logic states ("low **state**" and "high state", "0" and "1"). The main purpose of a digital pattern generator is to stimulate the inputs of a digital electronic device. For that reason, the voltage levels generated by a digital...
2223. ...digital electronic stimuli. Digital electronics stimuli are a specific kind of electrical waveform varying between two conventional voltages that correspond to two logic states ("low state" and "high **state**", "0" and "1"). The main purpose of a digital pattern generator is to stimulate the inputs of a digital electronic device. For that reason, the voltage levels generated by a digital pattern generator...
2224. ...ple are necessarily bioelectronic devices, but only those which involve an intimate and directly interface of electronics and biological systems. The improvement of standards and tools to monitor the **state** of cells at subcellular resolutions is lacking funding and employment. This is a problem because advances in other fields of science are beginning to analyze large cell populations, increasing the ne...
2225. ...ch could blanket the earth, cutting out sunlight for years on end, causing the disruption of food chains, in what is termed a nuclear winter scenario. The main causes of death and disablement in this **state** are thermal burns and the failure of structures resulting from the blast effect. Injury from the pressure wave is minimal in contrast because the human body can survive up to 2 bar (30 psi) while mos...
2226. ...istry. Arrhenius' explanation was that in forming a solution, the salt dissociates into Faraday's ions, he proposed that ions formed even in the absence of an electric current. Ions in their gas-like **state** are highly reactive and will rapidly interact with ions of opposite charge to give neutral molecules or ionic salts. Ions are also produced in the liquid or solid state when salts interact with solve...
2227. ...urrent. Ions in their gas-like state are highly reactive and will rapidly interact with ions of opposite charge to give neutral molecules or ionic salts. Ions are also produced in the liquid or solid **state** when salts interact with solvents (for example, water) to produce "solvated ions", which are more stable, for reasons involving a combination of energy and entropy changes as the ions move away from...
2228. ...ltation with William Whewell. Ions are ubiquitous in nature and are responsible for diverse phenomena from the luminescence of the Sun to the existence of the Earth's ionosphere. Atoms in their ionic **state** may have a different color from neutral atoms, and thus light absorption by metal ions gives the color of gemstones. In both inorganic and organic chemistry (including biochemistry), the interaction...
2229. ...e, the (positively doubly charged) example seen above is referred to as , or Fe III (Fe I for a neutral Fe atom, Fe II for a singly ionized Fe ion). The Roman numeral designates the "formal oxidation **state**" of an element, whereas the superscripted Indo-Arabic numerals denote the net charge. The two notations are, therefore, exchangeable for monatomic ions, but the Roman numerals "cannot" be applied to...
2230. ...ning or losing electrons. This allows the molecule to preserve its stable electronic configuration while acquiring an electrical charge. The energy required to detach an electron in its lowest energy **state** from an atom or molecule of a gas with less net electric charge is called the "ionization potential", or "ionization energy". The "n"th ionization energy of an atom is the energy required to detach i...
2231. ...ons from the metal atoms are transferred to the electron-deficient nonmetal atoms. This reaction produces metal cations and nonmetal anions, which are attracted to each other to form a "salt". Taylor **state** In plasma physics, a Taylor state is the minimum energy state of a plasma while the plasma is conserving magnetic flux. This was first proposed by John Bryan Taylor in 1974 and he backed up this clai...
2232. ...ferred to the electron-deficient nonmetal atoms. This reaction produces metal cations and nonmetal anions, which are attracted to each other to form a "salt". Taylor state In plasma physics, a Taylor **state** is the minimum energy state of a plasma while the plasma is conserving magnetic flux. This was first proposed by John Bryan Taylor in 1974 and he backed up this claim using data from the ZETA machine...
2233. ...ient nonmetal atoms. This reaction produces metal cations and nonmetal anions, which are attracted to each other to form a "salt". Taylor state In plasma physics, a Taylor state is the minimum energy **state** of a plasma while the plasma is conserving magnetic flux. This was first proposed by John Bryan Taylor in 1974 and he backed up this claim using data from the ZETA machine.  Taylor-States are critica...
2234. ...y John Bryan Taylor in 1974 and he backed up this claim using data from the ZETA machine.  Taylor-States are critical to operating both the Dynomak and the reversed field pinch - both run in a Taylor **State**. In 1974, Dr. John B Taylor proposed that a spheromak could be formed by inducing a magnetic flux into a loop plasma. The plasma would then relax naturally into a spheromak also known as a Taylor Sta...
2235. ...ate. In 1974, Dr. John B Taylor proposed that a spheromak could be formed by inducing a magnetic flux into a loop plasma. The plasma would then relax naturally into a spheromak also known as a Taylor **State**. This process worked if the plasma: These claims were later checked by Marshall Rosenbluth in 1979. In 1974, Dr. Taylor could only use results from the ZETA pinch device to back up these claims. But,...
2236. ...rmula_1 surrounding a plasma with negligible thermal energy (formula_2). Since formula_3 on formula_1. This implies that formula_5. As discussed above, the plasma would relax towards a minimum energy **state** while conserving its magnetic helicity. Since the boundary is perfectly conducting, there cannot be any change in the associated flux. This implies formula_6 and formula_7 on formula_1. We formulate...
2237. ...zing the plasma energy formula_9 while conserving magnetic helicity formula_10. The variational problem is formula_11. After some algebra this leads to the following constraint for the minimum energy **state** formula_12. AC/DC receiver design An AC/DC receiver design is a style of power supply of vacuum tube radio or television receivers that eliminated the bulky and expensive mains transformer. A side-ef...
2238. ...f equipment continued to be produced long after AC became the universal standard due to its cost advantage over AC-only, and was only discontinued when vacuum tubes were replaced by low-voltage solid-**state** electronics. A rectifier and a filter capacitor were connected directly to the mains. If the mains power was AC, the rectifier converted it to DC. If it was DC, the rectifier effectively acted as a c...
2239. ...TV22 are described in a technical publication. AC/DC televisions were produced well into the color and semiconductor era (some sets were tube/semiconductor hybrids). With widespread adoption of solid-**state** design in the 1970s, voltage and power requirements for tabletop portable radio receivers dropped significantly. One common approach was to design a battery-powered radio (typically 6 volts DC from f...
2240. ...nalysis. That is, it gives the number of node voltage equations required. Rank and nullity are dual concepts and are related by: Once a set of geometrically independent variables have been chosen the **state** of the network is expressed in terms of these. The result is a set of independent linear equations which need to be solved simultaneously in order to find the values of the network variables. This se...
2241. ...line batteries. Secondary batteries, also known as "secondary cells", or "rechargeable batteries", must be charged before first use; they are usually assembled with active materials in the discharged **state**. Rechargeable batteries are (re)charged by applying electric current, which reverses the chemical reactions that occur during discharge/use. Devices to supply the appropriate current are called charg...
2242. ...for oceanographic instruments or military applications becomes activated on immersion in water. On 28 February 2017, the University of Texas at Austin issued a press release about a new type of solid-**state** battery, developed by a team led by lithium-ion battery inventor John Goodenough, "that could lead to safer, faster-charging, longer-lasting rechargeable batteries for handheld mobile devices, electr...
2243. ...attery inventor John Goodenough, "that could lead to safer, faster-charging, longer-lasting rechargeable batteries for handheld mobile devices, electric cars and stationary energy storage". The solid-**state** battery is also said to have "three times the energy density", increasing its useful life in electric vehicles, for example. It should also be more ecologically sound since the technology uses less e...
2244. ...uch as USBCELL, which allows charging an AA battery through a USB connector, nanoball batteries that allow for a discharge rate about 100x greater than current batteries, and smart battery packs with **state**-of-charge monitors and battery protection circuits that prevent damage on over-discharge. Low self-discharge (LSD) allows secondary cells to be charged prior to shipping. Lithium–sulfur batteries wer...
2245. ...power when it turns on and off, whereas the heater has almost none. NILM systems can also identify appliances with a series of individual changes in power draw. These appliances are modeled as finite **state** machines. A dishwasher, for example, has heaters and motors that turn on and off during a typical dish washing cycle. These will be identified as clusters, and power draw for the entire cluster will...
2246. ...hospital patients, but included other populations such as those set out above, e.g., orphans fed irradiated milk, children injected with radioactive materials, and prisoners in Washington and Oregon **state** prisons. Much of the experimentation was carried out in order to assess how the human body metabolizes radioactive materials, information that could be used by the Departments of Energy and Defense i...
2247. ...ides—the neutron drip line and proton drip line—and are all unstable with short half-lives, measured in milliseconds; for example, lithium-11 has a half-life of . Halos in effect represent an excited **state** with nucleons in an outer quantum shell which has unfilled energy levels "below" it (both in terms of radius and energy). The halo may be made of either neutrons [NN, NNN] or protons [PP, PPP]. Nucle...
2248. ...he third shell has 3s, 3p, and 3d; the fourth shell has 4s, 4p, 4d and 4f; the fifth shell has 5s, 5p, 5d, and 5f and can theoretically hold more in the 5g subshell that is not occupied in the ground-**state** electron configuration of any known element. The various possible subshells are shown in the following table: Each subshell is constrained to hold electrons at most, namely: Therefore, the K shell, w...
2249. ...olated system that cannot rotate. If the isolated system is allowed to rotate in response to an externally applied magnetic field, then this theorem does not apply. If, in addition, there is only one **state** of thermal equilibrium in a given temperature and field, and the system is allowed time to return to equilibrium after a field is applied, then there will be no magnetization. The probability that th...
2250. ...given temperature and field, and the system is allowed time to return to equilibrium after a field is applied, then there will be no magnetization. The probability that the system will be in a given **state** of motion is predicted by Maxwell–Boltzmann statistics to be proportional to formula_1, where formula_2 is the energy of the system, formula_3 is the Boltzmann constant, and formula_4 is the absolute...
2251. ...larized laser pulse corresponds to the action of an effective magnetic field. Yet, before the experiments of Stanciu and Hansteen, all-optical controllable magnetization reversal in a stable magnetic **state** was considered impossible. In quantum field theory and quantum chemistry the effect where the angular momentum associated to the circular motion of the photons induces an angular momentum in the elec...
2252. ...Both usually hold licenses and insurances to properly and safely operate a business, protecting the employees and home owners/business owners from insurance liabilities. These requirements vary from **state** to state. Electricians may work for an electrical contractor, or directly for individuals or companies. Electrical contractors are generally classified by three major types of work performed. Electri...
2253. ...ally hold licenses and insurances to properly and safely operate a business, protecting the employees and home owners/business owners from insurance liabilities. These requirements vary from state to **state**. Electricians may work for an electrical contractor, or directly for individuals or companies. Electrical contractors are generally classified by three major types of work performed. Electrical contr...
2254. ...g–Penney model, which helps to explain the origin of band gaps in semiconductors). If the ions each contribute one electron, then the band will be half-filled, up to values of formula_4 in the ground **state**. Imagine a lattice distortion where every other ion moves closer to one neighbor and further away from the other, the unfavourable energy of the long bond between ions is outweighed by the energy gai...
2255. ...energy savings due to the new band gaps outweighs the elastic energy cost of rearranging the ions. Of course, this effect will be noticeable only when the electrons are arranged close to their ground **state** – in other words, thermal excitation should be minimized. Therefore, the Peierls transition should be seen at low temperature. This is the basic argument for the occurrence of the Peierls transition,...
2256. ...the theory of Bardeen, Cooper and Schrieffer (BCS). The most clear fact the BCS theory gives is the presence of the pairing of two electrons (Cooper pair). After the transition to the superconducting **state**, the superconducting gap 2Δ in the single-particle density of states arises, and the dispersion relation can be described like the one of a semiconductor with band gap 2Δ around the Fermi energy. Fro...
2257. ...rule, the transition probabilities can be written as where formula_2 is the density of states. And formula_3 is the matrix element of an interaction Hamiltonian formula_4 where In the superconducting **state**, each term of the Hamiltonian is dependent, because of the superconducting state consists of a phase-coherent superposition of occupied one-electron states, whereas it is independent in the normal st...
2258. ...ty of states. And formula_3 is the matrix element of an interaction Hamiltonian formula_4 where In the superconducting state, each term of the Hamiltonian is dependent, because of the superconducting **state** consists of a phase-coherent superposition of occupied one-electron states, whereas it is independent in the normal state. Therefore, there appear interference terms in the absolute square of the mat...
2259. ...te, each term of the Hamiltonian is dependent, because of the superconducting state consists of a phase-coherent superposition of occupied one-electron states, whereas it is independent in the normal **state**. Therefore, there appear interference terms in the absolute square of the matrix element. The result of the coherence changes the matrix element formula_3 into the matrix element formula_7 of single...
2260. ...the response of electrons due to the incident electromagnetic wave can be regarded as two parts, the “superconducting” and “normal” electrons. The first one corresponds to the superconducting ground **state** and the next to the thermally excited electrons from the ground state. This picture is the so-called "two-fluid" model. If we consider the “normal” electrons, the ratio of the optical conductivity to...
2261. ...n be regarded as two parts, the “superconducting” and “normal” electrons. The first one corresponds to the superconducting ground state and the next to the thermally excited electrons from the ground **state**. This picture is the so-called "two-fluid" model. If we consider the “normal” electrons, the ratio of the optical conductivity to that of the normal state is where formula_14 is the Heaviside theta f...
2262. ...thermally excited electrons from the ground state. This picture is the so-called "two-fluid" model. If we consider the “normal” electrons, the ratio of the optical conductivity to that of the normal **state** is where formula_14 is the Heaviside theta function. The first term of the upper equation is the contribution of "normal" electrons, and the second term is due to the superconducting electrons. The c...
2263. ...tylene torch. These require higher temperatures and do not have the same high selectivity that can be achieved with the electrochemical approach. Surface termination is often an issue with both solid **state** and vacuum devices, and the details of final surface band structure have been compared with alternatives in various device structures. While the original effort failed to produce useful products, fol...
2264. ...the switch or relay. If the inductance is large enough, the energy will generate an electric spark, causing the contact points to oxidize, deteriorate, or sometimes weld together, or destroy a solid-**state** switch. A snubber capacitor across the newly opened circuit creates a path for this impulse to bypass the contact points, thereby preserving their life; these were commonly found in contact breaker i...
2265. ...benefit from a pre-charge to limit in-rush currents at power-up of high voltage direct current (HVDC) circuits. This will extend the life of the component and may mitigate high-voltage hazards. Solid **state** ionics Solid-state ionics is the study of ionic-electronic mixed conductor and fully ionic conductors (solid electrolytes) and their uses. Some materials that fall into this category include inorgani...
2266. ...charge to limit in-rush currents at power-up of high voltage direct current (HVDC) circuits. This will extend the life of the component and may mitigate high-voltage hazards. Solid state ionics Solid-**state** ionics is the study of ionic-electronic mixed conductor and fully ionic conductors (solid electrolytes) and their uses. Some materials that fall into this category include inorganic crystalline and p...
2267. ...onductors (solid electrolytes) and their uses. Some materials that fall into this category include inorganic crystalline and polycrystalline solids, ceramics, glasses, polymers, and composites. Solid-**state** ionic devices, such as solid oxide fuel cells, can be much more reliable and long-lasting, especially under harsh conditions, than comparable devices with fluid electrolytes. The field of solid-state...
2268. ...state ionic devices, such as solid oxide fuel cells, can be much more reliable and long-lasting, especially under harsh conditions, than comparable devices with fluid electrolytes. The field of solid-**state** ionics was first developed in Europe, starting with the work of Michael Faraday on solid electrolytes AgS and PbF in 1834. Fundamental contributions were later made by Walther Nernst, who derived the...
2269. ...tky and Wagner; this helped explain ionic and electronic transport in ionic crystals, ion-conducting glasses, polymer electrolytes and nanocomposites. In the late 20th and early 21st centuries, solid-**state** ionics focused on the synthesis and characterization of novel solid electrolytes and their applications in solid state battery systems, fuel cells and sensors. The term "solid state ionics" was coine...
2270. ...lectrolytes and nanocomposites. In the late 20th and early 21st centuries, solid-state ionics focused on the synthesis and characterization of novel solid electrolytes and their applications in solid **state** battery systems, fuel cells and sensors. The term "solid state ionics" was coined in 1967 by Takehiko Takahashi, but did not become widely used until the 1980s, with the emergence of the journal "Sol...
2271. ...centuries, solid-state ionics focused on the synthesis and characterization of novel solid electrolytes and their applications in solid state battery systems, fuel cells and sensors. The term "solid **state** ionics" was coined in 1967 by Takehiko Takahashi, but did not become widely used until the 1980s, with the emergence of the journal "Solid State Ionics". The first international conference on this to...
2272. ...ttery systems, fuel cells and sensors. The term "solid state ionics" was coined in 1967 by Takehiko Takahashi, but did not become widely used until the 1980s, with the emergence of the journal "Solid **State** Ionics". The first international conference on this topic was held in 1972 in Belgirate, Italy, under the name "Fast Ion Transport in Solids, Solid State Batteries and Devices". In the early 1830s, M...
2273. ...80s, with the emergence of the journal "Solid State Ionics". The first international conference on this topic was held in 1972 in Belgirate, Italy, under the name "Fast Ion Transport in Solids, Solid **State** Batteries and Devices". In the early 1830s, Michael Faraday laid the foundations of electrochemistry and solid-state ionics by discovering the motion of ions in liquid and solid electrolytes. Earlier...
2274. ...d in 1972 in Belgirate, Italy, under the name "Fast Ion Transport in Solids, Solid State Batteries and Devices". In the early 1830s, Michael Faraday laid the foundations of electrochemistry and solid-**state** ionics by discovering the motion of ions in liquid and solid electrolytes. Earlier, around 1800, Alessandro Volta used a liquid electrolyte in his voltaic pile, the first electrochemical battery, but...
2275. ...size of the filler particles was required to increase the area of this interface. Similar charge-separation effects were observed for grain boundaries in crystalline ionic conductors. By 1971, solid-**state** cells and batteries based on rubidium silver iodide (RbAgI) have been designed and tested in a wide range of temperatures and discharge currents. Despite the relatively high conductivity of RbAgI, th...
2276. ...electrolyte is used to separate the electrochromic film (typically WO) and ion-storing film (typically LiCoO) in the smart glass, a window whose transparency is controlled by external voltage. Solid-**state** ionic conductors are essential components of lithium-ion batteries, proton exchange membrane fuel cells (PEMFCs), supercapacitors, a novel class of electrochemical energy storage devices, and solid o...
2277. ...Cellular Radiation Response. These workshops serve as an opportunity for microbeam personnel to come together and share ideas. The proceedings of the workshops serve as an excellent reference on the **state** of microbeam-related science. Aerial bundled cable Aerial bundled cables (also aerial bundled conductors or simply ABC) are overhead power lines using several insulated phase conductors bundled tight...
2278. ...communications, or using radio. Online displays are also available which allow the user to use an internet connected display to show near real-time consumption. In January 2009 the government of the **state** of Queensland, Australia began offering wireless energy monitors as part of its ClimateSmart Home Service program. By August 2009, almost 100,000 homes had signed up for the service, by August 2010 t...
2279. ...e end of the program more than 335,000 households across Queensland had received the service with the Elite energy monitoring device supplied by Efergy Technologies. In mid-2013 the government of the **state** of Victoria, Australia enabled Zigbee-based In-Home Displays to be connected to Victorian Smart Meter. From September 2019, the Victorian households are eligible to avail rebates for home energy moni...

=== FUNDAMENTAL FREQUENCY (20 occurrences) ===
1. ...s is "displacement power factor". Non-linear loads change the shape of the current waveform from a sine wave to some other form. Non-linear loads create harmonic currents in addition to the original (**fundamental frequency**) AC current. This is of importance in practical power systems that contain non-linear loads such as rectifiers, some forms of electric lighting, electric arc furnaces, welding equipment, switched-mod...
2. ...r of cycles). Therefore, AC voltage is often expressed as a root mean square (RMS) value, written as formula_24, because For this reason, AC power's waveform becomes Full-wave rectified sine, and its **fundamental frequency** is double of the one of the voltage's. To illustrate these concepts, consider a 230 V AC mains supply used in many countries around the world. It is so called because its root mean square value is 23...
3. ..."v" is the velocity perpendicular to the magnetic field, "c" is the speed of light and formula_3 is the permeability of free space. Cyclotron radiation has a spectrum with its main spike at the same **fundamental frequency** as the particle's orbit, and harmonics at higher integral factors. Harmonics are the result of imperfections in the actual emission environment, which also create a broadening of the spectral lines....
4. ..., the frequency is formula_7 so the resonant frequencies are: So the resonant frequencies of resonators, called normal modes, are equally spaced multiples (harmonics) of a lowest frequency called the **fundamental frequency**. The above analysis assumes the medium inside the resonator is homogeneous, so the waves travel at a constant speed, and that the shape of the resonator is rectilinear. If the resonator is inhomogene...
5. ...If the resonator is inhomogeneous or has a nonrectilinear shape, like a circular drumhead or a cylindrical microwave cavity, the resonant frequencies may not occur at equally spaced multiples of the **fundamental frequency**. They are then called overtones instead of harmonics. There may be several such series of resonant frequencies in a single resonator, corresponding to different modes of vibration. An electrical circ...
6. ...t one of the cavity's resonant frequencies is applied, the oppositely-moving waves form standing waves, and the cavity stores electromagnetic energy. Since the cavity's lowest resonant frequency, the **fundamental frequency**, is that at which the width of the cavity is equal to a half-wavelength (λ/2), cavity resonators are only used at microwave frequencies and above, where wavelengths are short enough that the cavity i...
7. ...f the radiation depends on the height above the ground plane or power plane (at RF, one is as good as the other) and the length of the conductor in relation to the wavelength of the signal component (**fundamental frequency**, harmonic or transient such as overshoot, undershoot or ringing). At lower frequencies, such as 133 MHz, radiation is almost exclusively via I/O cables; RF noise gets onto the power planes and is cou...
8. ...of the distribution network. Mains hum Mains hum, electric hum, cycle hum, or power line hum is a sound associated with alternating current which is twice the frequency of the mains electricity. The **fundamental frequency** of this sound is usually double that of fundamental 50/60Hz, i.e., 100/120Hz, depending on the local power-line frequency. The sound often has heavy harmonic content above 50/60Hz. Because of the pre...
9. ...h starts with Kirchhoff's Current Law written in the frequency domain and a chosen number of harmonics. A sinusoidal signal applied to a nonlinear component in a system will generate harmonics of the **fundamental frequency**. Effectively the method assumes a linear combination of sinusoids can represent the solution, then balances current and voltage sinusoids to satisfy Kirchhoff's law. The method is commonly used to si...
10. ...es create and use signals which are switched on/off at great speed, approximately square waves. Any repetitive signal can be reduced down to a Fourier series of sine waves. A perfect square wave with **fundamental frequency** is: The square wave contains harmonics of the fundamental (that is, sine waves with a frequency that is a multiple of the fundamental frequency ) which go on upwards in frequency for ever, although a...
11. ...ourier series of sine waves. A perfect square wave with fundamental frequency is: The square wave contains harmonics of the fundamental (that is, sine waves with a frequency that is a multiple of the **fundamental frequency** ) which go on upwards in frequency for ever, although at a decreasing amplitude. These harmonics are responsible for much of the interference created by computers. A modern PC is a device which is op...
12. ...can be mitigated by the use of reactive output filtering, which is incorporated into better quality VFDs. Reactive filtration impedes the high frequency harmonic content but has little effect on the **fundamental frequency** that determines motor speed. The result is an output to the motor that is closer to an ideal sine wave. In the past, VFDs that have a capacity greater than were costly, thus making the rotary phase c...
13. ...omponent, but in absolute terms, ripple (as in the case of HVDC transmission systems) may be thousands of volts. Ripple itself is a composite (non-sinusoidal) waveform consisting of harmonics of some **fundamental frequency** which is usually the original AC line frequency, but in the case of switched-mode power supplies, the fundamental frequency can be tens of kilohertz to megahertz. The characteristics and components o...
14. ...lf is a composite (non-sinusoidal) waveform consisting of harmonics of some fundamental frequency which is usually the original AC line frequency, but in the case of switched-mode power supplies, the **fundamental frequency** can be tens of kilohertz to megahertz. The characteristics and components of ripple depend on its source: there is single-phase half- and full-wave rectification, and three-phase half- and full-wave...
15. ...ermine the THD of an amplifier by using a very-low-distortion sinewave input and examining the output. The figure measured will include noise, and any contribution from imperfect filtering out of the **fundamental frequency**. Harmonic-by-harmonic measurement, without wideband noise, can be measured by a more complex wave analyser. Another application is measurement of the effectiveness of an electronic filter with extrem...
16. ...ss of an electronic filter with extremely narrow passband, such as a notch filter in a parametric equalizer. There are several types of distortion analyzers: This type of THD analyzer filters out the **fundamental frequency** of a signal with a notch filter, leaving only distortion products plus noise; the ratio of this remnant to the signal amplitude is the THD. A fundamental suppression analyzer consists of three main s...
17. ...circuit with the help of an attenuator and an impedance matcher. This signal is then pre-amplified to a desired level. The following section consists of a Wien bridge notch filter tuned to reject the **fundamental frequency** and balanced for minimum output by adjusting the bridge controls. The output, which is the remaining signal after the fundamental has been suppressed, is amplified to a measurable level. A feedback l...
18. ...r the fundamental has been suppressed, is amplified to a measurable level. A feedback loop from the bridge amplifier output to the pre-amp input helps to eliminate any remaining contribution from the **fundamental frequency**. The output from these blocks is measured, typically using an instrumentation amplifier driving an analog or digital meter. The voltage at the meter is due to the harmonic distortion products plus no...
19. ...represent Zener tunneling of normal electrons across the Peierls gap. Subsequent experiments showed a sharp threshold electric field, as well as peaks in the noise spectrum (narrow band noise) whose **fundamental frequency** scales with the CDW current. These and other experiments (e.g.,) confirm that the CDW collectively carries an electric current in a jerky fashion above the threshold field. Linear chain compounds exh...
20. ...esonance frequencies can thus be approximately determined by "f" ≃ "mc"/(2π"a") ≃ 7.5 "m" Hz (with "m" = 1, 2, ...; "a" the Earth's radius and "c" the speed of light). These resonant modes with their **fundamental frequency** of "f" ≃ 7.5 Hz are known as Schumann resonances. About 100 lightning strokes per second are generated all over the world excited by thunderstorms located mainly in the continental areas at low and m...

=== SEQUENCE (177 occurrences) ===
1. ...the curl of the second Maxwell equation () yields: Evaluating the left hand side of () with the above identity and simplifying using (), yields: Evaluating the right hand side of () by exchanging the **sequence** of derivatives and inserting the fourth yields: Combining () and () again, gives a vector-valued differential equation for the electric field, solving the homogeneous Maxwell equations: Taking the cu...
2. ...of water and fat in the body. Pulses of radio waves excite the nuclear spin energy transition, and magnetic field gradients localize the polarization in space. By varying the parameters of the pulse **sequence**, different contrasts may be generated between tissues based on the relaxation properties of the hydrogen atoms therein. Since its development in the 1970s and 1980s, MRI has proven to be a versatile...
3. ...liver MRI, and newer hepatobiliary contrast agents also provide the opportunity to perform functional biliary imaging. Anatomical imaging of the bile ducts is achieved by using a heavily T2-weighted **sequence** in magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP). Functional imaging of the pancreas is performed following administration of secretin. MR enterography provides non-invasive assessment of inflam...
4. ...released. In 2008, a new contrast agent named gadoxetate, brand name Eovist (US) or Primovist (EU), was approved for diagnostic use: This has the theoretical benefit of a dual excretion path. An MRI **sequence** is a particular setting of radiofrequency pulses and gradients, resulting in a particular image appearance. The T1 and T2 weighting can also be described as MRI sequences. Magnetic resonance spectros...
5. ...Efforts to make multi-parametric quantitative MRI faster have produced sequences which map multiple parameters simultaneously, either by building separate encoding methods for each parameter into the **sequence**, or by fitting MR signal evolution to a multi-parameter model. Traditional MRI generates poor images of lung tissue because there are fewer water molecules with protons that can be excited by the mag...
6. ...biology to study the interaction of suitable proteins. Several different kinds of hardware random number generators involve the detection of single photons. In one example, for each bit in the random **sequence** that is to be produced, a photon is sent to a beam-splitter. In such a situation, there are two possible outcomes of equal probability. The actual outcome is used to determine whether the next bit in...
7. ...is to be produced, a photon is sent to a beam-splitter. In such a situation, there are two possible outcomes of equal probability. The actual outcome is used to determine whether the next bit in the **sequence** is "0" or "1". Much research has been devoted to applications of photons in the field of quantum optics. Photons seem well-suited to be elements of an extremely fast quantum computer, and the quantum...
8. ...ugh the platypus lacks the mammalian sex-determining gene SRY, a study found that the mechanism of sex determination is the AMH gene on the oldest Y chromosome. A draft version of the platypus genome **sequence** was published in "Nature" on 8May 2008, revealing both reptilian and mammalian elements, as well as two genes found previously only in birds, amphibians, and fish. More than 80% of the platypus's gen...
9. ...present a second digit, and a color dot (or band) in the middle provided the third digit. The rule was "body, tip, dot", providing two significant digits for value and the decimal multiplier, in that **sequence**. Default tolerance was ±20%. Closer-tolerance resistors had silver (±10%) or gold-colored (±5%) paint on the other end. Early resistors were made in more or less arbitrary round numbers; a series mig...
10. ...tector depends on the wavelengths of light to be recorded. A spectrograph is sometimes called polychromator, as an analogy to monochromator. The star spectral classification and discovery of the main **sequence**, Hubble's law and the Hubble sequence were all made with spectrographs that used photographic paper. James Webb Space Telescope contains both a near-infrared spectrograph (NIRSpec) and a mid-infrared...
11. ...ight to be recorded. A spectrograph is sometimes called polychromator, as an analogy to monochromator. The star spectral classification and discovery of the main sequence, Hubble's law and the Hubble **sequence** were all made with spectrographs that used photographic paper. James Webb Space Telescope contains both a near-infrared spectrograph (NIRSpec) and a mid-infrared spectrograph (MIRI). An echelle-based...
12. ...buffer contained no data to be written, or when it was full of data during reading. As faster tape drives became available, despite being buffered, the drives started to suffer from the shoe-shining **sequence** of stop, rewind, start. Some newer drives have several speeds and implement algorithms that dynamically match the tape speed level to the computer's data rate. Example speed levels could be 50 percen...
13. ...olved. However, modern cosmology recognizes the Kelvin period in the early life of a star, during which it shines from gravitational energy (correctly calculated by Kelvin) before fusion and the main **sequence** begins. In the winter of 1860–61 Kelvin slipped on the ice while curling near his home at Netherhall and fractured his leg, causing him to miss the 1861 Manchester meeting of the British Association...
14. ...ions and laboratory experiments) predicts that the interaction of the artificial magnetosphere with the oncoming plasma wind creates an effective sail blocking area that transfers force as shown by a **sequence** of labeled arrows from the plasma wind, to the spacecraft's magnetic field, to the spacecraft's field source, which accelerates the spacecraft in the same direction as the plasma wind. These concepts...
15. ...certain loads. Variable-frequency drives and digital phase converters use power electronic devices to synthesize a balanced three-phase supply from single-phase input power. Verification of the phase **sequence** in a circuit is of considerable practical importance. Two sources of three-phase power must not be connected in parallel unless they have the same phase sequence, for example, when connecting a gener...
16. ...nput power. Verification of the phase sequence in a circuit is of considerable practical importance. Two sources of three-phase power must not be connected in parallel unless they have the same phase **sequence**, for example, when connecting a generator to an energized distribution network or when connecting two transformers in parallel. Otherwise, the interconnection will behave like a short circuit, and ex...
17. ...f rotation of three-phase motors can be reversed by interchanging any two phases; it may be impractical or harmful to test a machine by momentarily energizing the motor to observe its rotation. Phase **sequence** of two sources can be verified by measuring voltage between pairs of terminals and observing that terminals with very low voltage between them will have the same phase, whereas pairs that show a high...
18. ...e same phase, whereas pairs that show a higher voltage are on different phases. Where the absolute phase identity is not required, phase rotation test instruments can be used to identify the rotation **sequence** with one observation. The phase rotation test instrument may contain a miniature three-phase motor, whose direction of rotation can be directly observed through the instrument case. Another pattern u...
19. ...be connected to a de-energized three-phase motor and can detect the small voltages induced by residual magnetism, when the motor shaft is rotated by hand. A lamp or other indicator lights to show the **sequence** of voltages at the terminals for the given direction of shaft rotation. Conductors of a three-phase system are usually identified by a color code, to facilitate balanced loading and to assure the cor...
20. ...g relationships between many signals in a digital system. Presently, there are three distinct categories of logic analyzers available on the market: A logic analyzer can be triggered on a complicated **sequence** of digital events, then capture a large amount of digital data from the system under test (SUT). When logic analyzers first came into use, it was common to attach several hundred "clips" to a digital...
21. ...ecreases the low frequency gain of a system containing capacitively coupled units. Each coupling capacitor along with the input electrical impedance of the next stage forms a high-pass filter and the **sequence** of filters results in a cumulative filter with a cutoff frequency that may be higher than those of each individual filter. Coupling capacitors can also introduce nonlinear distortion at low frequenci...
22. ...using a Hermitian matrix (generally multiplied by a common phase factor). In fact, since matrix may be written as the product of unitary and positive Hermitian matrices, light propagation through any **sequence** of polarization-dependent optical components can be written as the product of these two basic types of transformations. In birefringent media there is no attenuation, but two modes accrue a different...
23. ...ts of distortion current on devices in a three-phase distribution network rely on the magnitude of certain order harmonics rather than the total harmonic distortion. For example, the triplen, or zero-**sequence**, harmonics (3rd, 9th, 15th, etc.) have the property of being in-phase when compared line-to-line. In a delta-wye transformer, these harmonics can result in circulating currents in the delta windings...
24. ...of the transformer. Eddy current losses generally increase as the square of the frequency, lowering the transformer's efficiency, dissipating additional heat, and reducing its service life. Negative-**sequence** harmonics (5th, 11th, 17th, etc.) combine 120 degrees out of phase, similarly to the fundamental harmonic but in a reversed sequence. In generators and motors, these currents produce magnetic fields...
25. ...ssipating additional heat, and reducing its service life. Negative-sequence harmonics (5th, 11th, 17th, etc.) combine 120 degrees out of phase, similarly to the fundamental harmonic but in a reversed **sequence**. In generators and motors, these currents produce magnetic fields which oppose the rotation of the shaft and sometimes result in damaging mechanical vibrations. The simplest way to control the harmon...
26. ...temperature of the stars if they were perfect black bodies. There is a rough correlation. For example, for a given "B-V" index measurement, the curves of both most common sequences of star (the main **sequence** and the supergiants) lie below the corresponding black-body "U-B" index that includes the ultraviolet spectrum, showing that both groupings of star emit less ultraviolet light than a black body with...
27. ...n be substituted for for all photon momentum terms which arise in course of the derivation below. The derivation which appears in Compton's paper is more terse, but follows the same logic in the same **sequence** as the following derivation. The conservation of energy formula_18 merely equates the sum of energies before and after scattering. Compton postulated that photons carry momentum; thus from the conser...
28. ...rials on the list. Johan Carl Wilcke published the first one in a 1757 paper. The series was expanded by Shaw and Henniker by including natural and synthetic polymers, and included alterations in the **sequence** depending on surface and environmental conditions. Lists vary somewhat as to the order of some materials. Another triboelectric series based on measuring the triboelectric charge density of materials...
29. ...supervisory computer. They employ standardized control programming languages (such as those under IEC 61131-3, a suite of five programming languages including function block, ladder, structured text, **sequence** function charts and instruction list), that are frequently used to create programs which run on these RTUs and PLCs. Unlike a procedural language like C or FORTRAN, IEC 61131-3 has minimal training r...
30. ...motor, the stepper motor may not rotate continuously; instead, it moves in steps—starting and then stopping—advancing from one position to the next as field windings are energized and de-energized in **sequence**. Depending on the sequence, the rotor may turn forwards or backwards, and it may change direction, stop, speed up or slow down at any time. Simple stepper motor drivers entirely energize or entirely...
31. ...y not rotate continuously; instead, it moves in steps—starting and then stopping—advancing from one position to the next as field windings are energized and de-energized in sequence. Depending on the **sequence**, the rotor may turn forwards or backwards, and it may change direction, stop, speed up or slow down at any time. Simple stepper motor drivers entirely energize or entirely de-energize the field windi...
32. ...at dates to 8700 BC. Evidence suggests that gold and meteoric iron (but not smelted iron) were the only metals used by humans before copper. The history of copper metallurgy is thought to follow this **sequence**: first, cold working of native copper, then annealing, smelting, and, finally, lost-wax casting. In southeastern Anatolia, all four of these techniques appear more or less simultaneously at the begin...
33. ...avy magnetic-influence sea mines in North Vietnam. The March 1989 geomagnetic storm caused the collapse of the Hydro-Québec power grid in seconds as equipment protection relays tripped in a cascading **sequence**. Six million people were left without power for nine hours. The storm caused auroras as far south as Texas and Florida. The storm causing this event was the result of a coronal mass ejected from the...
34. ...and 2 November, during which the second and third storms were initiated before the previous storm period had fully recovered. The minimum Dst values were −151, −353 and −383 nT. Another storm in this **sequence** occurred on 4–5 November with a minimum Dst of −69 nT. The last geomagnetic storm was weaker than the preceding storms, because the active region on the Sun had rotated beyond the meridian where the...
35. ...than the preceding storms, because the active region on the Sun had rotated beyond the meridian where the central portion CME created during the flare event passed to the side of the Earth. The whole **sequence** became known as the Halloween Solar Storm. The Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) operated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) was offline for approximately 30 hours due to the storm. The...
36. ...making them much less susceptible to damage due to geomagnetically induced current. However, a transformer that is subjected to this will act as an unbalanced load to the generator, causing negative **sequence** current in the stator and consequently rotor heating. A 2008 study by Metatech corporation concluded that a storm with a strength comparable to that of 1921 would destroy more than 300 transformers a...
37. ...e chain of events leading to contraction. In beta cells of the pancreas, they provoke release of insulin. Action potentials in neurons are also known as "nerve impulses" or "spikes", and the temporal **sequence** of action potentials generated by a neuron is called its "spike train". A neuron that emits an action potential, or nerve impulse, is often said to "fire". Action potentials are generated by special...
38. ...eference optical flat, any of several procedures may be adopted. One can observe how the fringes are displaced when one presses gently on the top flat. If one observes the fringes in white light, the **sequence** of colors becomes familiar with experience and aids in interpretation. Finally one may compare the appearance of the fringes as one moves ones head from a normal to an oblique viewing position. These...
39. ...ke detectors (americium), electron tubes, and gas lantern mantles (thorium). Of lesser magnitude, members of the public are exposed to radiation from the nuclear fuel cycle, which includes the entire **sequence** from processing uranium to the disposal of the spent fuel. The effects of such exposure have not been reliably measured due to the extremely low doses involved. Opponents use a cancer per dose model...
40. ...ne structures called polytypes. They are variations of the same chemical compound that are identical in two dimensions and differ in the third. Thus, they can be viewed as layers stacked in a certain **sequence**. Alpha silicon carbide (α-SiC) is the most commonly encountered polymorph, and is formed at temperatures greater than 1,700 °C and has a hexagonal crystal structure (similar to Wurtzite). The beta mo...
41. ...ormation to the motor controller. This allows for more precise motor control. Hall sensors in 3 or 4-pin brushless DC motors sense the position of the rotor and to switch the transistors in the right **sequence**. A Hall-effect thruster (HET) is a device that is used to propel some spacecraft, after it gets into orbit or farther out into space. In the HET, atoms are ionized and accelerated by an electric fiel...
42. ...Δ-Y, which adds a node, is often handy to pave the way for further simplification as well. Every two-terminal network represented by a planar graph can be reduced to a single equivalent resistor by a **sequence** of series, parallel, Y-Δ, and Δ-Y transformations. However, there are non-planar networks that cannot be simplified using these transformations, such as a regular square grid wrapped around a torus,...
43. ...ch other and the three complex impedances are the same, then the previous formulas reduce to the four following: formula_62 where for the last three equations, the first sign (+) is used if the phase **sequence** is positive/"abc" or the second sign (−) is used if the phase sequence is negative/"acb". Unintentional radiator In United States regulatory law, an unintentional radiator is any device that is desig...
44. ...us formulas reduce to the four following: formula_62 where for the last three equations, the first sign (+) is used if the phase sequence is positive/"abc" or the second sign (−) is used if the phase **sequence** is negative/"acb". Unintentional radiator In United States regulatory law, an unintentional radiator is any device that is designed to use radio frequency electrical signals within itself, or sends r...
45. ...ts in the test system, to which it is linked via a high-speed LAN-based trigger synchronization and inter-unit communication bus. Scripting is writing programs in a scripting language to coordinate a **sequence** of actions. This approach is optimized for small message transfers that are characteristic of test and measurement applications. With very little network overhead and a 100 Mbit/s data rate, it is si...
46. ...tively. A system configured on this type of platform can stand alone as a complete measurement and automation solution, with the master unit controlling sourcing, measuring, pass/fail decisions, test **sequence** flow control, binning, and the component handler or prober. Support for dedicated trigger lines means that synchronous operations between multiple instruments equipped with onboard Test Script Proces...
47. ...dable by the average worker. The solution that Ford Motor developed was a completely redesigned factory with machine tools and special purpose machines that were systematically positioned in the work **sequence**. All unnecessary human motions were eliminated by placing all work and tools within easy reach, and where practical on conveyors, forming the assembly line, the complete process being called mass pro...
48. ...ational, to prevent him from becoming "evil" in adulthood. However, her genetic tampering soon loses its effect when Magneto reactivates his powers since the very use of his powers causes his genetic **sequence** to realign and "reset" to its original state. Magneto is eventually restored to adulthood, but to his physical prime rather than his older, chronological age, by the alien Shi'ar agent Erik the Red....
49. ...lls the Spectre using the remaining material from the Spear of Destiny. Deadman, as the Question, reveals himself to Shazam and temporarily uses the magic word to strip him of his powers. This entire **sequence** of events is later uncovered as a ploy orchestrated by Raven and Neron, with the goal of redirecting Shazam's powers back to the Rock of Eternity, which Raven absorbs. Empowered by her natural abilit...
50. ...de brief "cameo" appearances in two 1990s TV series. Billy has a non-speaking cameo in the "" episode "Obsession", while live actors portraying Captain Marvel make "cameo" appearances in both a dream-**sequence** within an episode of "The Drew Carey Show", and in the Beastie Boys' music video for "Alive". In about 1943, a radio serial of Captain Marvel was briefly broadcast (possibly by either Mutual or NBC)...
51. ...1963) featured the debut of his socialite girlfriend and lab assistant Janet van Dyne, who adopted the costumed identity of the Wasp. She co-starred in Pym's subsequent appearances, and was a framing-**sequence** host for backup stories in the series. In September 1963, Lee and Kirby created the superhero title "The Avengers", and Ant-Man and Wasp were established in issue #1 as founding members of the eponym...
52. ...ion is the removal of a biological structure or functionality. Genetic ablation is another term for gene silencing, in which gene expression is abolished through the alteration or deletion of genetic **sequence** information. In cell ablation, individual cells in a population or culture are destroyed or removed. Both can be used as experimental tools, as in loss-of-function experiments. In medicine, ablation...
53. ..., EOG, EMG, EKG) and electromagnetic interference (e.g., line noise, fluorescent lamps) constitute the noise contribution to the recorded ERP. This noise obscures the signal of interest, which is the **sequence** of underlying ERPs under study. From an engineering point of view it is possible to define the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the recorded ERPs. Averaging increases the SNR of the recorded ERPs makin...
54. ...voluntary walking in stroke and spinal cord injury individuals. This system does not apply peroneal nerve stimulation to enable locomotion. Instead, it activates all relevant lower limb muscles in a **sequence** similar to the one that brain uses to enable locomotion. The hybrid assistive systems (HAS) and the RGO walking neuroprostheses are devices that also apply active and passive braces, respectively. Th...
55. ...long as the key is pressed the spark gap fires repetitively, creating a string of pulses of radio waves, so in a receiver the keypress sounds like a buzz; the entire Morse code message sounds like a **sequence** of buzzes separated by pauses. In low-power transmitters the key directly breaks the primary circuit of the supply transformer, while in high-power transmitters the key operates a heavy duty relay th...
56. ...e supply windings offline, albeit at 57.7% of total capacity. Harmonic current in the neutral may become very large if nonlinear loads are connected. In a star (wye) connected topology, with rotation **sequence** L1 - L2 - L3, the time-varying instantaneous voltages can be calculated for each phase A,C,B respectively by: where: The below images demonstrate how a system of six wires delivering three phases fro...
57. ...is greatly simplified by the use of the techniques of symmetrical components. An unbalanced system is analysed as the superposition of three balanced systems, each with the positive, negative or zero **sequence** of balanced voltages. When specifying wiring sizes in a three-phase system, we only need to know the magnitude of the phase and neutral currents. The neutral current can be determined by adding the t...
58. ...mage to contacts. Electrical resistance along the continuous electric arc creates heat, which ionizes more gas molecules (where the degree of ionization is determined by temperature), and as per this **sequence**: solid-liquid-gas-plasma; the gas is gradually turned into a thermal plasma. A thermal plasma is in thermal equilibrium; the temperature is relatively homogeneous throughout the atoms, molecules, ion...
59. ...Where a metal shield is present in the cable jacket, it must be terminated so no net sheath current passes through the ring, to ensure accuracy. Current transformers used to sense ground fault (zero **sequence**) currents, such as in a three-phase installation, may have three primary conductors passed through the ring. Only the net unbalanced current produces a secondary current - this can be used to detect...
60. ...m Systems in the UK. In the United States, police respond to at least 36million alarm activations each year, at an estimated annual cost of $1.8billion.  Depending upon the zone triggered, number and **sequence** of zones, time of day, and other factors, the alarm monitoring center may automatically initiate various actions. Central station operators might be instructed to call emergency services immediately,...
61. ...ncy) is aliased to a different frequency (thus distorting the original signal), since a DT signal can only support frequency components lower than the folding frequency. Let formula_116 represent the **sequence** formula_117 And let the shorter notation formula_118 represent formula_119 A discrete system transforms an input sequence, formula_118 into an output sequence, formula_121 In general, every element o...
62. ...cy components lower than the folding frequency. Let formula_116 represent the sequence formula_117 And let the shorter notation formula_118 represent formula_119 A discrete system transforms an input **sequence**, formula_118 into an output sequence, formula_121 In general, every element of the output can depend on every element of the input. Representing the transformation operator by formula_122, we can wri...
63. ...frequency. Let formula_116 represent the sequence formula_117 And let the shorter notation formula_118 represent formula_119 A discrete system transforms an input sequence, formula_118 into an output **sequence**, formula_121 In general, every element of the output can depend on every element of the input. Representing the transformation operator by formula_122, we can write: formula_123 Note that unless the...
64. ...output can depend on every element of the input. Representing the transformation operator by formula_122, we can write: formula_123 Note that unless the transform itself changes with "n", the output **sequence** is just constant, and the system is uninteresting. (Thus the subscript, "n".) In a typical system, "y"["n"] depends most heavily on the elements of "x" whose indices are near "n". For the special cas...
65. ...the subscript, "n".) In a typical system, "y"["n"] depends most heavily on the elements of "x" whose indices are near "n". For the special case of the Kronecker delta function, formula_124 the output **sequence** is the impulse response: formula_125 For a linear system, formula_122 must satisfy: And the time-invariance requirement is: In such a system, the impulse response, formula_127, characterizes the syst...
66. ...For a linear system, formula_122 must satisfy: And the time-invariance requirement is: In such a system, the impulse response, formula_127, characterizes the system completely. That is, for any input **sequence**, the output sequence can be calculated in terms of the input and the impulse response. To see how that is done, consider the identity: formula_128 which expresses formula_118 in terms of a sum of wei...
67. ...formula_122 must satisfy: And the time-invariance requirement is: In such a system, the impulse response, formula_127, characterizes the system completely. That is, for any input sequence, the output **sequence** can be calculated in terms of the input and the impulse response. To see how that is done, consider the identity: formula_128 which expresses formula_118 in terms of a sum of weighted delta functions...
68. ...ts in the test system, to which it is linked via a high-speed LAN-based trigger synchronization and inter-unit communication bus. Scripting is writing programs in a scripting language to coordinate a **sequence** of actions. This approach is optimized for small message transfers that are characteristic of test and measurement applications. With very little network overhead and a 100 Mbit/sec data rate, it is...
69. ...tively. A system configured on this type of platform can stand alone as a complete measurement and automation solution, with the master unit controlling sourcing, measuring, pass/fail decisions, test **sequence** flow control, binning, and the component handler or prober. Support for dedicated trigger lines means that synchronous operations between multiple instruments equipped with onboard Test Script Proces...
70. ...llar metallicity and surface gravity. The effective temperature of a star indicates the amount of heat that the star radiates per unit of surface area. From the hottest surfaces to the coolest is the **sequence** of stellar classifications known as O, B, A, F, G, K, M. A red star could be a tiny red dwarf, a star of feeble energy production and a small surface or a bloated giant or even supergiant star such a...
71. ...character have received positive responses. Created as the heroine of "Devil May Cry", her long hair caused extensive problems for designers when creating her 3D model, most notably during the ending **sequence**. Motion designer Tomoya Othsubo said making Trish's hairstyle was challenging due its movements in-game; the designers had to add multiple joints to her strands of hair, a process which Othsubo descr...
72. ...will exist at a particular potential relative to the anode, which is dependent on the quantity of CaO present in CaCl. The electrocalciothermic reduction mechanism may be represented by the following **sequence** of reactions, where "M" represents a metal to be reduced (typically titanium). When this reaction takes place on its own, it is referred to as the "calciothermic reduction" (or, more generally, an ex...
73. ...method of use of symmetrical components for three-phase systems that greatly simplified calculations over the original Fortescue paper. In a three-phase system, one set of phasors has the same phase **sequence** as the system under study (positive sequence; say ABC), the second set has the reverse phase sequence (negative sequence; ACB), and in the third set the phasors A, B and C are in phase with each othe...
74. ...three-phase systems that greatly simplified calculations over the original Fortescue paper. In a three-phase system, one set of phasors has the same phase sequence as the system under study (positive **sequence**; say ABC), the second set has the reverse phase sequence (negative sequence; ACB), and in the third set the phasors A, B and C are in phase with each other (zero sequence, the common-mode signal). Es...
75. ...over the original Fortescue paper. In a three-phase system, one set of phasors has the same phase sequence as the system under study (positive sequence; say ABC), the second set has the reverse phase **sequence** (negative sequence; ACB), and in the third set the phasors A, B and C are in phase with each other (zero sequence, the common-mode signal). Essentially, this method converts three unbalanced phases i...
76. ...ortescue paper. In a three-phase system, one set of phasors has the same phase sequence as the system under study (positive sequence; say ABC), the second set has the reverse phase sequence (negative **sequence**; ACB), and in the third set the phasors A, B and C are in phase with each other (zero sequence, the common-mode signal). Essentially, this method converts three unbalanced phases into three independe...
77. ...system under study (positive sequence; say ABC), the second set has the reverse phase sequence (negative sequence; ACB), and in the third set the phasors A, B and C are in phase with each other (zero **sequence**, the common-mode signal). Essentially, this method converts three unbalanced phases into three independent sources, which makes asymmetric fault analysis more tractable. By expanding a one-line diagr...
78. ...). Essentially, this method converts three unbalanced phases into three independent sources, which makes asymmetric fault analysis more tractable. By expanding a one-line diagram to show the positive **sequence**, negative sequence, and zero sequence impedances of generators, transformers and other devices including overhead lines and cables, analysis of such unbalanced conditions as a single line to ground s...
79. ...s method converts three unbalanced phases into three independent sources, which makes asymmetric fault analysis more tractable. By expanding a one-line diagram to show the positive sequence, negative **sequence**, and zero sequence impedances of generators, transformers and other devices including overhead lines and cables, analysis of such unbalanced conditions as a single line to ground short-circuit fault...
80. ...hree unbalanced phases into three independent sources, which makes asymmetric fault analysis more tractable. By expanding a one-line diagram to show the positive sequence, negative sequence, and zero **sequence** impedances of generators, transformers and other devices including overhead lines and cables, analysis of such unbalanced conditions as a single line to ground short-circuit fault is greatly simplifi...
81. ...nced conditions as a single line to ground short-circuit fault is greatly simplified. The technique can also be extended to higher order phase systems. Physically, in a three phase system, a positive **sequence** set of currents produces a normal rotating field, a negative sequence set produces a field with the opposite rotation, and the zero sequence set produces a field that oscillates but does not rotate b...
82. ...tly simplified. The technique can also be extended to higher order phase systems. Physically, in a three phase system, a positive sequence set of currents produces a normal rotating field, a negative **sequence** set produces a field with the opposite rotation, and the zero sequence set produces a field that oscillates but does not rotate between phase windings. Since these effects can be detected physically...
83. ...e systems. Physically, in a three phase system, a positive sequence set of currents produces a normal rotating field, a negative sequence set produces a field with the opposite rotation, and the zero **sequence** set produces a field that oscillates but does not rotate between phase windings. Since these effects can be detected physically with sequence filters, the mathematical tool became the basis for the d...
84. ...produces a field with the opposite rotation, and the zero sequence set produces a field that oscillates but does not rotate between phase windings. Since these effects can be detected physically with **sequence** filters, the mathematical tool became the basis for the design of protective relays, which used negative-sequence voltages and currents as a reliable indicator of fault conditions. Such relays may be...
85. ...ot rotate between phase windings. Since these effects can be detected physically with sequence filters, the mathematical tool became the basis for the design of protective relays, which used negative-**sequence** voltages and currents as a reliable indicator of fault conditions. Such relays may be used to trip circuit breakers or take other steps to protect electrical systems. The analytical technique was ado...
86. ...e, and after World War II it became an accepted method for asymmetric fault analysis. As shown in the figure to the above right, the three sets of symmetrical components (positive, negative, and zero **sequence**) add up to create the system of three unbalanced phases as pictured in the bottom of the diagram. The imbalance between phases arises because of the difference in magnitude and phase shift between th...
87. ...of the diagram. The imbalance between phases arises because of the difference in magnitude and phase shift between the sets of vectors. Notice that the colors (red, blue, and yellow) of the separate **sequence** vectors correspond to three different phases (A, B, and C, for example). To arrive at the final plot, the sum of vectors of each phase is calculated. This resulting vector is the effective phasor rep...
88. ...e phase voltage components can be written as and decomposing the vector into three symmetrical components gives where the subscripts 0, 1, and 2 refer respectively to the zero, positive, and negative **sequence** components. The sequence components differ only by their phase angles, which are symmetrical and so are formula_3 radians or 120°. Define a phasor rotation operator formula_4, which rotates a phasor...
89. ...s can be written as and decomposing the vector into three symmetrical components gives where the subscripts 0, 1, and 2 refer respectively to the zero, positive, and negative sequence components. The **sequence** components differ only by their phase angles, which are symmetrical and so are formula_3 radians or 120°. Define a phasor rotation operator formula_4, which rotates a phasor vector counterclockwise b...
90. ...la_3 radians or 120°. Define a phasor rotation operator formula_4, which rotates a phasor vector counterclockwise by 120 degrees when multiplied by it: Note that formula_6 so that formula_7. The zero **sequence** components have equal magnitude and are in phase with each other, therefore: and the other sequence components have the same magnitude, but their phase angles differ by 120°. If the original unbalanc...
91. ...nterclockwise by 120 degrees when multiplied by it: Note that formula_6 so that formula_7. The zero sequence components have equal magnitude and are in phase with each other, therefore: and the other **sequence** components have the same magnitude, but their phase angles differ by 120°. If the original unbalanced set of voltage phasors have positive or "abc" phase sequence, then: meaning that Thus, where If i...
92. ...each other, therefore: and the other sequence components have the same magnitude, but their phase angles differ by 120°. If the original unbalanced set of voltage phasors have positive or "abc" phase **sequence**, then: meaning that Thus, where If instead the original unbalanced set of voltage phasors have negative or "acb" phase sequence, the following matrix can be similarly derived: The sequence components...
93. ...original unbalanced set of voltage phasors have positive or "abc" phase sequence, then: meaning that Thus, where If instead the original unbalanced set of voltage phasors have negative or "acb" phase **sequence**, the following matrix can be similarly derived: The sequence components are derived from the analysis equation where The above two equations tell how to derive symmetrical components corresponding to...
94. ...abc" phase sequence, then: meaning that Thus, where If instead the original unbalanced set of voltage phasors have negative or "acb" phase sequence, the following matrix can be similarly derived: The **sequence** components are derived from the analysis equation where The above two equations tell how to derive symmetrical components corresponding to an asymmetrical set of three phasors: Visually, if the origi...
95. ...e symmetrical components corresponding to an asymmetrical set of three phasors: Visually, if the original components are symmetrical, sequences 0 and 2 will each form a triangle, summing to zero, and **sequence** 1 components will sum to a straight line. The phasors formula_20 form a closed triangle (e.g., outer voltages or line to line voltages). To find the synchronous and inverse components of the phases,...
96. ...such, symmetrical components can be calculated for any poly-phase system. Harmonics often occur in power systems as a consequence of non-linear loads. Each order of harmonics contributes to different **sequence** components. The fundamental and harmonics of order formula_21 will contribute to the positive sequence component. Harmonics of order formula_22 will contribute to the negative sequence. Harmonics of...
97. ...r systems as a consequence of non-linear loads. Each order of harmonics contributes to different sequence components. The fundamental and harmonics of order formula_21 will contribute to the positive **sequence** component. Harmonics of order formula_22 will contribute to the negative sequence. Harmonics of order formula_23 contribute to the zero sequence. Note that the rules above are only applicable if the...
98. ...s to different sequence components. The fundamental and harmonics of order formula_21 will contribute to the positive sequence component. Harmonics of order formula_22 will contribute to the negative **sequence**. Harmonics of order formula_23 contribute to the zero sequence. Note that the rules above are only applicable if the phase values (or distortion) in each phase are exactly the same. Please further no...
99. ...cs of order formula_21 will contribute to the positive sequence component. Harmonics of order formula_22 will contribute to the negative sequence. Harmonics of order formula_23 contribute to the zero **sequence**. Note that the rules above are only applicable if the phase values (or distortion) in each phase are exactly the same. Please further note that even harmonics are not common in power systems. The zer...
100. ...Note that the rules above are only applicable if the phase values (or distortion) in each phase are exactly the same. Please further note that even harmonics are not common in power systems. The zero **sequence** represents the component of the unbalanced phasors that is equal in magnitude and phase. Because they are in phase, zero sequence currents flowing through an n-phase network will sum to n times the m...
101. ...er note that even harmonics are not common in power systems. The zero sequence represents the component of the unbalanced phasors that is equal in magnitude and phase. Because they are in phase, zero **sequence** currents flowing through an n-phase network will sum to n times the magnitude of the individual zero sequence currents components. Under normal operating conditions this sum is small enough to be neg...
102. ...unbalanced phasors that is equal in magnitude and phase. Because they are in phase, zero sequence currents flowing through an n-phase network will sum to n times the magnitude of the individual zero **sequence** currents components. Under normal operating conditions this sum is small enough to be negligible. However, during large zero sequence events such as lightning strikes, this nonzero sum of currents ca...
103. ...network will sum to n times the magnitude of the individual zero sequence currents components. Under normal operating conditions this sum is small enough to be negligible. However, during large zero **sequence** events such as lightning strikes, this nonzero sum of currents can lead to a larger current flowing through the neutral conductor than the individual phase conductors. Because neutral conductors are...
104. ...neutral conductor than the individual phase conductors. Because neutral conductors are typically not larger than individual phase conductors, and are often smaller than these conductors, a large zero **sequence** component can lead to overheating of neutral conductors and to fires. One way to prevent large zero sequence currents is to use a delta connection, which appears as an open circuit to zero sequence c...
105. ...han individual phase conductors, and are often smaller than these conductors, a large zero sequence component can lead to overheating of neutral conductors and to fires. One way to prevent large zero **sequence** currents is to use a delta connection, which appears as an open circuit to zero sequence currents. For this reason, most transmission, and much sub-transmission is implemented using delta. Much distr...
106. ...o sequence component can lead to overheating of neutral conductors and to fires. One way to prevent large zero sequence currents is to use a delta connection, which appears as an open circuit to zero **sequence** currents. For this reason, most transmission, and much sub-transmission is implemented using delta. Much distribution is also implemented using delta, although "old work" distribution systems have oc...
107. ...eems constant over time, but cannot perceive the instantaneous color that varies rapidly in time. In other words, CSK transmission maintains a constant time-averaged luminous flux, even as its symbol **sequence** varies rapidly in chromaticity. Wu–Yang monopole The Wu–Yang monopole was the first solution (found in 1968 by Tai Tsun Wu and Chen Ning Yang) to the Yang–Mills field equations. It describes a magnet...
108. ...a summability kernel for the Fourier series of a function in "L"(T) . Let "f" ∈ "L"(T) have Fourier series {"f"}. After the Fourier transform, convolution with "P"("θ") becomes multiplication by the **sequence** {"r"} ∈ "ℓ"(Z). Taking the inverse Fourier transform of the resulting product {"rf"} gives the Abel means "Af" of "f": formula_4 Rearranging this absolutely convergent series shows that "f" is the bo...
109. ...e, and then a bounty hunter, before distrust of his past eventually led him to go to South America, where he continued to fight crime. When "The Steel Claw" was reprinted by Quality Comics, a framing **sequence** featured Crandell (called Randell in this version) as an aging secret agent reflecting on his early criminal career. His appearance in "Zenith" saw him disabled during battle, eventually dying from b...
110. ...-work to breathe. Rodriguez also colors this issue, and his vibrant hues do a lot to enhance the story. Whether it's the moody glow of a fire in the early pages or the eclectic hues seen in the final **sequence**, Rodriguez's work leaves a strong impression. Granted, the cover is a little wonky in terms Jessica's posture and proportions, but generally the figure work is much stronger inside the comic. The onl...
111. ...icients formula_38 and the system equation is satisfied in the weak sense if for every base function formula_39 the variational equation is fulfilled. This variational equation represents an infinite **sequence** of scalar equations since it has to be tested for the infinite number of base functions formula_41 in formula_42. The Galerkin approach to the harmonic balance is to project the candidate set as well...
112. ...ked Kako. In a moment of rage, Aquaman frees himself but is then distracted by Mera's attack, causing Ocean Master, Mera, and Aqualad to escape during the ensuing chaos triggered by the self-destruct **sequence** of the ship. Ocean Master clashed with the JLA again when he attempted to claim the remains of Atlantis following Aquaman's apparent death in the 2001 storyline "Our Worlds At War". Ocean Master woul...
113. ...us Magnetobacterium bavaricum", a Nitrospira. The arrangement of flagella differs and can be polar, bipolar, or in tufts. The first phylogenetic analysis on magnetotactic bacteria using 16S rRNA gene **sequence** comparisons was performed by P. Eden et al. in 1991. Another trait that shows considerable diversity is the arrangement of magnetosomes inside the bacterial cell. In the majority of MTB, the magnetos...
114. ...ical control of the above-mentioned processes. After the genome of several MTB species had been sequenced, a comparative analysis of the proteins involved in the formation of the BMP became possible. **Sequence** homology with proteins belonging to the ubiquitous cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) family and the "Htr-like" serine proteases has been found. While the first group is exclusively dedicated to the...
115. ...ns, while several other MM proteins contain tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domains. The TPR domains are characterized by a folding consisting of two α-helices and include a highly conserved consensus **sequence** of 8 amino acids (of the 34 possible), which is the most common in nature. Apart from these amino acids, the remainder of the structure is found to be specialised in relation to its functional signif...
116. ...ctions, as well as TPR-nonTPR interactions, have been reported. The PDZ domains are structures that consist of 6 β-filaments and 2 α-helices that recognise the C-terminal amino acids of proteins in a **sequence**-specific manner. Usually, the third residue from the C-terminal is phosphorylated, preventing interaction with the PDZ domain. The only conserved residues in these structures are those involved in th...
117. ...asm, where it is cleaved. The ferric ions must then be converted into the ferrous form (Fe), to be accumulated within the BMP; this is achieved by means of a transmembrane transporter, which exhibits **sequence** homology with a Na/H antiporter. Furthermore, the complex is a H/Fe antiporter, which transports ions via the proton gradient. These transmembrane transporters are localised both in the cytoplasmic m...
118. ...stimuli differed depending on whether the stimuli had meaning or not. They showed subjects two kinds of visual stimuli: numbers and flashes of light. Subjects viewed these stimuli one at a time in a **sequence**. For every two numbers, the subjects were required to make simple decisions, such as telling which of the two numbers was numerically smaller or larger, which came first or second in the sequence, or...
119. ...n a sequence. For every two numbers, the subjects were required to make simple decisions, such as telling which of the two numbers was numerically smaller or larger, which came first or second in the **sequence**, or whether they were equal. When examining evoked potentials to these stimuli (i.e., ERPs), Chapman and Bragdon found that both the numbers and the flashes elicited the expected sensory responses (e...
120. ...y (helical, vertical) coil to primary (poloidal, toroidal) coil currents, resulting in a finely tunable magnetic geometry. Slight variation in the current ratio between shots (plasma discharges) in a **sequence** corresponds to a high resolution parameter scan through magnetic configurations (i.e.: rotational transform profile, magnetic well). The programmable control system allows for repetition rates of aro...
121. ...series and the sequel comics, she is shown to be capable of highly advanced firebending, producing hotter blue flames as well as lightning. Since she is the shadowed firebender in the series' opening **sequence** (though she is depicted bending red fire instead of her signature blue), Azula appears at the beginning of every episode of "". In the first season, she makes her first appearance in a flashback duri...
122. ..., and were connected through two additional terminals at the top corners of the front panel. This feature was continued in the Model 8 and, with an increase to 3000 V to match their 1 - 3 - 10 ranges **sequence**, in the Model 9, Marks II and IV and the Model 8 Mark V. The 3000 V ranges were deleted in the Model 8 Marks 6 and 7 due to concerns for compliance with contemporary safety standards. This also led t...
123. ...her hand, the dynamics of the models solvable by the Bethe ansatz is two-body reducible: the many-body scattering matrix is a product of two-body scattering matrices. Many-body collisions happen as a **sequence** of two-body collisions and the many-body wave function can be represented in a form which contains only elements from two-body wave functions. The many-body scattering matrix is equal to the product...
124. ...relative to the receiver centre frequency) time-varying amplitude of the impulsive oscillation. The following lossy integrator has a rapid rise time and longer fall time, so the measured output for a **sequence** of impulses is higher when the pulse repetition rate is higher. The quasi-peak detector is calibrated to produce the same output level as a peak-power detector when the input is a continuous wave ton...
125. ...gnal by holding each sample value for one sample interval. It has several applications in electrical communication. A zero-order hold reconstructs the following continuous-time waveform from a sample **sequence** "x"["n"], assuming one sample per time interval "T": formula_1 where formula_2 is the rectangular function. The function formula_3 is depicted in Figure 1, and formula_4 is the piecewise-constant sig...
126. ...ed in Figure 2. The equation above for the output of the ZOH can also be modeled as the output of a linear time-invariant filter with impulse response equal to a rect function, and with input being a **sequence** of dirac impulses scaled to the sample values. The filter can then be analyzed in the frequency domain, for comparison with other reconstruction methods such as the Whittaker–Shannon interpolation fo...
127. ...such as the Whittaker–Shannon interpolation formula suggested by the Nyquist–Shannon sampling theorem, or such as the first-order hold or linear interpolation between sample values. In this method, a **sequence** of Dirac impulses, "x"("t"), representing the discrete samples, "x"["n"], is low-pass filtered to recover a continuous-time signal, "x"("t"). Even though this is "not" what a DAC does in reality, the...
128. ...samples, "x"["n"], is low-pass filtered to recover a continuous-time signal, "x"("t"). Even though this is "not" what a DAC does in reality, the DAC output can be modeled by applying the hypothetical **sequence** of dirac impulses, "x"("t"), to a linear, time-invariant filter with such characteristics (which, for an LTI system, are fully described by the impulse response) so that each input impulse results in...
129. ...T", resulting in a low-pass filter model with a DC gain of "T", and hence dependent on the units of measurement of time. The zero-order hold is the hypothetical filter or LTI system that converts the **sequence** of modulated Dirac impulses "x"("t")to the piecewise-constant signal (shown in Figure 2): formula_7 resulting in an effective impulse response (shown in Figure 4) of: formula_8 The effective frequenc...
130. ...gnal processing. The Laplace transform transfer function of the ZOH is found by substituting "s" = "i" 2 "π" "f": formula_12 The fact that practical digital-to-analog converters (DAC) do not output a **sequence** of dirac impulses, "x"("t") (that, if ideally low-pass filtered, would result in the unique underlying bandlimited signal before sampling), but instead output a sequence of rectangular pulses, "x"("t...
131. ...verters (DAC) do not output a sequence of dirac impulses, "x"("t") (that, if ideally low-pass filtered, would result in the unique underlying bandlimited signal before sampling), but instead output a **sequence** of rectangular pulses, "x"("t") (a piecewise constant function), means that there is an inherent effect of the ZOH on the effective frequency response of the DAC, resulting in a mild roll-off of gain...
132. ...ar approximation to the original signal that was sampled. A mathematical model such as FOH (or, more commonly, the zero-order hold) is necessary because, in the sampling and reconstruction theorem, a **sequence** of Dirac impulses, "x"("t"), representing the discrete samples, "x"("nT"), is low-pass filtered to recover the original signal that was sampled, "x"("t"). However, outputting a sequence of Dirac impu...
133. ...on theorem, a sequence of Dirac impulses, "x"("t"), representing the discrete samples, "x"("nT"), is low-pass filtered to recover the original signal that was sampled, "x"("t"). However, outputting a **sequence** of Dirac impulses is impractical. Devices can be implemented, using a conventional DAC and some linear analog circuitry, to reconstruct the piecewise linear output for either predictive or delayed FO...
134. ..., to reconstruct the piecewise linear output for either predictive or delayed FOH. Even though this is "not" what is physically done, an identical output can be generated by applying the hypothetical **sequence** of Dirac impulses, "x"("t"), to a linear time-invariant system, otherwise known as a linear filter with such characteristics (which, for an LTI system, are fully described by the impulse response) so...
135. ...are used in many experiments, controls, and processes where electronic timing of a single event or multiple events to a standard timing reference is needed. The digital delay generator may initiate a **sequence** of events or be triggered by an event. What differentiates it from ordinary electronic timing is the synchronicity of its outputs to each other and the initiating event. A time-to-digital converter d...
136. ...soil type sensitivity by using a high frequency. Mismatch negativity The mismatch negativity (MMN) or mismatch field (MMF) is a component of the event-related potential (ERP) to an odd stimulus in a **sequence** of stimuli. It arises from electrical activity in the brain and is studied within the field of cognitive neuroscience and psychology. It can occur in any sensory system, but has most frequently been...
137. ...can occur in any sensory system, but has most frequently been studied for hearing and for vision, in which case it is abbreviated to vMMN. The (v)MMN occurs after an infrequent change in a repetitive **sequence** of stimuli (sometimes the entire sequence is called an "oddball sequence".) For example, a rare deviant (d) stimulus can be interspersed among a series of frequent standard (s) stimuli (e.g., "s s s...
138. ...ost frequently been studied for hearing and for vision, in which case it is abbreviated to vMMN. The (v)MMN occurs after an infrequent change in a repetitive sequence of stimuli (sometimes the entire **sequence** is called an "oddball sequence".) For example, a rare deviant (d) stimulus can be interspersed among a series of frequent standard (s) stimuli (e.g., "s s s s s s s s s d s s s s s s d s s s d s s s...
139. ...hearing and for vision, in which case it is abbreviated to vMMN. The (v)MMN occurs after an infrequent change in a repetitive sequence of stimuli (sometimes the entire sequence is called an "oddball **sequence**".) For example, a rare deviant (d) stimulus can be interspersed among a series of frequent standard (s) stimuli (e.g., "s s s s s s s s s d s s s s s s d s s s d s s s s"...). In hearing, a deviant s...
140. ...sound can differ from the standards in one or more perceptual features such as pitch, duration, loudness, or location. The MMN can be elicited regardless of whether someone is paying attention to the **sequence**. During auditory sequences, a person can be reading or watching a silent subtitled movie, yet still show a clear MMN. In the case of visual stimuli, the MMN occurs after an infrequent change in a rep...
141. ...auditory sequences, a person can be reading or watching a silent subtitled movie, yet still show a clear MMN. In the case of visual stimuli, the MMN occurs after an infrequent change in a repetitive **sequence** of images. MMN refers to the mismatch response in electroencephalography (EEG); MMF or MMNM refer to the mismatch response in magnetoencephalography (MEG). The auditory MMN was discovered in 1978 by...
142. ...erlands. The first report of a visual MMN was in 1990 by Rainer Cammer. For a history of the development of the visual MMN, see Pazo-Alvarez et al. (2003). The MMN is a response to a deviant within a **sequence** of otherwise regular stimuli; thus, in an experimental setting, it is produced when stimuli are presented in a many-to-one ratio; for example, in a sequence of sounds "s s s s s s s d s s s s d s s s...
143. ...he MMN is a response to a deviant within a sequence of otherwise regular stimuli; thus, in an experimental setting, it is produced when stimuli are presented in a many-to-one ratio; for example, in a **sequence** of sounds "s s s s s s s d s s s s d s s s...", the "d" is the deviant or oddball stimulus, and will elicit an MMN response. The mismatch negativity occurs even if the subject is not consciously payi...
144. ...y does not depend on the quantum number formula_20, so there will be a finite number of degeneracies (If the particle is placed in an unconfined space, this degeneracy will correspond to a continuous **sequence** of formula_21). The value of formula_22 is continuous if the particle is unconfined in the z-direction and discrete if the particle is bounded in the z-direction also. Each set of wave functions with...
145. ...}\right)}</math> where the sum runs over all amino acid pairs formula_23 (with formula_24) and formula_25 is their corresponding distance. In many studies formula_11 does not depend on the amino acid **sequence**. Intuitively, it is clear that a low value for formula_22 indicates that the set of distances in a structure is more likely in proteins than in the reference state. However, the physical meaning of t...
146. ...s in the construction of the coarse grained ROSETTA energy function. According to Bayesian probability calculus, the conditional probability formula_40 of a structure formula_41, given the amino acid **sequence** formula_42, can be written as: formula_44 is proportional to the product of the likelihood formula_45 times the prior formula_46. By assuming that the likelihood can be approximated as a product of p...
147. ...he current to maintain the charge is so low that some systems apply the pre-charge at all times other than when charging batteries, while more complex systems apply pre-charge as part of the starting **sequence** and will defer main contactor closure until the pre-charge voltage level is detected as sufficiently high. Interface conditions for electromagnetic fields Interface conditions describe the behaviour...
148. ...evels on new transformers. On 13 March 1989, a severe geomagnetic storm caused the collapse of the Hydro-Québec power grid in a matter of seconds as equipment protective relays tripped in a cascading **sequence** of events. Six million people were left without power for nine hours, with significant economic loss. Since 1989, power companies in North America, the United Kingdom, Northern Europe, and elsewhere...
149. ...with synthetic inertia) then only two IGBTs are needed per capacitor level. If a DC bus is not needed, and there are benefits to connecting the three phases into a delta arrangement to eliminate zero **sequence** harmonics, four IGBTs can be used to surround the capacitor to bypass or switch it in at either polarity. As a STATCOM's VSC operation is based on changing current flow to affect voltage, its voltage...
150. ...reate the "perfect little girl", and their many superpowers were granted by the accidental addition of "Chemical X". Each episode of the 1998 television series briefly depicts this event in its title **sequence**, and is further explored in the prequel "The Powerpuff Girls Movie" (2002). In the original short from which "The Powerpuff Girls" derive (titled "Whoopass Stew!"), the substance that accidentally cr...
151. ...mption of such measurements is the concentration on one individual impulse. If one measures simultaneously several pulses, interference takes place with a beat frequency equal to the inversal average **sequence** time of the pulses. The signal-to-noise ratio determines the sensibility and sensitivity of telecommunication systems (e.g., radio receivers). An analog signal must clearly exceed the noise amplitude...
152. ...to their resting state, the red pilot light is ON, and the green switches OFF. In many cases, it is possible to design a relay logic diagram directly from the narrative description of a control event **sequence**. In general, the following suggestions apply to designing a relay logic diagram: 1. Define the process to be controlled. 2. Draw a sketch of the operation process. Make sure all the components of the...
153. ...gning a relay logic diagram: 1. Define the process to be controlled. 2. Draw a sketch of the operation process. Make sure all the components of the system are present in the drawing. 3. Determine the **sequence** of operations to be performed. List the sequence of operational steps in as much detail as possible. Write out the sequence in sentences, or put them in table form. 4. Write the relay logic diagram f...
154. ...s to be controlled. 2. Draw a sketch of the operation process. Make sure all the components of the system are present in the drawing. 3. Determine the sequence of operations to be performed. List the **sequence** of operational steps in as much detail as possible. Write out the sequence in sentences, or put them in table form. 4. Write the relay logic diagram from the sequence of operations. A major applicati...
155. ...l the components of the system are present in the drawing. 3. Determine the sequence of operations to be performed. List the sequence of operational steps in as much detail as possible. Write out the **sequence** in sentences, or put them in table form. 4. Write the relay logic diagram from the sequence of operations. A major application of relay logic is the control of routing and signalling on railways. Thi...
156. ...ations to be performed. List the sequence of operational steps in as much detail as possible. Write out the sequence in sentences, or put them in table form. 4. Write the relay logic diagram from the **sequence** of operations. A major application of relay logic is the control of routing and signalling on railways. This safety critical application uses interlocking to ensure conflicting routes can never be se...
157. ...eated to tens of millions of kelvins, and the particles are accelerated away from the star's surface at extreme velocities. Surface activity appears to be related to the age and rotation rate of main-**sequence** stars. Young stars with a rapid rate of rotation exhibit strong activity. By contrast middle-aged, Sun-like stars with a slow rate of rotation show low levels of activity that varies in cycles. Some...
158. ...s the rotation rate slows, so too does the angular deceleration. By this means, a star will gradually approach, but never quite reach, the state of zero rotation. A T Tauri star is a type of pre-main-**sequence** star that is being heated through gravitational contraction and has not yet begun to burn hydrogen at its core. They are variable stars that are magnetically active. The magnetic field of these stars...
159. ...bility Simulation) to ensure the power system meets reliability criteria (a loss of load expectation (LOLE) of no greater than 0.1 days per year). Further, a GE software package called PSLF (Positive **Sequence** Load Flow), Siemens software packages called PSSE (Power System Simulation for Engineering) as well as PSS SINCAL (Siemens Network Calculator), and Electrical Transient Analyzer Program (ETAP) by Ope...
160. ...magnetic flux , which depends on parameters of the system. Physically, such vortices may appear at the grain boundary between two d-wave superconductors, which often looks like a regular or irregular **sequence** of 0 and π facets. One can also construct an artificial array of short 0 and π facets to achieve the same effect. These splintered vortices are solitons. They are able to move and preserve their shap...
161. ...ject, they are so coarse that they cannot be used to detect the "orientation" or "direction" of an object. One of the methods to thrive for sufficient operational suitability is "tracking". Whether a **sequence** of locations determined form a trajectory from the first to the most actual location. Statistical methods then serve for smoothing the locations determined in a track resembling the physical capabili...
162. ...st be applied, when a target moves and also for a resident target, to compensate erratic measures. Otherwise the single resident location or even the followed trajectory would compose of an itinerant **sequence** of jumps. In most applications the population of targets is larger than just one. Hence the IPS must serve a proper specific identification for each observed target and must be capable to segregate a...
163. ...ements to cause a disconnection of the supply within the time limit specified by standards Insulation resistance testing Polarity test: a test to check that the connections are connected in the right **sequence** RCD testing: on modern electrical systems RCD's and RCBO's are regularly fitted, these devices react to electricity leaking from the circuit. Leakage may happen when a person touches live parts, whic...
164. ...phase machines, where the windings are (electrically) 120° apart. The 3-phase machines have major advantages of the single-phase ones: The winding phases of the 3-phase motor must be energized in a "**sequence**" for a motor to rotate, for example the phase V lagging phase U by 120°, and phase W lagging the phase V (U > V > W, normal phase rotation, positive sequence). If the sequence is reversed (W < V < U)...
165. ...the 3-phase motor must be energized in a "sequence" for a motor to rotate, for example the phase V lagging phase U by 120°, and phase W lagging the phase V (U > V > W, normal phase rotation, positive **sequence**). If the sequence is reversed (W < V < U), the motor will rotate in the opposite direction (negative sequence). The common current through all three windings is called zero sequence. Any combination...
166. ...must be energized in a "sequence" for a motor to rotate, for example the phase V lagging phase U by 120°, and phase W lagging the phase V (U > V > W, normal phase rotation, positive sequence). If the **sequence** is reversed (W < V < U), the motor will rotate in the opposite direction (negative sequence). The common current through all three windings is called zero sequence. Any combination of the AC currents...
167. ...se U by 120°, and phase W lagging the phase V (U > V > W, normal phase rotation, positive sequence). If the sequence is reversed (W < V < U), the motor will rotate in the opposite direction (negative **sequence**). The common current through all three windings is called zero sequence. Any combination of the AC currents in the three windings can be expressed as a sum of three symmetrical currents, correspondin...
168. ...otation, positive sequence). If the sequence is reversed (W < V < U), the motor will rotate in the opposite direction (negative sequence). The common current through all three windings is called zero **sequence**. Any combination of the AC currents in the three windings can be expressed as a sum of three symmetrical currents, corresponding to positive, negative, and zero sequences. In "electrostatic machines"...
169. ...uation length of 14.5 cm). Very weak light absorption, in the visible region, by liquid water has been measured using an integrating cavity absorption meter (ICAM). The absorption was attributed to a **sequence** of overtone and combination bands whose intensity decreases at each step, giving rise to an absolute minimum at 418 nm, at which wavelength the attenuation coefficient is about 0.0044 m, which is an...
170. ...rks and other battery operated systems. Daisy chain (electrical engineering) In electrical and electronic engineering, a daisy chain is a wiring scheme in which multiple devices are wired together in **sequence** or in a ring, similar to a garland of daisy flowers. Daisy chains may be used for power, analog signals, digital data, or a combination thereof. The term "daisy chain" may refer either to large scale...
171. ...ticles, the more significant the antimicrobial effect. Other diagnostic uses can be achieved by conjugation of the nanoparticles with oligonucleotides that can either be complementary to a DNA or RNA **sequence** of interest to detect them, such as pathogenic DNA or products of DNA amplification reactions in the presence of pathogenic DNA, or an aptamer recognizing a molecule of interest. This can lead to det...
172. ...e primarily characterized by a number of digital channels, a maximum rate and the supported voltage standards. Most digital pattern generator add features such as the ability to generate a repetitive **sequence** or a digital clock signal at a specified frequency, the ability to use an external clock input and triggering options, to start pattern generation upon the reception of an event from an external inpu...
173. ...urged before opening it for maintenance, and before refilling the generator with hydrogen. During shutdown, hydrogen is purged by an inert gas, and then the inert gas is replaced by air; the opposite **sequence** is used before startup. Carbon dioxide or nitrogen can be used for this purpose, as they do not form combustible mixtures with hydrogen and are inexpensive. Gas purity sensors are used to indicate th...
174. ...three-phase problems, that turned out to be particularly useful. The formula_1 transform applied to three-phase currents, as used by Edith Clarke, is where formula_5 is a generic three-phase current **sequence** and formula_6 is the corresponding current sequence given by the transformation formula_7. The inverse transform is: The above Clarke's transformation preserves the amplitude of the electrical variab...
175. ...larly useful. The formula_1 transform applied to three-phase currents, as used by Edith Clarke, is where formula_5 is a generic three-phase current sequence and formula_6 is the corresponding current **sequence** given by the transformation formula_7. The inverse transform is: The above Clarke's transformation preserves the amplitude of the electrical variables which it is applied to. Indeed, consider a three...
176. ...la_7. The inverse transform is: The above Clarke's transformation preserves the amplitude of the electrical variables which it is applied to. Indeed, consider a three-phase symmetric, direct, current **sequence** where formula_10 is the RMS of formula_11, formula_12, formula_13 and formula_14 is the generic time-varying angle that can also be set to formula_15 without loss of generality. Then, by applying for...
177. ...he RMS of formula_11, formula_12, formula_13 and formula_14 is the generic time-varying angle that can also be set to formula_15 without loss of generality. Then, by applying formula_7 to the current **sequence**, it results where the last equation holds since we have considered balanced currents. As it is shown in the above, the amplitudes of the currents in the formula_1 reference frame are the same of that...

=== MAGNETIC FLUX DENSITY (57 occurrences) ===
1. ...development of graphite nanomaterials, particularly graphite nanocomposites and graphene. Gauss (unit) The gauss (symbol: , sometimes Gs) is a unit of measurement of magnetic induction, also known as **magnetic flux density**. The unit is part of the Gaussian system of units, which inherited it from the older centimetre–gram–second electromagnetic units (CGS-EMU) system. It was named after the German mathematician and phy...
2. ...en superseded by the International System of Units (SI), the use of the gauss has been deprecated by the standards bodies, but is still regularly used in various subfields of science. The SI unit for **magnetic flux density** is the tesla (symbol T), which corresponds to . Albeit not a component of the International System of Units, the usage of the gauss generally follows the rules for SI units. Since the name is derived...
3. ...anuary 1943. Tesla's work fell into relative obscurity following his death, until 1960, when the General Conference on Weights and Measures named the International System of Units (SI) measurement of **magnetic flux density** the tesla in his honor. There has been a resurgence in popular interest in Tesla since the 1990s. Nikola Tesla was born into an ethnic Serb family in the village of Smiljan, within the Military Front...
4. ...re is purely sinusoidal, the relationship for either winding between its rms voltage "E" of the winding, and the supply frequency "f", number of turns "N", core cross-sectional area "A" in m and peak **magnetic flux density** "B" in Wb/m or T (tesla) is given by the universal EMF equation: A dot convention is often used in transformer circuit diagrams, nameplates or terminal markings to define the relative polarity of tra...
5. ...ctor field). In electromagnetics, the term "magnetic field" is used for two distinct but closely related vector fields denoted by the symbols and . In the International System of Units, the unit of , **magnetic flux density**, is the tesla (in SI base units: kilogram per second squared per ampere), which is equivalent to newton per meter per ampere. The unit of , magnetic field strength, is ampere per meter (A/m). and dif...
6. ...oltage generated around a closed loop) and is the magnetic flux—the product of the area times the magnetic field normal to that area. (This definition of magnetic flux is why is often referred to as "**magnetic flux density**".) The negative sign represents the fact that any current generated by a changing magnetic field in a coil produces a magnetic field that "opposes" the "change" in the magnetic field that induced it....
7. ...isotropic medium (such as birefringent crystals as discussed below) the electric or magnetic field may have longitudinal as well as transverse components. In those cases the electric displacement and **magnetic flux density** still obey the above geometry but due to anisotropy in the electric susceptibility (or in the magnetic permeability), now given by a tensor, the direction of (or ) may differ from that of (or ). Even...
8. ...d the inductance formula_68. An inductor consists of a coiled conductor. Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction gives the back emf formula_70 (voltage opposing current) due to a rate-of-change of **magnetic flux density** formula_71 through a current loop. Or explicitly in real and imaginary terms: For components connected in parallel, the voltage across each circuit element is the same; the ratio of currents through...
9. ...ransmission line, using bipolar cylindrical coordinates. In the "microscopic" version of Maxwell's equations, this definition must be replaced by a definition in terms of the electric field E and the **magnetic flux density** B (described later in the article). It is also possible to combine the electric displacement field D with the magnetic flux B to get the "Minkowski form" of the Poynting vector, or use D and H to con...
10. ...ectromagnet into a commercial product in 1830–1831, giving people access to strong magnetic fields for the first time. In 1831 he built an ore separator with an electromagnet capable of lifting . The **magnetic flux density** (also called magnetic B field or just magnetic field, usually denoted by B) is a vector field. The magnetic B field vector at a given point in space is specified by two properties: In SI units, the s...
11. ..., the force can be asymptotically approximated at large distance formula_10 by, where formula_2 is the magnetization of the magnets and formula_18 is the gap between the magnets. A measurement of the **magnetic flux density** very close to the magnet formula_19 is related to formula_2 approximately by the formula The effective magnetic dipole can be written as Where formula_23 is the volume of the magnet. For a cylinder,...
12. ...ng statement is exactly correct if the solenoid considered is infinite in length with the current evenly distributed over its surface. The oersted is closely related to the gauss (G), the CGS unit of **magnetic flux density**. In vacuum, if the magnetizing field strength is 1 Oe, then the magnetic field density is 1 G, whereas in a medium having permeability (relative to permeability of vacuum), their relation is Because...
13. ...tic field passing through a surface. If the magnetic field is constant, the magnetic flux passing through a surface of vector area S is formula_1 where "B" is the magnitude of the magnetic field (the **magnetic flux density**) having the unit of Wb/m (tesla), "S" is the area of the surface, and "θ" is the angle between the magnetic field lines and the normal (perpendicular) to S. For a varying magnetic field, we first con...
14. ...ce in the oscillations when the bar was magnetised and when it was demagnetised allowed Gauss to calculate an absolute value for the strength of the Earth's magnetic field. The gauss, the CGS unit of **magnetic flux density** was named in his honour, defined as one maxwell per square centimeter; it equals 1×10 tesla (the SI unit). Francis Ronalds and Charles Brooke independently invented magnetographs in 1846 that continu...
15. ...ance is made larger by the multiple turns in an electromagnetic coil. Faraday's law of electromagnetic induction gives the counter-emf formula_26 (voltage opposing current) due to a rate-of-change of **magnetic flux density** formula_27 through a current loop. where: When both a capacitor and an inductor are placed in series in a circuit, their contributions to the total circuit impedance are opposite. Capacitive reactanc...
16. ...gnetic moment constant. For the current loop, this limit is most easily derived from the vector potential: where "μ" is the vacuum permeability constant and is the surface of a sphere of radius . The **magnetic flux density** (strength of the B-field) is then Alternatively one can obtain the scalar potential first from the magnetic pole limit, and hence the magnetic field strength (or strength of the H-field) is The magne...
17. ...a magnetic field around the conductor, which is described by Ampere's circuital law. The total magnetic flux formula_3 through a circuit is equal to the product of the perpendicular component of the **magnetic flux density** and the area of the surface spanning the current path. If the current varies, the magnetic flux formula_3 through the circuit changes. By Faraday's law of induction, any change in flux through a circ...
18. ...l points and a correction term, where A solenoid is a long, thin coil; i.e., a coil whose length is much greater than its diameter. Under these conditions, and without any magnetic material used, the **magnetic flux density** formula_82 within the coil is practically constant and is given by formula_83 where formula_51 is the magnetic constant, formula_85 the number of turns, formula_2 the current and formula_87 the lengt...
19. ...pace – then the new terms in Maxwell's equations are all zero, and the extended equations reduce to the conventional equations of electromagnetism such as (where is the divergence operator and is the **magnetic flux density**). The extended Maxwell's equations are as follows, in CGS-Gaussian units: In these equations is the "magnetic charge density", is the "magnetic current density", and is the "magnetic charge" of a tes...
20. ...oportionality constant that indicates the degree of magnetization of a material in response to an applied magnetic field. A related term is magnetizability, the proportion between magnetic moment and **magnetic flux density**. A closely related parameter is the permeability, which expresses the total magnetization of material and volume. The "volume magnetic susceptibility", represented by the symbol (often simply , somet...
21. ...sing kinetic energy (positive work). When net positive work is applied to a charge "q", it gains speed and momentum. The net work on "q" thereby generates a magnetic field whose strength (in units of **magnetic flux density** (1 tesla = 1 volt-second per square meter)) is proportional to the speed increase of "q". This magnetic field can interact with a neighboring charge "q", passing on this momentum to it, and in return...
22. ...in magnetic field strength instead of increases and decreases in pressure. It can be described at a starting point whereby the chosen working substance is introduced into a magnetic field, i.e., the **magnetic flux density** is increased. The working material is the refrigerant, and starts in thermal equilibrium with the refrigerated environment. Once the refrigerant and refrigerated environment are in thermal equilibriu...
23. ...metal is moving, the magnetic flux through a given area of the sheet is changing. In particular, the part of the sheet moving toward the edge of the magnet (the left side) experiences an increase in **magnetic flux density** formula_5. This change in magnetic flux, in turn, induces a circular electromotive force (EMF) in the sheet, in accordance with Faraday's law of induction, exerting a force on the electrons in the sh...
24. ...counterclockwise circular current formula_6 in the sheet. This is an eddy current. Similarly, the part of the sheet moving away from the edge of the magnet (the right side) experiences a decrease in **magnetic flux density** formula_7, inducing a second eddy current, this time in a clockwise direction. Since the electrons have a negative charge, they move in the opposite direction to the conventional current shown by the...
25. ...netisation vanishes outside the walls, that is for the bore formula_19 and surroundings formula_20. By definition, the auxiliary magnetic field strength formula_21 is related to the magnetisation and **magnetic flux density** formula_22 by formula_23. Using Gauss' law formula_24, this is equivalently Since the problem is static there are no free currents and all time derivatives vanish, so Ampère's law additionally requir...
26. ...ote that these are identical to Equations and , so indeed the guess was consistent. Hence we have formula_59 and formula_60, giving the solution Consequently, the magnetic field is given by while the **magnetic flux density** can then be found everywhere using the previous definition formula_23. In the bore, where the magnetisation vanishes, this reduces to formula_64. Hence the magnitude of the flux density there is whic...
27. ...rrent) and m is meter (SI base unit of distance). This unit has equivalents in other SI derived units including: formula_3 where N is newton (SI derived unit of force), T is tesla (SI derived unit of **magnetic flux density**), and J is joule (SI derived unit of energy). Although torque (N·m) and energy (J) are dimensionally equivalent, torques are never expressed in units of energy. In the CGS system, there are several d...
28. ...d as it will more evenly distribute the current across a large combined area as opposed to a single coil with large discs. The non-uniform current density must also be considered when calculating the **magnetic flux density**. Ampère's Law for a basic current carrying loop of wire gives that the on-axis magnetic flux is proportional to the current running through the wire and is related to the basic geometry of the loop,...
29. ...re. This is not the case for a Bitter disc. As such, the current term must be replaced with terms discussing the cross-sectional area of the disc and the current density. The equation for the on-axis **magnetic flux density** of a Bitter disc becomes much more complex as a result. The differential flux density is related to the current density and the differential area. The introduction of a "space factor" must be include...
30. ...rallel to the path of the light, it can be calculated as where formula_2 is the angle between the starting and ending polarizations, formula_3 is the Verdet constant, formula_4 is the strength of the **magnetic flux density**, and formula_5 is the path length in the material. The Verdet constant of a material is wavelength-dependent and for most materials is extremely small. It is strongest in substances containing parama...
31. ...gh a simple rotation. The polarization state is rotated in proportion to the applied longitudinal magnetic field according to: where formula_2 is the angle of rotation (in radians),  formula_3 is the **magnetic flux density** in the direction of propagation (in teslas),  formula_4 is the length of the path (in metres) where the light and magnetic field interact, and  formula_5 is the Verdet constant for the material. This...
32. ...sics, the weber ( ; symbol: Wb) is the unit of magnetic flux in the International System of Units (SI). The unit is derived (through Faraday's law of induction) from the relationship (volt-second). A **magnetic flux density** of 1 Wb/m (one weber per square metre) is one tesla. The weber is named after the German physicist Wilhelm Eduard Weber (1804–1891). The weber may be defined in terms of Faraday's law, which relates...
33. ...potential difference of one volt across two open-circuited terminals). Officially: That is: formula_1 One weber is also the total magnetic flux across a surface of one square meter perpendicular to a **magnetic flux density** of one tesla; that is, formula_2 Expressed only in SI base units, 1 weber is: formula_3 The weber is used in the definition of the henry as 1 weber per ampere, and consequently can be expressed as th...
34. ...nt electrotechnical fields and to determine the equivalence of the terms used in the different languages."  In 1930, TC1 decided that the magnetic field strength (H) is of a different nature from the **magnetic flux density** (B), and took up the question of naming the units for these fields and related quantities, among them the integral of magnetic flux density. In 1935, TC 1 recommended names for several electrical uni...
35. ...gnetic field strength (H) is of a different nature from the magnetic flux density (B), and took up the question of naming the units for these fields and related quantities, among them the integral of **magnetic flux density**. In 1935, TC 1 recommended names for several electrical units, including the weber for the practical unit of magnetic flux (and the maxwell for the CGS unit). Also in 1935, TC1 passed responsibility...
36. ...act to each other with some lag time. These fields can be written as phasors, such that where formula_13 is the phase delay of formula_1 from formula_2. Understanding permeability as the ratio of the **magnetic flux density** to the magnetic field, the ratio of the phasors can be written and simplified as so that the permeability becomes a complex number. By Euler's formula, the complex permeability can be translated from...
37. ...moned anew. Black Racer makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in the "" episode "Apokolips... Now!". Black Racer appears as a character summon in "". Tesla (unit) The tesla (symbol: T) is the unit of **magnetic flux density** (also called magnetic B-field strength) in the International System of Units (SI).  One tesla is equal to one weber per square metre. The unit was announced during the General Conference on Weights a...
38. ...w. That is,  formula_1 As an SI derived unit, the tesla can also be expressed in terms of other units. For example, a magnetic flux of 1 weber (Wb) through a surface of one square meter is equal to a **magnetic flux density** of 1 tesla. That is, formula_2 Expressed only in SI base units, 1 tesla is: formula_3 where A is ampere, kg is kilogram, and s is second. Additional equivalences result from the derivation of coulomb...
39. ...nd "denucleation"). Magnetic hysteresis can be characterized in various ways. In general, the magnetic material is placed in a varying applied field, as induced by an electromagnet, and the resulting **magnetic flux density** ( field) is measured, generally by the inductive electromotive force introduced on a pickup coil nearby the sample. This produces the characteristic curve; because the hysteresis indicates a memory e...
40. ...aval Ordnance Laboratory in the early 1950s – at the time of invention it was one of the highest coercive force permanent magnets available, at 3000 oersteds. Coercive force reached 3650 oersteds and **magnetic flux density** 4800 by the mid 1950s. The material was generally strong, and stable to shock and vibration, but had a tendency to chip. Slow corrosion of the material occurred under normal conditions. The material...
41. ...S used to calculate the magnetic flux Φ is usually chosen to be the cross-sectional area of the component. The SI unit of magnetic flux is the weber (in derived units: volt-seconds), and the unit of **magnetic flux density** (or "magnetic induction", ) is the weber per square meter, or tesla. The most common way of representing a magnetic circuit is the resistance–reluctance model, which draws an analogy between electric...
42. ...971. The negative temperature coefficient avoids excessive local heating beneath carpets, bean bag chairs, mattresses, etc., which can damage wooden floors, and may infrequently cause fires. Residual **magnetic flux density** or B changes with temperature and it is one of the important characteristics of magnet performance. Some applications, such as inertial gyroscopes and traveling-wave tubes (TWTs), need to have consta...
43. ...ields are independent of time and each other. The magnetostatic equations, in both differential and integral forms, are shown in the table below. Where ∇ with the dot denotes divergence, and B is the **magnetic flux density**, the first integral is over a surface formula_2 with oriented surface element formula_3. Where ∇ with the cross denotes curl, J is the current density and is the magnetic field intensity, the second...
44. ...vibration, in which the core iron changes shape minutely when exposed to magnetic fields. The intensity of the fields, and thus the "hum" intensity, is a function of the applied voltage. Because the **magnetic flux density** is strongest twice every electrical cycle, the fundamental "hum" frequency will be twice the electrical frequency. Additional harmonics above 100/120Hz will be caused by the non-linear behavior of mo...
45. ...on of the bare tether should be insulated. This insulation amount depends on a number of effects, some of which are plasma density, the tether length and width, the orbiting velocity, and the Earth's **magnetic flux density**. An electrodynamic tether is attached to an object, the tether being oriented at an angle to the local vertical between the object and a planet with a magnetic field. The tether's far end can be left...
46. ...ermittivity , and is the Laplace operator. In a vacuum, , a fundamental physical constant. The electromagnetic wave equation derives from Maxwell's equations. In most older literature, is called the "**magnetic flux density**" or "magnetic induction". The following equationsformula_3predicate that any electromagnetic wave must be a transverse wave, where the electric field and the magnetic field are both perpendicular to...
47. ...in (Sn), used industrially as a type-II superconductor. This intermetallic compound has a simple structure: A3B. It is more expensive than niobium–titanium (NbTi), but remains superconducting up to a **magnetic flux density** of , compared to a limit of roughly 15 T for NbTi. NbSn was discovered to be a superconductor in 1954. The material's ability to support high currents and magnetic fields was discovered in 1961 and s...
48. ...s processed in such a way that the optimal properties are developed in the rolling direction, due to a tight control (proposed by Norman P. Goss) of the crystal orientation relative to the sheet. The **magnetic flux density** is increased by 30% in the coil rolling direction, although its magnetic saturation is decreased by 5%. It is used for the cores of power and distribution transformers, cold-rolled grain-oriented ste...
49. ...with the shape becoming ever more square as the temperature is lowered. Consider a two-dimensional quantum gas of electrons confined in a sample with given width and with edges. In the presence of a **magnetic flux density** "B", the energy eigenvalues of this system are described by Landau levels. As shown in Fig 1, these levels are equidistant along the vertical axis. Each energy level is substantially flat inside a sa...
50. ...For a given sample, all factors including the electron density "n" on the right hand side of relationship () are constant. When plotting the index "i" of an edge channel versus the reciprocal of its **magnetic flux density** 1/"B", one obtains a straight line with slope 2"e"/("nh"). Since the electron charge "e" is known and also the Planck constant "h", one can derive the electron density "n" of a sample from this plot....
51. ...nown and also the Planck constant "h", one can derive the electron density "n" of a sample from this plot. Shubnikov–De Haas oscillations are observed in highly doped BiSe. Fig 3 shows the reciprocal **magnetic flux density** 1/"B" of the 10th to 14th minima of a BiSe sample. The slope of 0.00618/T as obtained from a linear fit yields the electron density "n" Shubnikov–de Haas oscillations can be used to map the Fermi sur...
52. ...ere taken with readings ranging from a low of 6γ (6nT) at the Apollo 15 site to a maximum of 313γ (0.31μT) at the Apollo 16 site, note these readings were recorded in gammas(γ) a now outdated unit of **magnetic flux density** equivalent to 1nT.  One hypothesis holds that the crustal magnetizations were acquired early in lunar history when a geodynamo was still operating. An analysis of magnetized Moon rocks brought to Ear...
53. ...while engaged in cybercrime. Orders of magnitude (magnetic field) This page lists examples of magnetic induction B in teslas and gauss produced by various sources, grouped by orders of magnitude. The **magnetic flux density** does not measure how strong a magnetic field is, but only how strong the magnetic flux is in a given point or at a given distance (usually right above the magnet's surface). For the "intrinsic" order...
54. ...rconducting. Superconductivity is characterized both by perfect conductivity (zero resistance) and by the complete expulsion of magnetic fields (the Meissner effect). Changes in either temperature or **magnetic flux density** can cause the phase transition between normal and superconducting states. The highest temperature under which the superconducting state is seen is known as the critical temperature. At that temperatu...
55. ...move closer together, and eventually at the upper critical field formula_5, they leave no room for the superconducting state and the zero-resistivity property is lost. The upper critical field is the **magnetic flux density** (usually expressed with the unit tesla (T)) that completely suppresses superconductivity in a type-II superconductor at 0 K (absolute zero). More properly, the upper critical field is a function of t...
56. ...field () at 0 K from and the slope of at . The upper critical field (at 0 K) can also be estimated from the coherence length () using the Ginzburg–Landau expression: . The lower critical field is the **magnetic flux density** at which the magnetic flux starts to penetrate a type-II superconductor. Werthamer–Helfand–Hohenberg theory In physics, The Werthamer–Helfand–Hohenberg (WHH) theory was proposed in 1966 by N. Richard...
57. ...agnetic field does not contribute to the potential energy. The Lorentz force on a particle with charge formula_8 and velocity formula_9 is where formula_11 is the electric field and formula_12 is the **magnetic flux density**. The rate of work done is formula_13 and does not depend on formula_12. Therefore, the energy does not depend on the magnetic field, so the distribution of motions does not depend on the magnetic fie...

=== PLATE (433 occurrences) ===
1. ...+" is the cathode (while discharging). In both a galvanic cell and an electrolytic cell, the anode is the electrode at which the oxidation reaction occurs. In a galvanic cell the anode is the wire or **plate** having excess negative charge as a result of the oxidation reaction. In an electrolytic cell, the anode is the wire or plate upon which excess positive charge is imposed. As a result of this, anions...
2. ...the oxidation reaction occurs. In a galvanic cell the anode is the wire or plate having excess negative charge as a result of the oxidation reaction. In an electrolytic cell, the anode is the wire or **plate** upon which excess positive charge is imposed. As a result of this, anions will tend to move towards the anode where they will undergo oxidation. Historically, the anode of a galvanic cell was also kn...
3. ...s ends between charge and discharge cycles. In electronic vacuum devices such as a cathode-ray tube, the anode is the positively charged electron collector. In a tube, the anode is a charged positive **plate** that collects the electrons emitted by the cathode through electric attraction. It also accelerates the flow of these electrons. In a semiconductor diode, the anode is the P-doped layer which initial...
4. ...replaced the then current distinction made between 'vitreous' and 'resinous' electricity, and he was the first to discover the principle of conservation of charge. In 1748, he constructed a multiple **plate** capacitor, that he called an "electrical battery" (not a true battery like Volta's pile) by placing eleven panes of glass sandwiched between lead plates, suspended with silk cords and connected by wi...
5. ...radio waves and microwaves. Wilhelm Röntgen discovered and named X-rays. After experimenting with high voltages applied to an evacuated tube on 8 November 1895, he noticed a fluorescence on a nearby **plate** of coated glass. In one month, he discovered X-rays' main properties. The last portion of the EM spectrum to be discovered was associated with radioactivity. Henri Becquerel found that uranium salts...
6. ...d X-rays' main properties. The last portion of the EM spectrum to be discovered was associated with radioactivity. Henri Becquerel found that uranium salts caused fogging of an unexposed photographic **plate** through a covering paper in a manner similar to X-rays, and Marie Curie discovered that only certain elements gave off these rays of energy, soon discovering the intense radiation of radium. The radi...
7. ...anded upon Crookes's experiments by placing metal plates parallel to the cathode rays and applying an electric potential between the plates. The field deflected the rays toward the positively charged **plate**, providing further evidence that the rays carried negative charge. By measuring the amount of deflection for a given electric and magnetic field, in 1890 Schuster was able to estimate the charge-to-m...
8. ...etic permeability.  Magnetic permeability describes the induced magnetization of a material due to the presence of an external magnetic field. For example, this temporary magnetization inside a steel **plate** accounts for the plate's attraction to a magnet. Whether or not that steel plate then acquires permanent magnetization depends on both the strength of the applied field and on the coercivity of that...
9. ...netic permeability describes the induced magnetization of a material due to the presence of an external magnetic field. For example, this temporary magnetization inside a steel plate accounts for the **plate**'s attraction to a magnet. Whether or not that steel plate then acquires permanent magnetization depends on both the strength of the applied field and on the coercivity of that particular piece of ste...
10. ...a material due to the presence of an external magnetic field. For example, this temporary magnetization inside a steel plate accounts for the plate's attraction to a magnet. Whether or not that steel **plate** then acquires permanent magnetization depends on both the strength of the applied field and on the coercivity of that particular piece of steel (which varies with the steel's chemical composition and...
11. ...ctric Currents". The term ordinary Hall effect can be used to distinguish the effect described in the introduction from a related effect which occurs across a void or hole in a semiconductor or metal **plate** when current is injected via contacts that lie on the boundary or edge of the void. The charge then flows outside the void, within the metal or semiconductor material. The effect becomes observable,...
12. ...echniques used to capture the phenomenon of electrical coronal discharges. It is named after Soviet scientist Semyon Kirlian, who, in 1939, accidentally discovered that if an object on a photographic **plate** is connected to a high-voltage source, an image is produced on the photographic plate. The technique has been variously known as "electrography", "electrophotography", "corona discharge photography"...
13. ...after Soviet scientist Semyon Kirlian, who, in 1939, accidentally discovered that if an object on a photographic plate is connected to a high-voltage source, an image is produced on the photographic **plate**. The technique has been variously known as "electrography", "electrophotography", "corona discharge photography" (CDP), "bioelectrography", "gas discharge visualization (GDV)", "electrophotonic imagi...
14. ...trodes were brought near the patient's skin, there was a glow similar to that of a neon discharge tube. The Kirlians conducted experiments in which photographic film was placed on top of a conducting **plate**, and another conductor was attached to a hand, a leaf or other plant material. The conductors were energized by a high-frequency high-voltage power source, producing photographic images typically sho...
15. ...y the university in 1979. Kirlian photography is a technique for creating contact print photographs using high voltage. The process entails placing sheet photographic film on top of a metal discharge **plate**. The object to be photographed is then placed directly on top of the film. High voltage current is momentarily applied to the object, thus creating an exposure. The corona discharge between the objec...
16. ...ct to be photographed is then placed directly on top of the film. High voltage current is momentarily applied to the object, thus creating an exposure. The corona discharge between the object and the **plate** due to high-voltage is captured by the film. The developed film results in a Kirlian photograph of the object. Color photographic film is calibrated to produce faithful colors when exposed to normal...
17. ...scharge. Kirlian photography does not require the use of a camera or a lens because it is a contact print process. It is possible to use a transparent electrode in place of the high-voltage discharge **plate**, for capturing the resulting corona discharge with a standard photo or video camera. Visual artists such as Robert Buelteman, Ted Hiebert, and Dick Lane have used Kirlian photography to produce artis...
18. ...onsequence of light pressure, Einstein in 1909 predicted the existence of "radiation friction" which would oppose the movement of matter. He wrote, "radiation will exert pressure on both sides of the **plate**. The forces of pressure exerted on the two sides are equal if the plate is at rest. However, if it is in motion, more radiation will be reflected on the surface that is ahead during the motion (front...
19. ...f "radiation friction" which would oppose the movement of matter. He wrote, "radiation will exert pressure on both sides of the plate. The forces of pressure exerted on the two sides are equal if the **plate** is at rest. However, if it is in motion, more radiation will be reflected on the surface that is ahead during the motion (front surface) than on the back surface. The backwardacting force of pressure...
20. ...pressure exerted on the front surface is thus larger than the force of pressure acting on the back. Hence, as the resultant of the two forces, there remains a force that counteracts the motion of the **plate** and that increases with the velocity of the plate. We will call this resultant 'radiation friction' in brief." Usually light momentum is aligned with its direction of motion. However, for example in...
21. ...er than the force of pressure acting on the back. Hence, as the resultant of the two forces, there remains a force that counteracts the motion of the plate and that increases with the velocity of the **plate**. We will call this resultant 'radiation friction' in brief." Usually light momentum is aligned with its direction of motion. However, for example in evanescent waves momentum is transverse to directi...
22. ...he jar store equal but opposite charges. The original form of the device is just a glass bottle partially filled with water, with a metal wire passing through a cork closing it. The role of the outer **plate** is provided by the hand of the experimenter. Soon John Bevis found (in 1747) that it was possible to coat the exterior of the jar with metal foil, and he also found that he could achieve the same eff...
23. ...the hand of the experimenter. Soon John Bevis found (in 1747) that it was possible to coat the exterior of the jar with metal foil, and he also found that he could achieve the same effect by using a **plate** of glass with metal foil on both sides. These developments inspired William Watson in the same year to have a jar made with a metal foil lining both inside and outside, dropping the use of water. Ear...
24. ...987. CMOS transistors have been manufactured on top of MEMS structures. There are two basic types of MEMS switch technology: capacitive and ohmic. A capacitive MEMS switch is developed using a moving **plate** or sensing element, which changes the capacitance. Ohmic switches are controlled by electrostatically controlled cantilevers. Ohmic MEMS switches can fail from metal fatigue of the MEMS actuator (can...
25. ...cable are rated to work for up to 15 minutes in molten aluminium, glass, and steel. Major products are bonding materials; flexible, heater, molding, and segment plates; mica paper; and tape. Flexible **plate** is used in electric motor and generator armatures, field coil insulation, and magnet and commutator core insulation. Mica consumption in flexible plates was about 21 tonnes in 2008 in the US. A heate...
26. ...s used in electric motor and generator armatures, field coil insulation, and magnet and commutator core insulation. Mica consumption in flexible plates was about 21 tonnes in 2008 in the US. A heater **plate** is used where high-temperature insulation is required. The molding plate is sheet mica from which V-rings are cut and stamped for use in insulating the copper segments from the steel shaft ends of a...
27. ...and magnet and commutator core insulation. Mica consumption in flexible plates was about 21 tonnes in 2008 in the US. A heater plate is used where high-temperature insulation is required. The molding **plate** is sheet mica from which V-rings are cut and stamped for use in insulating the copper segments from the steel shaft ends of a commutator. The molding plate is also fabricated into tubes and rings for...
28. ...erature insulation is required. The molding plate is sheet mica from which V-rings are cut and stamped for use in insulating the copper segments from the steel shaft ends of a commutator. The molding **plate** is also fabricated into tubes and rings for insulation in armatures, motor starters, and transformers. Segment plate acts as insulation between the copper commutator segments of direct-current univer...
29. ...ulating the copper segments from the steel shaft ends of a commutator. The molding plate is also fabricated into tubes and rings for insulation in armatures, motor starters, and transformers. Segment **plate** acts as insulation between the copper commutator segments of direct-current universal motors and generators. Phlogopite built-up mica is preferred because it wears at the same rate as the copper segm...
30. ...nstrument (often a charge-coupled device) at the focal point instead. The optics of photography involves both lenses and the medium in which the electromagnetic radiation is recorded, whether it be a **plate**, film, or charge-coupled device. Photographers must consider the reciprocity of the camera and the shot which is summarized by the relation In other words, the smaller the aperture (giving greater de...
31. ...ight of frequency higher than a certain threshold; light of frequency lower than the threshold, no matter how intense, does not initiate the reaction. Similarly, electrons can be ejected from a metal **plate** by shining light of sufficiently high frequency on it (the photoelectric effect); the energy of the ejected electron is related only to the light's frequency, not to its intensity. At the same time,...
32. ...ove under stimulated emission. Individual photons can be detected by several methods. The classic photomultiplier tube exploits the photoelectric effect: a photon of sufficient energy strikes a metal **plate** and knocks free an electron, initiating an ever-amplifying avalanche of electrons. Semiconductor charge-coupled device chips use a similar effect: an incident photon generates a charge on a microscop...
33. ...a series of investigations by Wilhelm Hallwachs, Hoor, Augusto Righi and Aleksander Stoletov on the effect of light, and especially of ultraviolet light, on charged bodies. Hallwachs connected a zinc **plate** to an electroscope. He allowed ultraviolet light to fall on a freshly cleaned zinc plate and observed that the zinc plate became uncharged if initially negatively charged, positively charged if initi...
34. ...tov on the effect of light, and especially of ultraviolet light, on charged bodies. Hallwachs connected a zinc plate to an electroscope. He allowed ultraviolet light to fall on a freshly cleaned zinc **plate** and observed that the zinc plate became uncharged if initially negatively charged, positively charged if initially uncharged, and more positively charged if initially positively charged. From these o...
35. ...specially of ultraviolet light, on charged bodies. Hallwachs connected a zinc plate to an electroscope. He allowed ultraviolet light to fall on a freshly cleaned zinc plate and observed that the zinc **plate** became uncharged if initially negatively charged, positively charged if initially uncharged, and more positively charged if initially positively charged. From these observations he concluded that som...
36. ...ively charged if initially uncharged, and more positively charged if initially positively charged. From these observations he concluded that some negatively charged particles were emitted by the zinc **plate** when exposed to ultraviolet light.  With regard to the "Hertz effect", the researchers from the start showed the complexity of the phenomenon of photoelectric fatigue—the progressive diminution of th...
37. ...s tubes. Thomson deduced that the ejected particles, which he called corpuscles, were of the same nature as cathode rays. These particles later became known as the electrons. Thomson enclosed a metal **plate** (a cathode) in a vacuum tube, and exposed it to high-frequency radiation. It was thought that the oscillating electromagnetic fields caused the atoms' field to resonate and, after reaching a certain...
38. ...into photons. Intensification of the signal is achieved either through acceleration of the electrons or by increasing the number of electrons through secondary emissions, such as with a micro-channel **plate**. Sometimes a combination of both methods is used. Additional kinetic energy is required to move an electron out of the conduction band and into the vacuum level. This is known as the electron affinit...
39. ...o whom he submitted his discovery paper in late 1932. The positron was the first evidence of antimatter and was discovered when Anderson allowed cosmic rays to pass through a cloud chamber and a lead **plate**. A magnet surrounded this apparatus, causing particles to bend in different directions based on their electric charge. The ion trail left by each positron appeared on the photographic plate with a cu...
40. ...nd a lead plate. A magnet surrounded this apparatus, causing particles to bend in different directions based on their electric charge. The ion trail left by each positron appeared on the photographic **plate** with a curvature matching the mass-to-charge ratio of an electron, but in a direction that showed its charge was positive. Anderson wrote in retrospect that the positron could have been discovered ea...
41. ...at . Difficulties in precisely measuring the physical constants to replicate this standard result in variations of as much as 30 ppm. From 1900 the mercury ohm was replaced with a precision machined **plate** of manganin. Since 1990 the international resistance standard has been based on the quantized Hall effect discovered by Klaus von Klitzing, for which he won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1985. Resist...
42. ...am Bell used the light-sensitive property of selenium to transmit sound over a beam of light in 1880. A working solar cell, of low efficiency, was constructed by Charles Fritts in 1883, using a metal **plate** coated with selenium and a thin layer of gold; the device became commercially useful in photographic light meters in the 1930s. Point-contact microwave detector rectifiers made of lead sulfide were u...
43. ...ch that the two internal reflections cause a total relative phase shift of 90° between the two polarizations of an incident wave. This device performs the same function as a birefringent quarter-wave **plate**, but is more achromatic (that is, the phase shift of the rhomb is less sensitive to wavelength). Either device may be used, for instance, to transform linear polarization to circular polarization (wh...
44. ...Their AC systems used arc and incandescent lamps, generators, and other equipment. In 1882, Lucien Gaulard and John Dixon Gibbs first exhibited a device with an initially widely criticized laminated **plate** open iron core called a 'secondary generator' in London, then sold the idea to the Westinghouse company in the United States in 1886. They also exhibited the invention in Turin, Italy in 1884, where...
45. ...linear function of formula_28 vs. formula_29. The average slope of this function will then yield an estimate of the value of the "B" parameter. Many NTC thermistors are made from a pressed disc, rod, **plate**, bead or cast chip of semiconducting material such as sintered metal oxides. They work because raising the temperature of a semiconductor increases the number of active charge carriers by promoting t...
46. ...a small propellant reservoir that stores the liquid metal, a narrow tube or a system of parallel plates that the liquid flows through and an accelerator (a ring or an elongated aperture in a metallic **plate**) about a millimeter past the tube end. Caesium and indium are used due to their high atomic weights, low ionization potentials and low melting points. Once the liquid metal reaches the end of the tub...
47. ...oject Daedalus. A small pellet of fusion fuel (with a diameter of a couple of millimeters) would be ignited by an electron beam or a laser. To produce direct thrust, a magnetic field forms the pusher **plate**. In principle, the Helium-3-Deuterium reaction or an aneutronic fusion reaction could be used to maximize the energy in charged particles and to minimize radiation, but it is highly questionable whet...
48. ...by coils immersed in pressurized tanks of insulating oil. Most Tesla coil designs have a smooth spherical- or toroidal-shaped metal electrode on the high-voltage terminal. The electrode serves as one **plate** of a capacitor, with the Earth as the other plate, forming the tuned circuit with the secondary winding. Although the "toroid" increases the secondary capacitance, which tends to reduce the peak volt...
49. ...ng oil. Most Tesla coil designs have a smooth spherical- or toroidal-shaped metal electrode on the high-voltage terminal. The electrode serves as one plate of a capacitor, with the Earth as the other **plate**, forming the tuned circuit with the secondary winding. Although the "toroid" increases the secondary capacitance, which tends to reduce the peak voltage, its main effect is that its large-diameter cu...
50. ...il driving the bottom of a separate third coil helical resonator. Modern 2-coil systems use a single secondary coil. The top of the secondary is then connected to a topload terminal, which forms one '**plate**' of a capacitor, the other 'plate' being the earth (or "ground"). The primary LC circuit is tuned so that it resonates at the same frequency as the secondary LC circuit. The primary and secondary coi...
51. ...e third coil helical resonator. Modern 2-coil systems use a single secondary coil. The top of the secondary is then connected to a topload terminal, which forms one 'plate' of a capacitor, the other '**plate**' being the earth (or "ground"). The primary LC circuit is tuned so that it resonates at the same frequency as the secondary LC circuit. The primary and secondary coils are magnetically coupled, creat...
52. ...and drive the primary winding using either a single, half-bridge, or full-bridge arrangement of transistors, MOSFETs, or IGBTs to switch the primary current. Vacuum tube coils typically operate with **plate** voltages between 1500 and 6000 volts, while most spark gap coils operate with primary voltages of 6,000 to 25,000 volts. The primary winding of a traditional transistor Tesla coil is wound around onl...
53. ...be recorded continuously with a device known as an electrograph. Francis Ronalds created an early electrograph around 1814 in which the changing electricity made a pattern in a rotating resin-coated **plate**. It was employed at Kew Observatory and the Royal Observatory, Greenwich in the 1840s to create records of variations in atmospheric electricity. In 1845, Ronalds invented photographic means of regis...
54. ...valve) with a very high gain (transconductance) and input resistance. The input current is allowed to flow into the high impedance grid, and the voltage so generated is vastly amplified in the anode (**plate**) circuit. Valves designed for electrometer use have leakage currents as low as a few femtoamperes (10 amperes). Such valves must be handled with gloved hands as the salts left on the glass envelope c...
55. ...een the antenna and ground, so it requires a grounding (earthing) system under the antenna to make contact with the soil to collect the return current. The ground system also functions as a capacitor **plate**, to receive the displacement current from the antenna and return it to the ground side of the transmitter's feedline, so it is preferably located directly under the antenna. In receivers and low effi...
56. ...ground, a counterpoise is used. This is a radial network of wires similar to that in a buried ground system, but lying on the surface or suspended a few feet above the ground. It acts as a capacitor **plate**, capacitively coupling the feedline to conductive layers of the soil. At lower frequencies the resistance of the ground system is a more critical factor because of the small radiation resistance of t...
57. ...0°, and the amplitudes are the same, then circular polarization is produced (fourth and fifth figures). Circular polarization can be created by sending linearly polarized light through a quarter-wave **plate** oriented at 45° to the linear polarization to create two components of the same amplitude with the required phase shift. The superposition of the original and phase-shifted components causes a rotati...
58. ...chosen appropriately. In a birefringent substance, electromagnetic waves of different polarizations travel at different speeds (phase velocities). As a result, when unpolarized waves travel through a **plate** of birefringent material, one polarization component has a shorter wavelength than the other, resulting in a phase difference between the components which increases the further the waves travel throu...
59. ...ions, because most everyday sources of light are not good point sources.) The head of the committee, Dominique-François-Jean Arago, performed the experiment. He molded a 2 mm metallic disk to a glass **plate** with wax. To everyone's surprise he observed the predicted bright spot, which vindicated the wave model. Fresnel won the competition. After that, the corpuscular theory of light was dead, but was rev...
60. ...current as one would have computed for the power delivered using basic laws of electricity. Other similar examples in which the "P" = "V" · "I" result can be analytically calculated are: the parallel-**plate** transmission line, using Cartesian coordinates, and the two-wire transmission line, using bipolar cylindrical coordinates. In the "microscopic" version of Maxwell's equations, this definition must be...
61. ...rings along its length as charge carriers, which passed into a spherical metal electrode. The charge was applied to the belt from the grounded lower roller by electrostatic induction using a charged **plate**. John Gray also invented a belt machine about 1890. Another more complicated belt machine was invented in 1903 by Juan Burboa A more immediate inspiration for Van de Graaff was a generator W. F. G. S...
62. ...iation through that medium: The capacitance of a capacitor is based on its design and architecture, meaning it will not change with charging and discharging. The formula for capacitance in a parallel **plate** capacitor is written as where formula_17 is the area of one plate, formula_18 is the distance between the plates, and formula_19 is the permittivity of the medium between the two plates. For a capaci...
63. ...d on its design and architecture, meaning it will not change with charging and discharging. The formula for capacitance in a parallel plate capacitor is written as where formula_17 is the area of one **plate**, formula_18 is the distance between the plates, and formula_19 is the permittivity of the medium between the two plates. For a capacitor with relative permittivity formula_20, it can be said that Per...
64. ...d, but the advantage over triple probes has never been entirely convincing. The spacing between probes must be larger than the Debye length of the plasma to prevent an overlapping Debye sheath. A pin-**plate** probe consists of a small electrode directly in front of a large electrode, the idea being that the voltage sweep of the large probe can perturb the plasma potential at the sheath edge and thereby ag...
65. ...an electronic circuit that could withstand being fired from a gun, and could be produced in quantity. The Centralab Division of Globe Union submitted a proposal which met the requirements: a ceramic **plate** would be screenprinted with metallic paint for conductors and carbon material for resistors, with ceramic disc capacitors and subminiature vacuum tubes soldered in place. The technique proved viable,...
66. ...ronics use. Tin will grow "whiskers" due to tension in the plated surface. Tin-lead or solder plating also grows whiskers, only reduced by reducing the percentage of tin. Reflow to melt solder or tin **plate** to relieve surface stress lowers whisker incidence. Another coating issue is tin pest, the transformation of tin to a powdery allotrope at low temperature. Areas that should not be soldered may be co...
67. ...wn (1), yellow (4), grey (8). Power transformers used in North American vacuum-tube equipment were often color-coded to identify the leads. Black was the primary connection, red secondary for the B+ (**plate** voltage), red with a yellow tracer was the center tap for the B+ full-wave rectifier winding, green or brown was the heater voltage for all tubes, yellow was the filament voltage for the rectifier tu...
68. ...Atomics during the late 1950s and early 1960s, with the idea of reacting small directional nuclear explosives utilizing a variant of the Teller–Ulam two-stage bomb design against a large steel pusher **plate** attached to the spacecraft with shock absorbers. Efficient directional explosives maximized the momentum transfer, leading to specific impulses in the range of seconds, or about thirteen times that o...
69. ...could visit Saturn's moons in a seven-month mission (compared to chemically powered missions of about nine years). Notable engineering problems that occurred were related to crew shielding and pusher-**plate** lifetime. Although the system appeared to be workable, the project was shut down in 1965, primarily because the Partial Test Ban Treaty made it illegal; in fact, before the treaty, the US and Soviet...
70. ...e electric charge that arises in the simplest textbook situations would be classified as "free charge"—for example, the charge which is transferred in static electricity, or the charge on a capacitor **plate**. In contrast, "bound charge" arises only in the context of dielectric (polarizable) materials. (All materials are polarizable to some extent.) When such materials are placed in an external electric f...
71. ...of the sun, although beneath the horizon, could be determined, and the apparent solar time obtained. The clock consisted of a spyglass, having a Nicol (double-image) prism for an eyepiece, and a thin **plate** of selenite for an object-glass. When the tube was directed to the North Pole—that is, parallel to the Earth's axis—and the prism of the eyepiece turned until no colour was seen, the angle of turning...
72. ...also common. Breadboards have evolved over time with the term now being used for all kinds of prototype electronic devices. For example, US Patent 3,145,483, was filed in 1961 and describes a wooden **plate** breadboard with mounted springs and other facilities. US Patent 3,496,419, was filed in 1967 and refers to a particular printed circuit board layout as a "Printed Circuit Breadboard". Both examples r...
73. ...oubau in 1936. A team at Gulf Research Laboratories led by Victor Vacquier developed airborne fluxgate magnetometers to detect submarines during World War II and after the war confirmed the theory of **plate** tectonics by using them to measure shifts in the magnetic patterns on the sea floor. A wide variety of sensors are currently available and used to measure magnetic fields. Fluxgate compasses and grad...
74. ...t monitors, concealed weapons detection, military weapon systems positioning, sensors in anti-locking brakes, weather prediction (via solar cycles), steel pylons, drill guidance systems, archaeology, **plate** tectonics, radio wave propagation, and planetary exploration. Laboratory magnetometers determine the magnetic dipole moment of a magnetic sample, typically as a function of temperature, magnetic fiel...
75. ...ling they were suspended from. In his laboratory, Galvani later discovered that he could replicate this phenomenon by touching metal electrodes of brass connected to the frog's spinal cord to an iron **plate**. He concluded that this was proof of "animal electricity," the electric power which animated living things. Alessandro Volta, a contemporary physicist, believed that the effect was explicable not by...
76. ...f its entire line of publications, The New 52. The character's original one-piece outfit was restored, although the color combination of red and blue was changed to dark red and blue-black. Her chest-**plate**, belt and tiara were also changed from gold to a platinum or sterling silver color. Along with her sword, she now also utilizes a shield. She wears many accessories such as arm and neck jewelry style...
77. ...e coil and gives rise to parallel resonance. In many applications this is an undesirable effect and sets an upper frequency limit for the correct operation of the circuit. A common form is a parallel-**plate** capacitor, which consists of two conductive plates insulated from each other, usually sandwiching a dielectric material. In a parallel plate capacitor, capacitance is very nearly proportional to the...
78. ...rect operation of the circuit. A common form is a parallel-plate capacitor, which consists of two conductive plates insulated from each other, usually sandwiching a dielectric material. In a parallel **plate** capacitor, capacitance is very nearly proportional to the surface area of the conductor plates and inversely proportional to the separation distance between the plates. If the charges on the plates a...
79. ...ging field" around the periphery provides only a small contribution to the capacitance. Combining the equation for capacitance with the above equation for the energy stored in a capacitor, for a flat-**plate** capacitor the energy stored is: formula_43 where formula_20 is the energy, in joules; formula_14 is the capacitance, in farads; and formula_13 is the voltage, in volts. Any two adjacent conductors ca...
80. ...sured in joules) stored in a capacitor is equal to the "work" required to push the charges into the capacitor, i.e. to charge it. Consider a capacitor of capacitance "C", holding a charge +"q" on one **plate** and −"q" on the other. Moving a small element of charge d"q" from one plate to the other against the potential difference requires the work d"W": formula_49 where "W" is the work measured in joules,...
81. ...sh the charges into the capacitor, i.e. to charge it. Consider a capacitor of capacitance "C", holding a charge +"q" on one plate and −"q" on the other. Moving a small element of charge d"q" from one **plate** to the other against the potential difference requires the work d"W": formula_49 where "W" is the work measured in joules, "q" is the charge measured in coulombs and "C" is the capacitance, measured...
82. ...n coulombs and "C" is the capacitance, measured in farads. The energy stored in a capacitor is found by integrating this equation. Starting with an uncharged capacitance () and moving charge from one **plate** to the other until the plates have charge +"Q" and −"Q" requires the work "W": formula_50 The capacitance of nanoscale dielectric capacitors such as quantum dots may differ from conventional formulat...
83. ...pair of partially silvered glass optical flats spaced several millimeters to centimeters apart with the silvered surfaces facing each other. (Alternatively, a Fabry–Pérot "etalon" uses a transparent **plate** with two parallel reflecting surfaces.) As with the Fizeau interferometer, the flats are slightly beveled. In a typical system, illumination is provided by a diffuse source set at the focal plane of...
84. ...ion or emission features of trace gases. A typical use would be in continual monitoring of the column concentration of trace gases such as ozone and carbon monoxide above the instrument. Newton (test **plate**) interferometry is frequently used in the optical industry for testing the quality of surfaces as they are being shaped and figured. Fig. 13 shows photos of reference flats being used to check two te...
85. ...multi- exposure holography is one of three methods used to create holographic interferograms. A first exposure records the object in an unstressed state. Subsequent exposures on the same photographic **plate** are made while the object is subjected to some stress. The composite image depicts the difference between the stressed and unstressed states. Real-time holography is a second method of creating holog...
86. ...researches published by Michael Faraday in 1834. In an electrolysis experiment, there is a one-to-one correspondence between the electrons passing through the anode-to-cathode wire and the ions that **plate** onto or off of the anode or cathode. Measuring the mass change of the anode or cathode, and the total charge passing through the wire (which can be measured as the time-integral of electric current),...
87. ...1923. The experiment observed tiny electrically charged droplets of oil located between two parallel metal surfaces, forming the plates of a capacitor. The plates were oriented horizontally, with one **plate** above the other. A mist of atomized oil drops was introduced through a small hole in the top plate and was ionized by x-rays, making them negatively charged. First, with zero applied electric field,...
88. ...l metal surfaces, forming the plates of a capacitor. The plates were oriented horizontally, with one plate above the other. A mist of atomized oil drops was introduced through a small hole in the top **plate** and was ionized by x-rays, making them negatively charged. First, with zero applied electric field, the velocity of a falling droplet was measured. At terminal velocity, the drag force equals the gra...
89. ...a needle." In the 2nd century BC, Chinese geomancers were experimenting with the magnetic properties of lodestone to make a "south-pointing spoon" for divination. When it is placed on a smooth bronze **plate**, the spoon would invariably rotate to a north–south axis. While this has been shown to work, archaeologists have yet to discover an actual spoon made of magnetite in a Han tomb. Based on his discover...
90. ...potential to lower chemical potential is accompanied by a release of free energy. Therefore, it is a spontaneous process. Another example, not based on concentration but on phase, is an ice cube on a **plate** above 0 °C. An HO molecule that is in the solid phase (ice) has a higher chemical potential than a water molecule that is in the liquid phase (water) above 0 °C. When some of the ice melts, HO molecu...
91. ...ing's Phantom Works at (approximately Mach 5) with accelerations exceeding 60,000 g. During one of the tests, the projectile was able to travel an additional downrange after penetrating a thick steel **plate**. The company hopes to have an integrated demo of the system by 2016 followed by production by 2019, pending funding. Thus far, the project is self-funded. In October 2013, General Atomics unveiled a...
92. ..., such as n-butane, to maleic anhydride. Silicon carbide is used in carborundum printmaking – a collagraph printmaking technique. Carborundum grit is applied in a paste to the surface of an aluminium **plate**. When the paste is dry, ink is applied and trapped in its granular surface, then wiped from the bare areas of the plate. The ink plate is then printed onto paper in a rolling-bed press used for intag...
93. ...echnique. Carborundum grit is applied in a paste to the surface of an aluminium plate. When the paste is dry, ink is applied and trapped in its granular surface, then wiped from the bare areas of the **plate**. The ink plate is then printed onto paper in a rolling-bed press used for intaglio printmaking. The result is a print of painted marks embossed into the paper. Carborundum grit is also used in stone...
94. ...rundum grit is applied in a paste to the surface of an aluminium plate. When the paste is dry, ink is applied and trapped in its granular surface, then wiped from the bare areas of the plate. The ink **plate** is then printed onto paper in a rolling-bed press used for intaglio printmaking. The result is a print of painted marks embossed into the paper. Carborundum grit is also used in stone Lithography. It...
95. ...ows it to be used to "Grain" a stone which removes the previous image. In a similar process to sanding, coarser grit Carborundum is applied to the stone and worked with a Levigator, typically a round **plate** eccentric on a perpendicular shaft, then gradually finer and finer grit is applied until the stone is clean. This creates a grease sensitive surface. Silicon carbide can be used in the production of...
96. ...and is sometimes erroneously credited with its invention. The word "electrophorus" was coined by Volta from the Greek , and , meaning 'electricity bearer'. The electrophorus consists of a dielectric **plate** (originally a 'cake' of resinous material such as pitch or wax, but in modern versions plastic is used) and a metal plate with an insulating handle. The dielectric plate is first charged through the...
97. ...nd , meaning 'electricity bearer'. The electrophorus consists of a dielectric plate (originally a 'cake' of resinous material such as pitch or wax, but in modern versions plastic is used) and a metal **plate** with an insulating handle. The dielectric plate is first charged through the triboelectric effect by rubbing it with fur or cloth. For this discussion, imagine the dielectric gains negative charge by...
98. ...orus consists of a dielectric plate (originally a 'cake' of resinous material such as pitch or wax, but in modern versions plastic is used) and a metal plate with an insulating handle. The dielectric **plate** is first charged through the triboelectric effect by rubbing it with fur or cloth. For this discussion, imagine the dielectric gains negative charge by rubbing, as in the illustration below. The meta...
99. ...s first charged through the triboelectric effect by rubbing it with fur or cloth. For this discussion, imagine the dielectric gains negative charge by rubbing, as in the illustration below. The metal **plate** is then placed onto the dielectric plate. The dielectric does not transfer a significant fraction of its surface charge to the metal because the microscopic contact is poor. Instead the electrostatic...
100. ...effect by rubbing it with fur or cloth. For this discussion, imagine the dielectric gains negative charge by rubbing, as in the illustration below. The metal plate is then placed onto the dielectric **plate**. The dielectric does not transfer a significant fraction of its surface charge to the metal because the microscopic contact is poor. Instead the electrostatic field of the charged dielectric causes t...
101. ...t transfer a significant fraction of its surface charge to the metal because the microscopic contact is poor. Instead the electrostatic field of the charged dielectric causes the charges in the metal **plate** to separate. It develops two regions of charge – the positive charges in the plate are attracted to the side facing down toward the dielectric, charging it positively, while the negative charges are...
102. ...croscopic contact is poor. Instead the electrostatic field of the charged dielectric causes the charges in the metal plate to separate. It develops two regions of charge – the positive charges in the **plate** are attracted to the side facing down toward the dielectric, charging it positively, while the negative charges are repelled to the side facing up, charging it negatively, with the plate remaining el...
103. ...arges in the plate are attracted to the side facing down toward the dielectric, charging it positively, while the negative charges are repelled to the side facing up, charging it negatively, with the **plate** remaining electrically neutral as a whole. Then, the side facing up is momentarily grounded (which can be done by touching it with a finger), draining off the negative charge. Finally, the metal plat...
104. ...late remaining electrically neutral as a whole. Then, the side facing up is momentarily grounded (which can be done by touching it with a finger), draining off the negative charge. Finally, the metal **plate**, now carrying only one sign of charge (positive in our example), is lifted. Since the charge on the dielectric is not depleted in this process, the charge on the metal plate can be used for experimen...
105. ...harge. Finally, the metal plate, now carrying only one sign of charge (positive in our example), is lifted. Since the charge on the dielectric is not depleted in this process, the charge on the metal **plate** can be used for experiments, for example by touching it to metal conductors allowing the charge to drain away, and the uncharged metal plate can be placed back on the dielectric and the process repea...
106. ...c is not depleted in this process, the charge on the metal plate can be used for experiments, for example by touching it to metal conductors allowing the charge to drain away, and the uncharged metal **plate** can be placed back on the dielectric and the process repeated to get another charge. This can be repeated as often as desired, so in principle an unlimited amount of induced charge can be obtained fr...
107. ...harges around to restore neutrality. One of the largest examples of an electrophorus was built in 1777 by German scientist Georg Christoph Lichtenberg. It was 6 feet (2 m) in diameter, with the metal **plate** raised and lowered using a pulley system. It could reportedly produce 15-inch (38 cm) sparks. Lichtenberg used its discharges to create the strange treelike marks known as Lichtenberg figures. Charge...
108. ...treelike marks known as Lichtenberg figures. Charge in the universe is conserved. The electrophorus simply separates positive and negative charges. A positive or negative charge ends up on the metal **plate** (or other storage conductor), and the opposite charge is stored in another object after grounding (in the earth or the person touching the metal plate). This separation takes work since the lowest en...
109. ...positive or negative charge ends up on the metal plate (or other storage conductor), and the opposite charge is stored in another object after grounding (in the earth or the person touching the metal **plate**). This separation takes work since the lowest energy state implies uncharged objects. Work is done by raising the charged metal plate away from the oppositely charged resinous plate. This additional...
110. ...ct after grounding (in the earth or the person touching the metal plate). This separation takes work since the lowest energy state implies uncharged objects. Work is done by raising the charged metal **plate** away from the oppositely charged resinous plate. This additional energy put into the system is converted to potential energy in the form of charge separation (opposite charges that were originally on...
111. ...ouching the metal plate). This separation takes work since the lowest energy state implies uncharged objects. Work is done by raising the charged metal plate away from the oppositely charged resinous **plate**. This additional energy put into the system is converted to potential energy in the form of charge separation (opposite charges that were originally on the plate), so raising the metal plate actually...
112. ...from the oppositely charged resinous plate. This additional energy put into the system is converted to potential energy in the form of charge separation (opposite charges that were originally on the **plate**), so raising the metal plate actually increases its voltage relative to the dielectric plate. The electrophorus is thus actually a manually operated electrostatic generator, using the same principle...
113. ...resinous plate. This additional energy put into the system is converted to potential energy in the form of charge separation (opposite charges that were originally on the plate), so raising the metal **plate** actually increases its voltage relative to the dielectric plate. The electrophorus is thus actually a manually operated electrostatic generator, using the same principle of electrostatic induction as...
114. ...nverted to potential energy in the form of charge separation (opposite charges that were originally on the plate), so raising the metal plate actually increases its voltage relative to the dielectric **plate**. The electrophorus is thus actually a manually operated electrostatic generator, using the same principle of electrostatic induction as electrostatic machines such as the Wimshurst machine and the Va...
115. ...rt Hull at GE discovered that vacuum tubes could have negative resistance in parts of their operating ranges, due to a phenomenon called secondary emission. In a vacuum tube when electrons strike the **plate** electrode they can knock additional electrons out of the surface into the tube. This represents a current "away" from the plate, reducing the plate current. Under certain conditions increasing the pl...
116. ...n called secondary emission. In a vacuum tube when electrons strike the plate electrode they can knock additional electrons out of the surface into the tube. This represents a current "away" from the **plate**, reducing the plate current. Under certain conditions increasing the plate voltage causes a "decrease" in plate current. By connecting an LC circuit to the tube Hull created an oscillator, the dynatr...
117. ...mission. In a vacuum tube when electrons strike the plate electrode they can knock additional electrons out of the surface into the tube. This represents a current "away" from the plate, reducing the **plate** current. Under certain conditions increasing the plate voltage causes a "decrease" in plate current. By connecting an LC circuit to the tube Hull created an oscillator, the dynatron oscillator. Other...
118. ...te electrode they can knock additional electrons out of the surface into the tube. This represents a current "away" from the plate, reducing the plate current. Under certain conditions increasing the **plate** voltage causes a "decrease" in plate current. By connecting an LC circuit to the tube Hull created an oscillator, the dynatron oscillator. Other negative resistance tube oscillators followed, such as...
119. ...l electrons out of the surface into the tube. This represents a current "away" from the plate, reducing the plate current. Under certain conditions increasing the plate voltage causes a "decrease" in **plate** current. By connecting an LC circuit to the tube Hull created an oscillator, the dynatron oscillator. Other negative resistance tube oscillators followed, such as the magnetron invented by Hull in 19...
120. ...interrupter, invented by Arthur Wehnelt in 1899, consisted of a short platinum needle anode immersed in an electrolyte of dilute sulfuric acid, with the other side of the circuit connected to a lead **plate** cathode. When the primary current passed through it, hydrogen gas bubbles formed on the needle which repeatedly broke the circuit. This resulted in a primary current broken randomly at rates up to 20...
121. ...out 10% was achieved. Only very recently has it been possible to do the comparison the other way round, by bringing a well-prepared probe so close to a well-prepared surface that approximate parallel-**plate** geometry can be assumed and the conversion factor can be taken as 1/"W", where "W" is the measured probe-to emitter separation. Analysis of the resulting Fowler–Nordheim plot yields a work-function v...
122. ...ormly reliable devices proved difficult to fabricate. Research advanced to look for other materials that could be deposited/grown as thin films with suitable field-enhancing properties. In a parallel-**plate** arrangement, the "macroscopic" field "F" between the plates is given by , where "W" is the plate separation and "V" is the applied voltage. If a sharp object is created on one plate, then the local f...
123. ...ls that could be deposited/grown as thin films with suitable field-enhancing properties. In a parallel-plate arrangement, the "macroscopic" field "F" between the plates is given by , where "W" is the **plate** separation and "V" is the applied voltage. If a sharp object is created on one plate, then the local field "F" at its apex is greater than "F" and can be related to "F" by The parameter "γ" is called...
124. ...es. In a parallel-plate arrangement, the "macroscopic" field "F" between the plates is given by , where "W" is the plate separation and "V" is the applied voltage. If a sharp object is created on one **plate**, then the local field "F" at its apex is greater than "F" and can be related to "F" by The parameter "γ" is called the "field enhancement factor" and is basically determined by the object's shape. Si...
125. ...be determined, knowledge of "β" then allows the value of the emitter's effective field enhancement factor" γ" to be determined from the formula . In the common case of a film emitter generated on one **plate** of a two-plate arrangement with plate-separation "W" (so ) then Nowadays, this is one of the most likely applications of Fowler–Nordheim plots.] It subsequently became clear that the original thinkin...
126. ...knowledge of "β" then allows the value of the emitter's effective field enhancement factor" γ" to be determined from the formula . In the common case of a film emitter generated on one plate of a two-**plate** arrangement with plate-separation "W" (so ) then Nowadays, this is one of the most likely applications of Fowler–Nordheim plots.] It subsequently became clear that the original thinking above is stri...
127. ...llows the value of the emitter's effective field enhancement factor" γ" to be determined from the formula . In the common case of a film emitter generated on one plate of a two-plate arrangement with **plate**-separation "W" (so ) then Nowadays, this is one of the most likely applications of Fowler–Nordheim plots.] It subsequently became clear that the original thinking above is strictly correct only for t...
128. ...ve different electron densities. The alternating p & n-type semiconductor pillars are placed thermally in parallel to each other and electrically in series and then joined with a thermally conducting **plate** on each side, usually ceramic, removing the need for a separate insulator. When a voltage is applied to the free ends of the two semiconductors there is a flow of DC current across the junction of th...
129. ...en a voltage is applied to the free ends of the two semiconductors there is a flow of DC current across the junction of the semiconductors, causing a temperature difference. The side with the cooling **plate** absorbs heat which is then transported by the semiconductor to the other side of the device. The cooling ability of the total unit is then proportional to the total cross section of all the pillars,...
130. ...ier (planned) Future French aircraft carrier (planned) Project 23000 (proposed) INS Vishal (proposed) Electrolytic capacitor An electrolytic capacitor is a polarized capacitor whose anode or positive **plate** is made of a metal that forms an insulating oxide layer through anodization. This oxide layer acts as the dielectric of the capacitor. A solid, liquid, or gel electrolyte covers the surface of this o...
131. ...ide layer through anodization. This oxide layer acts as the dielectric of the capacitor. A solid, liquid, or gel electrolyte covers the surface of this oxide layer, serving as the cathode or negative **plate** of the capacitor. Because of their very thin dielectric oxide layer and enlarged anode surface, electrolytic capacitors have a much higher capacitance-voltage (CV) product per unit volume than cerami...
132. ...nts makes a comparison difficult. The anodically generated insulating oxide layer is destroyed if the polarity of the applied voltage changes. Electrolytic capacitors are based on the principle of a "**plate** capacitor" whose capacitance increases with larger electrode area A, higher dielectric permittivity ε, and thinness of dielectric (d). The dielectric thickness of electrolytic capacitors is very smal...
133. .... The first industrially realized electrolytic capacitors consisted of a metallic box used as the cathode. It was filled with a borax electrolyte dissolved in water, in which a folded aluminium anode **plate** was inserted. Applying a DC voltage from outside, an oxide layer was formed on the surface of the anode. The advantage of these capacitors was that they were significantly smaller and cheaper than al...
134. ...anion cells are involved in the "cyclic" withdrawal of ions (K) from sieve tubes, and their secretion parallel to their position of withdrawal between sieve plates, resulting in polarisation of sieve **plate** elements alongside potential difference in pressure, and results in polar water molecules and other solutes present moved upward through the phloem. In 2003, St Petersburg University graduates applie...
135. ...ents, acids and hydrocarbons. PVDF has low density 1.78 g/cm in comparison to other fluoropolymers, like polytetrafluoroethylene. It is available in the form of piping products, sheet, tubing, films, **plate** and an insulator for premium wire. It can be injected, molded or welded and is commonly used in the chemical, semiconductor, medical and defense industries, as well as in lithium-ion batteries. It is...
136. ...Crystal can control the various substances that make up common bedrock (earth: iron, granite, shale, limestone, etc.), creating seismic tremors of up to 6.7 on the Richter scale (greater if tectonic **plate** fault lines are nearby) by causing a sudden shifting of the earth. The upper limit of this power is unknown, although she has demonstrated the ability to lift the entire fictional city of Attilan for...
137. ...es and helmets with dark face plates—much darker than those in sunglasses or oxy-fuel goggles—are worn to prevent this exposure. In recent years, new helmet models have been produced featuring a face **plate** which automatically self-darkens electronically. To protect bystanders, transparent welding curtains often surround the welding area. These curtains, made of a polyvinyl chloride plastic film, shield...
138. ...ing called "the" excitatory neurotransmitter. In some invertebrates, glutamate is the main excitatory transmitter at the neuromuscular junction. In the neuromuscular junction of vertebrates, EPP (end-**plate** potentials) are mediated by the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, which (along with glutamate) is one of the primary transmitters in the central nervous system of invertebrates. At the same time, GABA...
139. ...esicle will occasionally be released into the synapse, generating miniature EPSPs  (mEPSPs). Bernard Katz pioneered the study of these mEPSPs at the neuromuscular junction (often called miniature end-**plate** potentials) in 1951, revealing the quantal nature of synaptic transmission. "Quantal size" can then be defined as the synaptic response to the release of neurotransmitter from a single vesicle, while...
140. ...es (electrical trees) on, and within, insulating materials. Two-dimensional (2D) Lichtenberg figures can be produced by placing a sharp-pointed needle perpendicular to the surface of a non-conducting **plate**, such as of resin, ebonite, or glass. The point is positioned very near or contacting the plate. A source of high voltage such as a Leyden jar (a type of capacitor) or a static electricity generator...
141. ...ures can be produced by placing a sharp-pointed needle perpendicular to the surface of a non-conducting plate, such as of resin, ebonite, or glass. The point is positioned very near or contacting the **plate**. A source of high voltage such as a Leyden jar (a type of capacitor) or a static electricity generator is applied to the needle, typically through a spark gap. This creates a sudden, small electrical...
142. ...Leyden jar (a type of capacitor) or a static electricity generator is applied to the needle, typically through a spark gap. This creates a sudden, small electrical discharge along the surface of the **plate**. This deposits stranded areas of charge onto the surface of the plate. These electrified areas are then tested by sprinkling a mixture of powdered flowers of sulfur and red lead (PbO or lead tetroxid...
143. ...applied to the needle, typically through a spark gap. This creates a sudden, small electrical discharge along the surface of the plate. This deposits stranded areas of charge onto the surface of the **plate**. These electrified areas are then tested by sprinkling a mixture of powdered flowers of sulfur and red lead (PbO or lead tetroxide) onto the plate. During handling, powdered sulfur tends to acquire a...
144. ...its stranded areas of charge onto the surface of the plate. These electrified areas are then tested by sprinkling a mixture of powdered flowers of sulfur and red lead (PbO or lead tetroxide) onto the **plate**. During handling, powdered sulfur tends to acquire a slight negative charge, while red lead tends to acquire a slight positive charge. The negatively electrified sulfur is attracted to the positively...
145. ...d sulfur tends to acquire a slight negative charge, while red lead tends to acquire a slight positive charge. The negatively electrified sulfur is attracted to the positively electrified areas of the **plate**, while the positively electrified red lead is attracted to the negatively electrified areas.  In addition to the distribution of colors thereby produced, there is also a marked difference in the form...
146. ...s.  In addition to the distribution of colors thereby produced, there is also a marked difference in the form of the figure, according to the polarity of the electrical charge that was applied to the **plate**. If the charge areas were positive, a widely extending patch is seen on the plate, consisting of a dense nucleus, from which branches radiate in all directions. Negatively charged areas are considera...
147. ...rked difference in the form of the figure, according to the polarity of the electrical charge that was applied to the plate. If the charge areas were positive, a widely extending patch is seen on the **plate**, consisting of a dense nucleus, from which branches radiate in all directions. Negatively charged areas are considerably smaller and have a sharp circular or fan-like boundary entirely devoid of bran...
148. ...a sharp circular or fan-like boundary entirely devoid of branches. Heinrich Rudolf Hertz employed Lichtenberg dust figures in his seminal work proving Maxwell's electromagnetic wave theories. If the **plate** receives a mixture of positive and negative charges as, for example, from an induction coil, a mixed figure results, consisting of a large red central nucleus, corresponding to the negative charge, s...
149. ...on the presence of air; for the difference tends to disappear when the experiment is conducted in vacuum. Peter T. Riess (a 19th-century researcher) theorized that the negative electrification of the **plate** was caused by the friction of the water vapour, etc., driven along the surface by the explosion which accompanies the disruptive discharge at the point. This electrification would favor the spread of...
150. ...In the 1930s special amplifying tubes were developed which deliberately "folded" the electron beam, by having it strike a dynode to be reflected into the anode. This had the effect of increasing the **plate**-grid distance for a given tube size, increasing the transconductance of the tube and reducing its noise figure. A typical such "orbital beam hexode" was the RCA 1630, introduced in 1939. Because the...
151. ...desirable such as in the tetrode thermionic valve (tube). In this instance the positively charged screen grid can accelerate the electron stream sufficiently to cause secondary emission at the anode (**plate**). This can give rise to excessive screen grid current. It is also partly responsible for this type of valve (tube), particularly early types with anodes not treated to reduce secondary emission, exhi...
152. ...some older valves (e.g., type 77 pentode) as dynatron oscillators. This effect was prevented by adding a third grid to the tetrode, called the suppressor grid, to repel the electrons back toward the **plate**. This tube was called the pentode. Photocathode A photocathode is a surface engineered to convert light (photons) into electrons using the photoelectric effect. Photocathodes are important in acceler...
153. ...tret properties were already known to science and had been studied since the early 1700s. One example is the electrophorus, a device consisting of a slab with electret properties and a separate metal **plate**. The electrophorus was originally invented by Johan Carl Wilcke in Sweden in 1762 and improved by Alessandro Volta in Italy in 1775. The first documented case of production was by Mototarô Eguchi in...
154. ...gitudes, latitudes, is inscribed in Arabic on all sides of the box. The compass has a blued steel needle with an open circle to indicate North. It is surmounted by a brass pyramidal pivot and a glass **plate** covers all. A brass ring over the rim of the compass carries a degree circle numbered in 'abjad' numerals and the cardinal points are marked. The folding triangular gnomon is supported by a decorativ...
155. ...t is also used for some classes of magnetically levitated bearings. Many examples of this have been used over the years. In this early configuration by Bedford, Peer, and Tonks from 1939, an aluminum **plate** is placed on two concentric cylindrical coils, and driven with an AC current. When the parameters are correct, the plate exhibits 6-axis stable levitation. In the 1950s, a technique was developed whe...
156. ...In this early configuration by Bedford, Peer, and Tonks from 1939, an aluminum plate is placed on two concentric cylindrical coils, and driven with an AC current. When the parameters are correct, the **plate** exhibits 6-axis stable levitation. In the 1950s, a technique was developed where small quantities of metal were levitated and melted by a magnetic field of a few tens of kHz. The coil was a metal pip...
157. ...sed to the electrodynamic system's advantage, however, as it creates a varying force in the rails that can be used as a reactionary system to drive the train, without the need for a separate reaction **plate**, as in most linear motor systems. Alternatively, propulsion coils on the guideway are used to exert a force on the magnets in the train and make the train move forward. The propulsion coils that exer...
158. ...e a working commercial product.  It was almost 18 years before a fully automated process was developed, the key breakthrough being the use of a cylindrical drum coated with selenium instead of a flat **plate**. This resulted in the first commercial automatic copier, the Xerox 914, being released by Haloid/Xerox in 1960.  Xerography is now used in most photocopying machines and in laser and LED printers. Th...
159. .... For example, piezoelectric resonators, commonly made from quartz, are used as frequency references. Common designs consist of electrodes attached to a piece of quartz, in the shape of a rectangular **plate** for high frequency applications, or in the shape of a tuning fork for low frequency applications. The high dimensional stability and low temperature coefficient of quartz helps keeps resonant frequen...
160. ...grid The control grid is an electrode used in amplifying thermionic valves (vacuum tubes) such as the triode, tetrode and pentode, used to control the flow of electrons from the cathode to the anode (**plate**) electrode. The control grid usually consists of a cylindrical screen or helix of fine wire surrounding the cathode, and is surrounded in turn by the anode. The control grid was invented by Lee De Fo...
161. ...through to the anode. A less negative, or positive, voltage on the grid will allow more electrons through, increasing the anode current. A given change in grid voltage causes a proportional change in **plate** current, so if a time-varying voltage is applied to the grid, the plate current waveform will be a copy of the applied grid voltage.  A relatively small variation in voltage on the control grid cause...
162. ...will allow more electrons through, increasing the anode current. A given change in grid voltage causes a proportional change in plate current, so if a time-varying voltage is applied to the grid, the **plate** current waveform will be a copy of the applied grid voltage.  A relatively small variation in voltage on the control grid causes a significantly large variation in anode current. The presence of a re...
163. ...onic valve (i.e. vacuum tube) to suppress secondary emission. It is also called the "antidynatron grid", as it reduces or prevents dynatron oscillations. It is located between the screen grid and the **plate** electrode (anode). The suppressor grid is used in the pentode vacuum tube, so called because it has five concentric electrodes: cathode, control grid, screen grid, suppressor grid, and plate, and als...
164. ...and the plate electrode (anode). The suppressor grid is used in the pentode vacuum tube, so called because it has five concentric electrodes: cathode, control grid, screen grid, suppressor grid, and **plate**, and also in other tubes with more grids, such as the hexode. The suppressor grid and pentode tube were invented in 1926 by Gilles Holst and Bernard D. H. Tellegen at Phillips Electronics. In a vacuu...
165. ...entode tube were invented in 1926 by Gilles Holst and Bernard D. H. Tellegen at Phillips Electronics. In a vacuum tube, electrons emitted by the heated cathode are attracted to the positively-charged **plate** and pass through the grids to the plate. When they strike the plate they knock other electrons out of the metal surface. This is called "secondary emission". In the four-electrode vacuum tube, the te...
166. ...les Holst and Bernard D. H. Tellegen at Phillips Electronics. In a vacuum tube, electrons emitted by the heated cathode are attracted to the positively-charged plate and pass through the grids to the **plate**. When they strike the plate they knock other electrons out of the metal surface. This is called "secondary emission". In the four-electrode vacuum tube, the tetrode, the second grid, the screen grid,...
167. ...Tellegen at Phillips Electronics. In a vacuum tube, electrons emitted by the heated cathode are attracted to the positively-charged plate and pass through the grids to the plate. When they strike the **plate** they knock other electrons out of the metal surface. This is called "secondary emission". In the four-electrode vacuum tube, the tetrode, the second grid, the screen grid, is operated at a positive v...
168. ...ectrons out of the metal surface. This is called "secondary emission". In the four-electrode vacuum tube, the tetrode, the second grid, the screen grid, is operated at a positive voltage close to the **plate** voltage. During portions of the cycle when the plate voltage is below the screen grid voltage, secondary electrons from the plate are attracted to the screen grid and return to the cathode through th...
169. ...ondary emission". In the four-electrode vacuum tube, the tetrode, the second grid, the screen grid, is operated at a positive voltage close to the plate voltage. During portions of the cycle when the **plate** voltage is below the screen grid voltage, secondary electrons from the plate are attracted to the screen grid and return to the cathode through the screen grid power supply. This flow of electrons aw...
170. ...grid, the screen grid, is operated at a positive voltage close to the plate voltage. During portions of the cycle when the plate voltage is below the screen grid voltage, secondary electrons from the **plate** are attracted to the screen grid and return to the cathode through the screen grid power supply. This flow of electrons away from the plate causes a reduction of plate current when the plate voltage...
171. ...below the screen grid voltage, secondary electrons from the plate are attracted to the screen grid and return to the cathode through the screen grid power supply. This flow of electrons away from the **plate** causes a reduction of plate current when the plate voltage increases, in other words the plate has a negative resistance with respect to the cathode. This can cause distortion in the plate waveform a...
172. ...e, secondary electrons from the plate are attracted to the screen grid and return to the cathode through the screen grid power supply. This flow of electrons away from the plate causes a reduction of **plate** current when the plate voltage increases, in other words the plate has a negative resistance with respect to the cathode. This can cause distortion in the plate waveform and parasitic oscillations ca...
173. ...from the plate are attracted to the screen grid and return to the cathode through the screen grid power supply. This flow of electrons away from the plate causes a reduction of plate current when the **plate** voltage increases, in other words the plate has a negative resistance with respect to the cathode. This can cause distortion in the plate waveform and parasitic oscillations called "dynatron oscillat...
174. ...rid and return to the cathode through the screen grid power supply. This flow of electrons away from the plate causes a reduction of plate current when the plate voltage increases, in other words the **plate** has a negative resistance with respect to the cathode. This can cause distortion in the plate waveform and parasitic oscillations called "dynatron oscillations" in an amplifier.  In the pentode, to p...
175. ...y from the plate causes a reduction of plate current when the plate voltage increases, in other words the plate has a negative resistance with respect to the cathode. This can cause distortion in the **plate** waveform and parasitic oscillations called "dynatron oscillations" in an amplifier.  In the pentode, to prevent the secondary electrons from reaching the screen grid, a suppressor grid, a coarse scre...
176. ...scillations" in an amplifier.  In the pentode, to prevent the secondary electrons from reaching the screen grid, a suppressor grid, a coarse screen of wires, is interposed between the screen grid and **plate**. It is biased at the cathode voltage, often connected to the cathode inside the glass tube. The negative potential of the suppressor with respect to the plate repels the secondary electrons back to t...
177. ...s interposed between the screen grid and plate. It is biased at the cathode voltage, often connected to the cathode inside the glass tube. The negative potential of the suppressor with respect to the **plate** repels the secondary electrons back to the plate. Since it is at the same potential as the cathode, the primary electrons from the cathode have no problem passing through the suppressor grid to the p...
178. ...t is biased at the cathode voltage, often connected to the cathode inside the glass tube. The negative potential of the suppressor with respect to the plate repels the secondary electrons back to the **plate**. Since it is at the same potential as the cathode, the primary electrons from the cathode have no problem passing through the suppressor grid to the plate.  In addition to preventing the distortion o...
179. ...e repels the secondary electrons back to the plate. Since it is at the same potential as the cathode, the primary electrons from the cathode have no problem passing through the suppressor grid to the **plate**.  In addition to preventing the distortion of plate current, the suppressor grid also increases the electrostatic shielding between the cathode and plate, causing the plate current to be almost indep...
180. ...Since it is at the same potential as the cathode, the primary electrons from the cathode have no problem passing through the suppressor grid to the plate.  In addition to preventing the distortion of **plate** current, the suppressor grid also increases the electrostatic shielding between the cathode and plate, causing the plate current to be almost independent of plate voltage. This increases the plate ou...
181. ...em passing through the suppressor grid to the plate.  In addition to preventing the distortion of plate current, the suppressor grid also increases the electrostatic shielding between the cathode and **plate**, causing the plate current to be almost independent of plate voltage. This increases the plate output resistance, and the amplification factor of the tube. Pentodes can have amplification factors of...
182. ...the suppressor grid to the plate.  In addition to preventing the distortion of plate current, the suppressor grid also increases the electrostatic shielding between the cathode and plate, causing the **plate** current to be almost independent of plate voltage. This increases the plate output resistance, and the amplification factor of the tube. Pentodes can have amplification factors of 1000 or more. Resid...
183. ...tion to preventing the distortion of plate current, the suppressor grid also increases the electrostatic shielding between the cathode and plate, causing the plate current to be almost independent of **plate** voltage. This increases the plate output resistance, and the amplification factor of the tube. Pentodes can have amplification factors of 1000 or more. Residual-current device A residual-current devi...
184. ...of plate current, the suppressor grid also increases the electrostatic shielding between the cathode and plate, causing the plate current to be almost independent of plate voltage. This increases the **plate** output resistance, and the amplification factor of the tube. Pentodes can have amplification factors of 1000 or more. Residual-current device A residual-current device (RCD), residual-current circuit...
185. ...and produce additional free electrons, these new free electrons will begin to accelerate toward electrode A. The process may then repeat causing multipactor. We now find the relationship between the **plate** spacing, RF frequency, and RF voltage that causes the strongest multipactor resonance. Consider a point in time at which electrons have just collided with electrode A at position -d/2. The electric f...
186. ...ft iron return paths, as shown in figure (C). In recent years, these Halbach dipoles have been used to conduct low-field NMR experiments. Compared to commercially available (Bruker Minispec) standard **plate** geometries (C) of permanent magnets, they, as explained above, offer a huge bore diameter, while still having a reasonably homogeneous field. The method used to find the field created by the cylinder...
187. ...taneous afferent feedback in maintaining postural control and increasing stability. Francis Bitter Francis Bitter (July 22, 1902 – July 26, 1967) was an American physicist. Bitter invented the Bitter **plate** used in resistive magnets (also called Bitter electromagnets). He also developed the water cooling method inherent to the design of Bitter magnets. Prior to this development, there was no way to cool...
188. ...tes (known as "Bitter plates") and insulating spacers stacked in a helical configuration, rather than coils of wire. The current flows in a helical path through the plates. The purpose of the stacked **plate** design is to withstand the enormous outward mechanical pressure produced by Lorentz forces due to the magnetic field acting on the moving electric charges in the plate, which increase with the square...
189. ...tes. The purpose of the stacked plate design is to withstand the enormous outward mechanical pressure produced by Lorentz forces due to the magnetic field acting on the moving electric charges in the **plate**, which increase with the square of the magnetic field strength. Additionally, water circulates through holes in the plates as a coolant, to carry away the enormous heat created in the plates due to r...
190. ...ted cooling holes will always be in partial alignment despite any flexure the discs experience. This new design allowed for a 40% increase in efficiency and has become the design of choice for Bitter **plate** based resistive magnets. Unlike a copper wire, the current density of a current carrying disc is not uniform across its cross-sectional area, but is instead a function of the ratio of the inner diame...
191. ...connection with capacitors with no medium between the plates. Consider the charging capacitor in the figure. The capacitor is in a circuit that causes equal and opposite charges to appear on the left **plate** and the right plate, charging the capacitor and increasing the electric field between its plates. No actual charge is transported through the vacuum between its plates. Nonetheless, a magnetic field...
192. ...citors with no medium between the plates. Consider the charging capacitor in the figure. The capacitor is in a circuit that causes equal and opposite charges to appear on the left plate and the right **plate**, charging the capacitor and increasing the electric field between its plates. No actual charge is transported through the vacuum between its plates. Nonetheless, a magnetic field exists between the p...
193. ...nt beyond a mere transport of charge. Next, this displacement current is related to the charging of the capacitor. Consider the current in the imaginary cylindrical surface shown surrounding the left **plate**. A current, say , passes outward through the left surface of the cylinder, but no conduction current (no transport of real charges) crosses the right surface . Notice that the electric field between...
194. ...s as the capacitor charges. That is, in a manner described by Gauss's law, assuming no dielectric between the plates: formula_16 where refers to the imaginary cylindrical surface. Assuming a parallel **plate** capacitor with uniform electric field, and neglecting fringing effects around the edges of the plates, according to charge conservation equation formula_17 where the first term has a negative sign be...
195. ...ation of dielectrics: With some change of symbols (and units) combined with the results deduced in the section (, , and the material constant these equations take the familiar form between a parallel **plate** capacitor with uniform electric field, and neglecting fringing effects around the edges of the plates: formula_37 When it came to deriving the electromagnetic wave equation from displacement current...
196. ...ower is converted to an oscillating electromagnetic field by some type of "antenna" device. The word "antenna" is used loosely here; it may be a coil of wire which generates a magnetic field, a metal **plate** which generates an electric field, an antenna which radiates radio waves, or a laser which generates light. A similar antenna or coupling device at the receiver converts the oscillating fields to an...
197. ...etal plates. The transmitter and receiver electrodes form a capacitor, with the intervening space as the dielectric. An alternating voltage generated by the transmitter is applied to the transmitting **plate**, and the oscillating electric field induces an alternating potential on the receiver plate by electrostatic induction, which causes an alternating current to flow in the load circuit. The amount of p...
198. ...space as the dielectric. An alternating voltage generated by the transmitter is applied to the transmitting plate, and the oscillating electric field induces an alternating potential on the receiver **plate** by electrostatic induction, which causes an alternating current to flow in the load circuit. The amount of power transferred increases with the frequency the square of the voltage, and the capacitanc...
199. ...w in the load circuit. The amount of power transferred increases with the frequency the square of the voltage, and the capacitance between the plates, which is proportional to the area of the smaller **plate** and (for short distances) inversely proportional to the separation. Capacitive coupling has only been used practically in a few low power applications, because the very high voltages on the electrode...
200. ...andard published in August 2009 enables high efficiency charging and powering of portable devices of up to 5 watts over distances of 4 cm (1.6 inches). The wireless device is placed on a flat charger **plate** (which can be embedded in table tops at cafes, for example) and power is transferred from a flat coil in the charger to a similar one in the device. In 2007, a team led by Marin Soljačić at MIT used...
201. ...therefore required to assure ionization of enough gas molecules to start an avalanche. To calculate the breakthrough voltage, a homogeneous electrical field is assumed. This is the case in a parallel-**plate** capacitor setup. The electrodes may have the distance formula_4. The cathode is located at the point formula_22. To get impact ionization, the electron energy formula_23 must become greater than the...
202. ...: It was hereby considered that the energy formula_50 that a charged particle can get between a collision depends on the electric field strength formula_51 and the charge formula_52: For the parallel-**plate** capacitor we have formula_53, where formula_54 is the applied voltage. As a single ionization was assumed formula_52 is the elementary charge formula_56. We can now put () and () into () and get Putt...
203. ...id the fringe fields as much as possible. However it was found by computation methods that deflection aberrations would be significantly reduced if the beam were injected offset toward the attracting **plate**. That way the beam tends to follow equipotentials and the deflection force is normal to the beam direction. Thus offset, all the electrons in the beam are deflected into the same angle. There is an i...
204. ...is deflection idea has been tested and verified. Deflection angles of 50 degrees are reportedly possible without measurable deflection aberration. Optimal injection offset is approximately 1/3 of the **plate** gap toward the deflecting plate. The useful beam diameter is also approximately 1/3 of the gap. Autoradiograph An autoradiograph is an image on an X-ray film or nuclear emulsion produced by the patte...
205. ...ed and verified. Deflection angles of 50 degrees are reportedly possible without measurable deflection aberration. Optimal injection offset is approximately 1/3 of the plate gap toward the deflecting **plate**. The useful beam diameter is also approximately 1/3 of the gap. Autoradiograph An autoradiograph is an image on an X-ray film or nuclear emulsion produced by the pattern of decay emissions (e.g., bet...
206. ...H. P. Blandy to abandon the cleanup and with it the surviving target ships. On August 10, Warren showed Blandy an autoradiograph made by a surgeonfish from the lagoon that was left on a photographic **plate** overnight. The film was exposed by alpha radiation produced from the fish's scales, evidence that plutonium, mimicking calcium, had been distributed throughout the fish. Blandy promptly ordered that...
207. ...the train is significantly quieter than other trains, trucks or airplanes. Assembly: Linear Induction Motor A linear induction motor consists of two parts: the primary coil assembly and the reaction **plate**. The primary coil assembly consists of phase windings surrounded by steel laminations, and includes a thermal sensor within a thermal epoxy. The reaction plate consists of a 3.2 mm (0.125 inch) thick...
208. ...primary coil assembly and the reaction plate. The primary coil assembly consists of phase windings surrounded by steel laminations, and includes a thermal sensor within a thermal epoxy. The reaction **plate** consists of a 3.2 mm (0.125 inch) thick aluminum or copper plate bonded to a 6.4 mm (0.25 inch) thick cold rolled steel sheet. There is an air gap between these two parts that creates the frictionles...
209. ...ssembly consists of phase windings surrounded by steel laminations, and includes a thermal sensor within a thermal epoxy. The reaction plate consists of a 3.2 mm (0.125 inch) thick aluminum or copper **plate** bonded to a 6.4 mm (0.25 inch) thick cold rolled steel sheet. There is an air gap between these two parts that creates the frictionless property an electromagnetic propulsion system encompasses. Func...
210. ...a linear induction motor begins with an AC force that is supplied to the coil windings within the primary coil assembly. This creates a traveling magnetic field that induces a current in the reaction **plate**, which then creates its own magnetic field. The magnetic fields in the primary coil assembly and reaction plate alternate, which generates force and direct linear motion. There are multiple applicati...
211. ...ssembly. This creates a traveling magnetic field that induces a current in the reaction plate, which then creates its own magnetic field. The magnetic fields in the primary coil assembly and reaction **plate** alternate, which generates force and direct linear motion. There are multiple applications for EMP technologies in the field of aerospace. Many of these applications are conceptual as of now, however...
212. ...in resistance. Transimpedance (or, transfer impedance) is the AC equivalent of transresistance, and is the dual of transadmittance. For vacuum tubes, transconductance is defined as the change in the **plate** (anode) current divided by the corresponding change in the grid/cathode voltage, with a constant plate (anode) to cathode voltage. Typical values of for a small-signal vacuum tube are 1 to . It is on...
213. ...the dual of transadmittance. For vacuum tubes, transconductance is defined as the change in the plate (anode) current divided by the corresponding change in the grid/cathode voltage, with a constant **plate** (anode) to cathode voltage. Typical values of for a small-signal vacuum tube are 1 to . It is one of the three characteristic constants of a vacuum tube, the other two being its gain (mu) and plate r...
214. ...t plate (anode) to cathode voltage. Typical values of for a small-signal vacuum tube are 1 to . It is one of the three characteristic constants of a vacuum tube, the other two being its gain (mu) and **plate** resistance or . The Van der Bijl equation defines their relation as follows: Similarly, in field-effect transistors, and MOSFETs in particular, transconductance is the change in the drain current div...
215. ...conversion. The floating panels also reduce the amount of water lost through evaporation and inhibit the growth of algae. Concentrator photovoltaics is a technology that contrary to conventional flat-**plate** PV systems uses lenses and curved mirrors to focus sunlight onto small, but highly efficient, multi-junction solar cells. These systems sometimes use solar trackers and a cooling system to increase t...
216. ...912. The electromagnetic propulsion was by attraction of iron in the train by direct current solenoids spaced along the track. The electromagnetic levitation was due to repulsion of the aluminum base **plate** of the train by the pulsating current electromagnets under the track. The pulses were generated by Bachelet's own Synchronizing-interrupter supplied with 220 VAC. As the train moved it switched power...
217. ...ed July 9 in London, just weeks before the start of WWI. Bachelet's second related patent, granted the same day as the first, had the levitation electromagnets in the train and the track was aluminum **plate**. In the patent he stated that this was a much cheaper construction, but he did not demonstrate it. In 1959, while delayed in traffic on the Throgs Neck Bridge, James Powell, a researcher at Brookhave...
218. ...sed to the electrodynamic system's advantage, however, as it creates a varying force in the rails that can be used as a reactionary system to drive the train, without the need for a separate reaction **plate**, as in most linear motor systems. Laithwaite led development of such "traverse-flux" systems at his Imperial College laboratory. Alternatively, propulsion coils on the guideway are used to exert a fo...
219. ...some novelty stores have begun selling miniature plasma ball nightlights that can be mounted on a standard light socket. Plasma balls can be used for experimenting with high voltages. If a conductive **plate** or wire coil is placed on the ball, capacitive coupling can transfer enough voltage to the plate or coil to produce a small arc or energize a high voltage load. This is possible because the plasma in...
220. ...standard light socket. Plasma balls can be used for experimenting with high voltages. If a conductive plate or wire coil is placed on the ball, capacitive coupling can transfer enough voltage to the **plate** or coil to produce a small arc or energize a high voltage load. This is possible because the plasma inside the ball and the conductor outside it act as plates of a capacitor, with the glass in betwee...
221. ...This is possible because the plasma inside the ball and the conductor outside it act as plates of a capacitor, with the glass in between as a dielectric. A step-down transformer connected between the **plate** and the ball's electrode can produce lower-voltage, higher-current radio frequency output. Careful earth grounding is essential to prevent injury or damage to equipment. Bringing conductive materials...
222. ...of the ball, capacitive coupling can induce enough potential on it to produce a small arc. This is possible because the ball's glass acts as a capacitor dielectric: the inside of the lamp acts as one **plate**, and the conductive object on the outside acts as the opposite capacitor plate. This is a dangerous action that can damage the ball or other electronic devices, and presents a fire ignition hazard. P...
223. ...small arc. This is possible because the ball's glass acts as a capacitor dielectric: the inside of the lamp acts as one plate, and the conductive object on the outside acts as the opposite capacitor **plate**. This is a dangerous action that can damage the ball or other electronic devices, and presents a fire ignition hazard. Perceptible amounts of ozone can be formed on the surface of a plasma ball. Many...
224. ...diverting field. This configuration allows for the modification of the stochastic layer size, which is positioned between the confined plasma volume and the field lines that terminate on the divertor **plate**. Boundary plasma research at LHD focuses on the capability of the helical divertor as an exhaust system for heliotrons and stellarators. Electrical impedance tomography Electrical impedance tomograph...
225. ...l thesis in Physics under the supervision of Henry Augustus Rowland. Hall's experiments in electromagnetics consisted of exposing thin gold leaf (and, later, using various other materials) on a glass **plate** and tapping off the gold leaf at points down its length. The effect is a potential difference ("Hall voltage") on opposite sides of a thin sheet of conducting or semiconducting material (the "Hall el...
226. ...e, model space shuttle or VW Beetle, and picture frame. 750,000 units of the top were sold from 1994 through 1999. The toy top is essentially a permanent magnetic ring and corresponding magnetic base **plate** with a ring or alternate geometric configuration. Functional parameters, such as the top rotation rate or top weighting, are stringent. Employing principles of the magnetic field and gyroscopic stabi...
227. ...bilizing rotation undergoes natural, gradual slowing, so that the levitation phenomenon fails within four minutes unless external power is supplied to sustain rotation. To levitate the top, a plastic **plate** is placed on top of the magnetic base, and the top is spun on the plate at 25–50 rotations per second (1500–3000 rpm). If too slow, the top falls over and slides off sideways; if too fast it does not...
228. ...tion phenomenon fails within four minutes unless external power is supplied to sustain rotation. To levitate the top, a plastic plate is placed on top of the magnetic base, and the top is spun on the **plate** at 25–50 rotations per second (1500–3000 rpm). If too slow, the top falls over and slides off sideways; if too fast it does not orient itself to follow magnetic flux as it moves, and slides off. Sinc...
229. ...it moves, and slides off. Since it can be difficult to spin the top fast enough by hand, Creative Gifts produced a battery-powered, hand held device to spin the top with an electric motor. Next, the **plate** is lifted by hand until, if conditions are right, the top rises above it to an equilibrium point. The top must also be weighted with washers of various sizes supplied in the kit. If too heavy it will...
230. ...ntil, if conditions are right, the top rises above it to an equilibrium point. The top must also be weighted with washers of various sizes supplied in the kit. If too heavy it will not rise above the **plate**; if too light it flies off. After a few minutes, the top falls when air friction slows it below the critical speed. Air temperature, air currents, ground vibration, and power source interruptions als...
231. ...m/°C, or ppm/K. This specifies the fraction (expressed in parts per million) that its electrical characteristics will deviate when taken to a temperature above or below the operating temperature. End-**plate** potential End plate potentials (EPPs) are the voltages which cause depolarization of skeletal muscle fibers caused by neurotransmitters binding to the postsynaptic membrane in the neuromuscular junct...
232. ...specifies the fraction (expressed in parts per million) that its electrical characteristics will deviate when taken to a temperature above or below the operating temperature. End-plate potential End **plate** potentials (EPPs) are the voltages which cause depolarization of skeletal muscle fibers caused by neurotransmitters binding to the postsynaptic membrane in the neuromuscular junction. They are called...
233. ...al, acetylcholine vesicles spontaneously leak into the neuromuscular junction and cause very small depolarizations in the postsynaptic membrane. This small response (~0.4mV) is called a miniature end **plate** potential (MEPP) and is generated by one acetylcholine-containing vesicle. It represents the smallest possible depolarization which can be induced in a muscle. The neuromuscular junction is the synap...
234. ...the axon terminal of the motor neuron. The motor neuron then innervates the muscle fibers to contraction by causing an action potential on the postsynaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction. End **plate** potentials are produced almost entirely by the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in skeletal muscle. Acetylcholine is the second most important excitatory neurotransmitter in the body following glutamat...
235. ...and learning. The polarization of membranes is controlled by sodium, potassium, calcium, and chloride ion channels. There are two types of ion channels involved in the neuromuscular junction and end **plate** potentials: voltage-gated ion channel and ligand-gated ion channel. Voltage gated ion channels are responsive to changes in membrane voltage which cause the voltage gated ion channel to open and allo...
236. ...he neuromuscular junction are nicotinic. Muscarinic receptors are G protein-coupled receptors that use a second messenger. These receptors are slow and therefore are unable to measure a miniature end **plate** potential (MEPP). They are located in the parasympathetic nervous system such as in the vagus nerve and the gastrointestinal tract.  During fetal development acetylcholine receptors are concentrated...
237. ...les with a diameter of 30 nm. Each acetylcholine vesicle contains approximately 5000 acetylcholine molecules. The vesicles release their entire quantity of acetylcholine and this causes miniature end **plate** potentials (MEPPs) to occur which are less than 1mV in amplitude and not enough to reach threshold. Miniature end plate potentials are the small (~0.4mV) depolarizations of the postsynaptic terminal...
238. ...es release their entire quantity of acetylcholine and this causes miniature end plate potentials (MEPPs) to occur which are less than 1mV in amplitude and not enough to reach threshold. Miniature end **plate** potentials are the small (~0.4mV) depolarizations of the postsynaptic terminal caused by the release of a single vesicle into the synaptic cleft. Neurotransmitter vesicles containing acetylcholine co...
239. ...ch threshold and so an action potential in the postsynaptic membrane does not occur. During experimentation with MEPPs, it was noticed that often spontaneous action potentials would occur, called end **plate** spikes in normal striated muscle without any stimulus. It was believed that these end plate spikes occurred as a result of injury or irritation of the muscles fibers due to the electrodes. Recent exp...
240. ...experimentation with MEPPs, it was noticed that often spontaneous action potentials would occur, called end plate spikes in normal striated muscle without any stimulus. It was believed that these end **plate** spikes occurred as a result of injury or irritation of the muscles fibers due to the electrodes. Recent experiments have shown that these end plate spikes are actually caused by muscle spindles and h...
241. ...ithout any stimulus. It was believed that these end plate spikes occurred as a result of injury or irritation of the muscles fibers due to the electrodes. Recent experiments have shown that these end **plate** spikes are actually caused by muscle spindles and have two distinct patterns: small and large. Small end plate spikes have a negative onset without signal propagation and large end plate spikes resem...
242. ...f the muscles fibers due to the electrodes. Recent experiments have shown that these end plate spikes are actually caused by muscle spindles and have two distinct patterns: small and large. Small end **plate** spikes have a negative onset without signal propagation and large end plate spikes resemble motor unit potentials (MUPs). Muscle spindles are sensory receptors that measure muscle elongation or stret...
243. ...at these end plate spikes are actually caused by muscle spindles and have two distinct patterns: small and large. Small end plate spikes have a negative onset without signal propagation and large end **plate** spikes resemble motor unit potentials (MUPs). Muscle spindles are sensory receptors that measure muscle elongation or stretch and relay the information to the spinal cord or brain for the appropriate...
244. ..., causing depolarization of the sarcolemma (muscle cell membrane).  The small depolarization associated with the release of acetylcholine from an individual synaptic vesicle is called a miniature end-**plate** potential (MEPP), and has a magnitude of about +0.4mV. MEPPs are additive, eventually increasing the end-plate potential (EPPs) from about -100mV up to the threshold potential of -60mV, at which leve...
245. ...e release of acetylcholine from an individual synaptic vesicle is called a miniature end-plate potential (MEPP), and has a magnitude of about +0.4mV. MEPPs are additive, eventually increasing the end-**plate** potential (EPPs) from about -100mV up to the threshold potential of -60mV, at which level the voltage-gated ion channels in the postsynaptic membrane open, allowing a sudden flow of sodium ions from...
246. ...aused by the inability of enzymes to clear away the neurotransmitters from the synaptic cleft leading to continued action potential propagation. Current research is attempting to learn more about end **plate** potentials and their effect on muscle activity. Many current diseases involve disrupted end plate potential activity. In Alzheimer patients, beta amyloid attaches to the acetylcholine receptors and i...
247. ...ing to continued action potential propagation. Current research is attempting to learn more about end plate potentials and their effect on muscle activity. Many current diseases involve disrupted end **plate** potential activity. In Alzheimer patients, beta amyloid attaches to the acetylcholine receptors and inhibits acetylcholine binding. This causes less signal propagation and small EPPs that do not reac...
248. ...akdown of acetylcholine in the neuromuscular junction, so that enough acetylcholine will be present for the small number of unblocked receptors. A congenital abnormality caused by a deficiency in end-**plate** acetylcholine esterase (AChE) might be a pathophysiologic mechanism for myasthenic gravis. In a study on a patient with AChE deficiency, doctors noted that he had developed severe proximal and trunca...
249. ...eloped severe proximal and truncal muscle weakness with jittering in other muscles. It was found that a combination of the jitter and blocking rate of the acetylcholine receptors caused a reduced end-**plate** potential similar to what is seen in cases of myasthenia gravis. Research of motor unit potentials (MUPs) has led to possible clinical applications in the evaluation of the progression of pathologica...
250. ...on and metamorphism. Rock magnetic methods are used to get a more detailed picture of the source of the distinctive striped pattern in marine magnetic anomalies that provides important information on **plate** tectonics. They are also used to interpret terrestrial magnetic anomalies in magnetic surveys as well as the strong crustal magnetism on Mars. Strongly magnetic minerals have properties that depend o...
251. ...axwell–Hertz equations, and is sometimes still known as the Maxwell–Heaviside equations; hence, it was probably Heaviside who lent D the present significance it now has. Consider an infinite parallel **plate** capacitor where the space between the plates is empty or contains a neutral, insulating medium. In both cases, the free charges are only on the metal capacitor plates. Since the flux lines D end on f...
252. ...ts, the charge density on the plates is proportional to the value of the D field between the plates. This follows directly from Gauss's law, by integrating over a small rectangular box straddling one **plate** of the capacitor: On the sides of the box, dA is perpendicular to the field, so the integral over this section is zero, as is the integral on the face that is outside the capacitor where D is zero. T...
253. ...therefore the surface of the box inside the capacitor, and hence formula_17 where "A" is the surface area of the top face of the box and formula_18 is the free surface charge density on the positive **plate**. If the space between the capacitor plates is filled with a linear homogeneous isotropic dielectric with permittivity formula_19, then there is a polarization induced in the medium, formula_20 and so...
254. ...rge to dwell on the two plates of the capacitor per unit of potential drop than would be possible if the plates were separated by vacuum. If the distance "d" between the plates of a "finite" parallel **plate** capacitor is much smaller than its lateral dimensions we can approximate it using the infinite case and obtain its capacitance as formula_23 Function generator In electrical engineering, a function g...
255. ...metal away, thereby separating, i.e. cutting through, the workpiece. Plasma cutting is an effective way of cutting thin and thick materials alike. Hand-held torches can usually cut up to thick steel **plate**, and stronger computer-controlled torches can cut steel up to thick. Since plasma cutters produce a very hot and very localized "cone" to cut with, they are extremely useful for cutting sheet metal i...
256. ...p the nozzle. Nozzle life is limited by the number of arc starts, not cutting time. Plasma cutting grew out of plasma welding in the 1960s, and emerged as a very productive way to cut sheet metal and **plate** in the 1980s. It had the advantages over traditional "metal against metal" cutting of producing no metal chips, giving accurate cuts, and producing a cleaner edge than oxy-fuel cutting. Early plasma...
257. ...lasma cutting. Producing flat profiles, where the cut edges are at 90 degrees to the material surface. High powered CNC plasma cutting beds are configured in this way, able to cut profiles from metal **plate** up to 150 mm thick. Once again, a process for producing flat profiles from sheet or plate metal, however with the introduction of an additional axis of rotation, the cutting head of a CNC plasma cutt...
258. ...ial surface. High powered CNC plasma cutting beds are configured in this way, able to cut profiles from metal plate up to 150 mm thick. Once again, a process for producing flat profiles from sheet or **plate** metal, however with the introduction of an additional axis of rotation, the cutting head of a CNC plasma cutting machine can tilt whilst being taken through a conventional 2-dimensional cutting path....
259. ...stainless steel containing a layer of thermally conductive aluminum. For frying, a pan base must be a good heat conductor to spread heat quickly and evenly. The sole of the pan will be either a steel **plate** pressed into aluminum, or a layer of stainless steel over the aluminum. Aluminum's high thermal conductivity makes the temperature more uniform across the pan. Stainless frying pans with an aluminum...
260. ...er operations allow some devices to function with the small amounts of power that can be scavenged without an attached power supply, such as a wearable EKG monitor that can run entirely on body heat. **Plate** electrode A plate, usually called anode in Britain, is a type of electrode that forms part of a vacuum tube. It is usually made of sheet metal, connected to a wire which passes through the glass enve...
261. ...w some devices to function with the small amounts of power that can be scavenged without an attached power supply, such as a wearable EKG monitor that can run entirely on body heat. Plate electrode A **plate**, usually called anode in Britain, is a type of electrode that forms part of a vacuum tube. It is usually made of sheet metal, connected to a wire which passes through the glass envelope of the tube t...
262. ...e. It is usually made of sheet metal, connected to a wire which passes through the glass envelope of the tube to a terminal in the base of the tube, where it is connected to the external circuit. The **plate** is given a positive potential, and its function is to attract and capture the electrons emitted by the cathode. Although it is sometimes a flat plate, it is more often in the shape of a cylinder or f...
263. ...here it is connected to the external circuit. The plate is given a positive potential, and its function is to attract and capture the electrons emitted by the cathode. Although it is sometimes a flat **plate**, it is more often in the shape of a cylinder or flat open-ended box surrounding the other electrodes. The plate must dissipate heat created when the electrons hit it with a high velocity after being...
264. ...tract and capture the electrons emitted by the cathode. Although it is sometimes a flat plate, it is more often in the shape of a cylinder or flat open-ended box surrounding the other electrodes. The **plate** must dissipate heat created when the electrons hit it with a high velocity after being accelerated by the voltage between the plate and cathode. Most of the waste power used in a vacuum tube is dissi...
265. ...linder or flat open-ended box surrounding the other electrodes. The plate must dissipate heat created when the electrons hit it with a high velocity after being accelerated by the voltage between the **plate** and cathode. Most of the waste power used in a vacuum tube is dissipated as heat by the plate. In low power tubes it is usually given a black coating, and often has "fins" to help it radiate heat. In...
266. ...created when the electrons hit it with a high velocity after being accelerated by the voltage between the plate and cathode. Most of the waste power used in a vacuum tube is dissipated as heat by the **plate**. In low power tubes it is usually given a black coating, and often has "fins" to help it radiate heat. In power vacuum tubes used in radio transmitters, it is often made of a refractory metal like mo...
267. ...sink that projects through the glass or ceramic tube envelope and is cooled by radiation cooling, forced air or water. A problem in early vacuum tubes was "secondary emission"; electrons striking the **plate** could knock other electrons out of the metal surface. In some tubes such as tetrodes these "secondary electrons" could be absorbed by other electrodes such as grids in the tube, resulting in a curren...
268. ...other electrons out of the metal surface. In some tubes such as tetrodes these "secondary electrons" could be absorbed by other electrodes such as grids in the tube, resulting in a current out of the **plate**. This current could cause the plate circuit to have negative resistance, which could cause unwanted parasitic oscillations. To prevent this most plates in modern tubes are given a chemical coating wh...
269. ...face. In some tubes such as tetrodes these "secondary electrons" could be absorbed by other electrodes such as grids in the tube, resulting in a current out of the plate. This current could cause the **plate** circuit to have negative resistance, which could cause unwanted parasitic oscillations. To prevent this most plates in modern tubes are given a chemical coating which reduces secondary emission. Grid...
270. ...h EAF steel production primarily used for long products, while integrated mills, using blast furnaces and basic oxygen furnaces, cornered the markets for "flat products"—sheet steel and heavier steel **plate**. In 1987, Nucor expanded into the flat products market, still using the EAF production method. An electric arc furnace used for steelmaking consists of a refractory-lined vessel, usually water-cooled...
271. ...for foils, bellow, and thin sheets. This is an autogenous process and normally does not use filler wire or powder. Medium plasma uses current between 10 and 100 amps and is used for higher-thickness **plate** welding with filler wire or autogenous up to plates and metal deposition (hardfacing) using specialised torches and powder feeders (PTA) using metal powders. High-current plasma above 100 amps is use...
272. ...23 February, a technician working for the project expressed his concerns about the claims, suggesting that the measurement was likely due to the accidental tilting of the spectrograph's photographic **plate** while the experimental run was being set up. Richter refused to re-run the experiment. Instead, a week later he ordered the reactor to be disassembled so a new one could be built that included a magn...
273. ...k cords for its prime conductors. Johann Heinrich Winckler, professor of physics at Leipzig, substituted a leather cushion for the hand. During 1746, Jan Ingenhousz invented electric machines made of **plate** glass. Experiments with the electric machine were largely aided by the invention of the Leyden Jar. This early form of the capacitor, with conductive coatings on either side of the glass, can accumul...
274. ...irst pith-ball electroscope) improved the efficiency of electric machines by sprinkling an amalgam of tin over the surface of the rubber. In 1768, Jesse Ramsden constructed a widely used version of a **plate** electrical generator. In 1783, Dutch scientist Martin van Marum of Haarlem designed a large electrostatic machine of high quality with glass disks 1.65 meters in diameter for his experiments. Capable...
275. ...hich is continually being replenished and reinforced. The first suggestion of an influence machine appears to have grown out of the invention of Volta's "electrophorus". The electrophorus is a single-**plate** capacitor used to produce imbalances of electric charge via the process of electrostatic induction. The next step was when Abraham Bennet, the inventor of the gold leaf electroscope, described a ""do...
276. ...own as corona motor, has been known for centuries. In 2004, researchers at University of California, Berkeley, developed rotational bearings based upon multiwall carbon nanotubes. By attaching a gold **plate** (with dimensions of the order of 100 nm) to the outer shell of a suspended multiwall carbon nanotube (like nested carbon cylinders), they are able to electrostatically rotate the outer shell relative...
277. ...e on the upwards side to maximise the positive charge on the outbound pellet. At the top the situation is reversed, so at top roller, the arriving pellets experience the field of a negatively charged **plate**, and the departing ones a positively charged one, again to maximise charge transfer to the roller and top electrode.  The system is enclosed by a pressure vessel filled with insulating gas, such as S...
278. ...ectrical friction" example, where the hydraulic analog is a pipe filled with sponge material, illustrates the problem: the model must be increased in complexity beyond any realistic scenario. Glowing **plate** A glowing plate in a vacuum tube circuit indicates that the tube is drawing excessive current. This causes the anode ("plate") to overheat and radiate a visible red or orange glow. In consumer electr...
279. ...n" example, where the hydraulic analog is a pipe filled with sponge material, illustrates the problem: the model must be increased in complexity beyond any realistic scenario. Glowing plate A glowing **plate** in a vacuum tube circuit indicates that the tube is drawing excessive current. This causes the anode ("plate") to overheat and radiate a visible red or orange glow. In consumer electronics, this is u...
280. ...del must be increased in complexity beyond any realistic scenario. Glowing plate A glowing plate in a vacuum tube circuit indicates that the tube is drawing excessive current. This causes the anode ("**plate**") to overheat and radiate a visible red or orange glow. In consumer electronics, this is universally indicative that the tube is experiencing an overload condition, though the reasons for the overloa...
281. ...ction heating tubes) have silica envelopes and/or graphite or zirconium coated tantalum plates which are intended to operate at glowing temperatures and thus employ "radiation cooling". The zirconium **plate** coating acts as a getter, and proper getter action in these tubes depends on the plate running at high temperatures. Such tubes may develop excessive gas content if underloaded for long periods of ti...
282. ...plates which are intended to operate at glowing temperatures and thus employ "radiation cooling". The zirconium plate coating acts as a getter, and proper getter action in these tubes depends on the **plate** running at high temperatures. Such tubes may develop excessive gas content if underloaded for long periods of time. One trade name for this type of plate coating is Eimac's "pyrovac". In consumer equ...
283. ...r getter action in these tubes depends on the plate running at high temperatures. Such tubes may develop excessive gas content if underloaded for long periods of time. One trade name for this type of **plate** coating is Eimac's "pyrovac". In consumer equipment, it is usually a sign of a shorted or badly mistuned load, or a badly out-of-bias condition. When testing, repairing or restoring vacuum tube-based...
284. ...ut-of-bias condition. When testing, repairing or restoring vacuum tube-based equipment, it is wise to watch the plates of all the tubes for this condition. If the tube is overloaded, not only can the **plate** warp, causing a short to outer grids or beam-shaping elements, but the emissive layer on the cathode will be consumed very quickly. The equipment's power supply and the tube's load (output transforme...
285. ...wer supply and the tube's load (output transformers, flyback transformers, etc.) are likely to be damaged by a sustained overload condition, so power should be immediately disconnected when a glowing **plate** is found. In modern-day repair and maintenance of early tube-based consumer electronics devices, a glowing plate will be rarely encountered. As a visible symptom of a destructive failure, checking fo...
286. ...stained overload condition, so power should be immediately disconnected when a glowing plate is found. In modern-day repair and maintenance of early tube-based consumer electronics devices, a glowing **plate** will be rarely encountered. As a visible symptom of a destructive failure, checking for an overheated tube is essential to ensure the safe and reliable operation of the equipment undergoing maintenan...
287. ...a visible symptom of a destructive failure, checking for an overheated tube is essential to ensure the safe and reliable operation of the equipment undergoing maintenance.  Most frequently, a glowing **plate** overload will be found in rectifiers and output tubes. In particular:  If any tube presents a glowing plate, the equipment should be shut down immediately to avoid further damage. Magnetic switchable...
288. ...and reliable operation of the equipment undergoing maintenance.  Most frequently, a glowing plate overload will be found in rectifiers and output tubes. In particular:  If any tube presents a glowing **plate**, the equipment should be shut down immediately to avoid further damage. Magnetic switchable device A magnetic switchable device (often called a magnetic base) is a magnetic fixture that uses one or m...
289. ...ss called secondary emission, a single electron can, when bombarded on secondary-emissive material, induce emission of roughly 1 to 3 electrons. If an electric potential is applied between this metal **plate** and yet another, the emitted electrons will accelerate to the next metal plate and induce secondary emission of still more electrons. This can be repeated a number of times, resulting in a large show...
290. ...y-emissive material, induce emission of roughly 1 to 3 electrons. If an electric potential is applied between this metal plate and yet another, the emitted electrons will accelerate to the next metal **plate** and induce secondary emission of still more electrons. This can be repeated a number of times, resulting in a large shower of electrons all collected by a metal anode, all having been triggered by ju...
291. ...alled a Channel Electron Multiplier (CEM). CEMs required 2-4 kilovolts in order to achieve a gain of 10 electrons. Another geometry of continuous-dynode electron multiplier is called the microchannel **plate** (MCP). It may be considered a 2-dimensional parallel array of very small continuous-dynode electron multipliers, built together and powered in parallel. Each microchannel is generally parallel-walled...
292. ...ot tapered or funnel-like. MCPs are constructed from lead glass and carry a resistance of 10 Ω between each electrode. Each channel has a diameter of 10-100 μm. The electron gain for one microchannel **plate** can be around 10-10 electrons. In mass spectrometry electron multipliers are often used as a detector of ions that have been separated by a mass analyzer of some sort. They can be the continuous-dyno...
293. ...n. The map of the work function produced by KPFM gives information about the composition and electronic state of the local structures on the surface of a solid. The SKP technique is based on parallel **plate** capacitor experiments performed by Lord Kelvin in 1898. In the 1930s William Zisman built upon Lord Kelvin's experiments to develop a technique to measure contact potential differences of dissimilar...
294. ...riments to develop a technique to measure contact potential differences of dissimilar metals. In SKP the probe and sample are held parallel to each other and electrically connected to form a parallel **plate** capacitor. The probe is selected to be of a different material to the sample, therefore each component initially has a distinct Fermi level. When electrical connection is made between the probe and t...
295. ...itor or tuning condenser), or as a variable reactance, e.g. for impedance matching in antenna tuners. In mechanically controlled variable capacitors, the distance between the plates, or the amount of **plate** surface area which overlaps, can be changed. The most common form arranges a group of semicircular metal plates on a rotary axis ("rotor") that are positioned in the gaps between a set of stationary...
296. ...sing a screw. These so-called "squeezers" cannot provide a stable and reproducible capacitance, however. A variant of this structure that allows for linear movement of one set of plates to change the **plate** overlap area is also used and might be called a "slider". This has practical advantages for makeshift or home construction, and may be found in resonant-loop antennas or crystal radios. Small variabl...
297. ...es in ten years' time is that its first issue is surprisingly good. Brian Michael Bendis bucks his own trend of decompression in this issue, and this issue shows "Spider-Woman" has a good deal on its **plate**. The book details Jessica Drew's mental status post-"Secret Invasion", a run-in with Abigail Brand and subsequent drafting into S.W.O.R.D., and deployment on her first official mission. Bendis covers...
298. ...up visual images of a Spindt emitter. A variety of materials have been developed for field emitter arrays, ranging from silicon to semiconductor fabricated molybdenum tips with integrated gates to a **plate** of randomly distributed carbon nanotubes with a separate gate structure suspended above. The advantages of field emission technologies over alternative electron emission methods are: One major issue...
299. ...ouble layer phenomenon has been conducted by several people. One type of hollow cathode consists of a metal tube lined with a sintered barium oxide impregnated tungsten insert, capped at one end by a **plate** with a small orifice, as shown in the below figure. Electrons are emitted from the barium oxide impregnated insert by thermionic emission. A noble gas flows into the insert region of the HC and is pa...
300. ...n in an electric field between two electrode plates. The charge carriers are typically electrons, The amount of charge stored per unit voltage is essentially a function of the size of the plates, the **plate** material's properties, the properties of the dielectric material placed between the plates, and the separation distance (i.e. dielectric thickness). The potential between the plates is limited by the...
301. ...the properties of the dielectric material and the separation distance. Nearly all conventional industrial capacitors except some special styles such as "feed-through capacitors", are constructed as "**plate** capacitors" even if their electrodes and the dielectric between are wound or rolled. The capacitance, "C", of a plate capacitors is: The capacitance increases with the area "A" of the plates and with...
302. ...except some special styles such as "feed-through capacitors", are constructed as "plate capacitors" even if their electrodes and the dielectric between are wound or rolled. The capacitance, "C", of a **plate** capacitors is: The capacitance increases with the area "A" of the plates and with the permittivity "ε" of the dielectric material, and decreases with the plate separation distance "d". The capacitanc...
303. ...d or rolled. The capacitance, "C", of a plate capacitors is: The capacitance increases with the area "A" of the plates and with the permittivity "ε" of the dielectric material, and decreases with the **plate** separation distance "d". The capacitance is therefore greatest in devices made from materials with a high permittivity, large plate area, and small distance between plates. Another type – the electro...
304. ...permittivity "ε" of the dielectric material, and decreases with the plate separation distance "d". The capacitance is therefore greatest in devices made from materials with a high permittivity, large **plate** area, and small distance between plates. Another type – the electrochemical capacitor – makes use of two other storage principles to store electric energy. In contrast to ceramic, film, and electroly...
305. ...cally at the surface of electrodes The most important material parameters of the different dielectrics used and the approximate Helmholtz-layer thickness are given in the table below. The capacitor's **plate** area can be adapted to the wanted capacitance value. The permittivity and the dielectric thickness are the determining parameter for capacitors. Ease of processing is also crucial. Thin, mechanically...
306. ...pacitance changed by mechanical motion. There are two main types: Variable capacitors include capacitors that use a mechanical construction to change the distance between the plates, or the amount of **plate** surface area which overlaps. They mostly use air as dielectric medium. Semiconductive variable capacitance diodes are not capacitors in the sense of passive components but can change their capacitanc...
307. ...is mainly caused by the leads and internal connections used to connect the capacitor plates to the outside world. Large capacitors tend to have higher ESL than small ones because the distances to the **plate** are longer and every mm counts as an inductance. For any discrete capacitor, there is a frequency above DC at which it ceases to behave as a pure capacitor. This frequency, where formula_24 is as hig...
308. ...d before they are used. The capacitance value depends on the dielectric material (ε), the surface of the electrodes (A) and the distance (d) separating the electrodes and is given by the formula of a **plate** capacitor: The separation of the electrodes and the voltage proof of the dielectric material defines the breakdown voltage of the capacitor. The breakdown voltage is proportional to the thickness of...
309. ...y, given two capacitors with the same mechanical dimensions and dielectric, but one of them have half the thickness of the dielectric. With the same dimensions this one could place twice the parallel-**plate** area inside. This capacitor has theoretically 4 times the capacitance as the first capacitor but half of the voltage proof. Since the energy density stored in a capacitor is given by: thus a capacito...
310. ...ciency during cycling. A lithium–sulfur system arranged in a network of nanoparticles eliminates the requirement that charge moves in and out of particles that are in direct contact with a conducting **plate**. Instead, the nanoparticle network allows electricity to flow throughout the liquid. This allows more energy to be extracted. In a semi-solid flow battery, positive and negative electrode particles a...
311. ...d switch transition losses. Switch turn-on and turn-off losses are easily lumped together as where: but this does not take into account the parasitic capacitance of the MOSFET which makes the "Miller **plate**". Then, the switch losses will be more like: When a MOSFET is used for the lower switch, additional losses may occur during the time between the turn-off of the high-side switch and the turn-on of th...
312. ...d rhodium in 1804. Wollaston made improvements to the galvanic battery (named after Galvani) in the 1810s. In Wollaston's battery, the wooden box was replaced with an earthenware vessel, and a copper **plate** was bent into a U-shape, with a single plate of zinc placed in the center of the bent copper. The zinc plate was prevented from making contact with the copper by dowels (pieces) of cork or wood. In h...
313. ...s to the galvanic battery (named after Galvani) in the 1810s. In Wollaston's battery, the wooden box was replaced with an earthenware vessel, and a copper plate was bent into a U-shape, with a single **plate** of zinc placed in the center of the bent copper. The zinc plate was prevented from making contact with the copper by dowels (pieces) of cork or wood. In his single cell design, the U-shaped copper pl...
314. ...Wollaston's battery, the wooden box was replaced with an earthenware vessel, and a copper plate was bent into a U-shape, with a single plate of zinc placed in the center of the bent copper. The zinc **plate** was prevented from making contact with the copper by dowels (pieces) of cork or wood. In his single cell design, the U-shaped copper plate was welded to a horizontal handle for lifting the copper and...
315. ...te of zinc placed in the center of the bent copper. The zinc plate was prevented from making contact with the copper by dowels (pieces) of cork or wood. In his single cell design, the U-shaped copper **plate** was welded to a horizontal handle for lifting the copper and zinc plates out of the electrolyte when the battery was not in use. In 1809, Samuel Thomas von Soemmering developed the first telegraph. H...
316. ...oxides, sulphuric acid and water, which was then cured by gentle warming in a humid atmosphere. The curing process caused the paste to change to a mixture of lead sulphates which adhered to the lead **plate**. During charging the cured paste was converted into electrochemically active material (the "active mass") and gave a substantial increase in capacity compared with Planté's battery. It was a signific...
317. ...simulation results and analytical formulation, cross-comparison between codes, and comparison of simulation results with measurement. For example, assessing the value of the radar cross section of a **plate** with the analytical formula: formula_7 where A is the surface of the plate and formula_8 is the wavelength. The next curve presenting the RCS of a plate computed at 35 GHz can be used as reference ex...
318. ...des, and comparison of simulation results with measurement. For example, assessing the value of the radar cross section of a plate with the analytical formula: formula_7 where A is the surface of the **plate** and formula_8 is the wavelength. The next curve presenting the RCS of a plate computed at 35 GHz can be used as reference example. One example is the cross comparison of results from method of moment...
319. ...sing the value of the radar cross section of a plate with the analytical formula: formula_7 where A is the surface of the plate and formula_8 is the wavelength. The next curve presenting the RCS of a **plate** computed at 35 GHz can be used as reference example. One example is the cross comparison of results from method of moments and asymptotic methods in their validity domains. The final validation step...
320. ...cant limitation on the high frequency performance of amplifying devices. The screen grid was added to triode vacuum tubes in the 1920s to reduce parasitic capacitance between the control grid and the **plate**, creating the tetrode, which resulted in a great increase in operating frequency. In bipolar junction transistors, the parasitic capacitances between the base and collector or emitter have voltage de...
321. ...st cards for long periods where no programming was scheduled. Patterns associated with Philips (PM 5540, PM 5552, PM 5544, PM 5644), Grundig VG 1001 (FuBk) SMPTE (Color Bars), or Snell & Wilcox (Zone **Plate**) generators are generally well known. A few specialized signals are used in digital environments: In addition, sophisticated signal generators may allow modification of the video timing, adjustment o...
322. ...vice engineering which significantly enhanced the cooling efficiency and performance of EC devices. In 2020, researchers demonstrated an active EC regenerator, with the innovation involved a parallel-**plate** design using lead scandium tantalate (PST) multilayer capacitors, optimized through finite element modeling to enhance insulation and heat transfer. The prototype achieved a temperature span of 13 K,...
323. ...rect values at the boundaries. The simplest example of method of image charges is that of a point charge, with charge "q", located at formula_1 above an infinite grounded (i.e.: formula_2) conducting **plate** in the "xy"-plane. To simplify this problem, we may replace the plate of equipotential with a charge −"q", located at formula_3. This arrangement will produce the same electric field at any point for...
324. ...charges is that of a point charge, with charge "q", located at formula_1 above an infinite grounded (i.e.: formula_2) conducting plate in the "xy"-plane. To simplify this problem, we may replace the **plate** of equipotential with a charge −"q", located at formula_3. This arrangement will produce the same electric field at any point for which formula_4 (i.e., above the conducting plate), and satisfies the...
325. ...we may replace the plate of equipotential with a charge −"q", located at formula_3. This arrangement will produce the same electric field at any point for which formula_4 (i.e., above the conducting **plate**), and satisfies the boundary condition that the potential along the plate must be zero. This situation is equivalent to the original setup, and so the force on the real charge can now be calculated w...
326. ...formula_3. This arrangement will produce the same electric field at any point for which formula_4 (i.e., above the conducting plate), and satisfies the boundary condition that the potential along the **plate** must be zero. This situation is equivalent to the original setup, and so the force on the real charge can now be calculated with Coulomb's law between two point charges. The potential at any point in...
327. ...lied across the terminals of a capacitor, for example when a capacitor is connected across a battery, an electric field develops across the dielectric, causing a net positive charge to collect on one **plate** and net negative charge to collect on the other plate. No current actually flows through a perfect dielectric. However, there is a flow of charge through the source circuit. If the condition is maint...
328. ...when a capacitor is connected across a battery, an electric field develops across the dielectric, causing a net positive charge to collect on one plate and net negative charge to collect on the other **plate**. No current actually flows through a perfect dielectric. However, there is a flow of charge through the source circuit. If the condition is maintained sufficiently long, the current through the sourc...
329. ...ric, since manufacturers try to keep the dielectric very uniform in thickness to avoid thin spots which can cause failure of the capacitor. Since the separation between the plates is uniform over the **plate** area, the electric field between the plates formula_9 is constant, and directed perpendicularly to the plate surface, except for an area near the edges of the plates where the field decreases because...
330. ...ause failure of the capacitor. Since the separation between the plates is uniform over the plate area, the electric field between the plates formula_9 is constant, and directed perpendicularly to the **plate** surface, except for an area near the edges of the plates where the field decreases because the electric field lines "bulge" out of the sides of the capacitor. This "fringing field" area is approximat...
331. ...ea near the edges of the plates where the field decreases because the electric field lines "bulge" out of the sides of the capacitor. This "fringing field" area is approximately the same width as the **plate** separation, formula_6, and assuming formula_6 is small compared to the plate dimensions, it is small enough to be ignored. Therefore, if a charge of formula_12 is placed on one plate and formula_13 o...
332. ...c field lines "bulge" out of the sides of the capacitor. This "fringing field" area is approximately the same width as the plate separation, formula_6, and assuming formula_6 is small compared to the **plate** dimensions, it is small enough to be ignored. Therefore, if a charge of formula_12 is placed on one plate and formula_13 on the other plate (the situation for unevenly charged plates is discussed bel...
333. ...ame width as the plate separation, formula_6, and assuming formula_6 is small compared to the plate dimensions, it is small enough to be ignored. Therefore, if a charge of formula_12 is placed on one **plate** and formula_13 on the other plate (the situation for unevenly charged plates is discussed below), the charge on each plate will be spread evenly in a surface charge layer of constant charge density f...
334. ...formula_6, and assuming formula_6 is small compared to the plate dimensions, it is small enough to be ignored. Therefore, if a charge of formula_12 is placed on one plate and formula_13 on the other **plate** (the situation for unevenly charged plates is discussed below), the charge on each plate will be spread evenly in a surface charge layer of constant charge density formula_14 coulombs per square mete...
335. ...enough to be ignored. Therefore, if a charge of formula_12 is placed on one plate and formula_13 on the other plate (the situation for unevenly charged plates is discussed below), the charge on each **plate** will be spread evenly in a surface charge layer of constant charge density formula_14 coulombs per square meter, on the inside surface of each plate. From Gauss's law the magnitude of the electric fi...
336. ...ged plates is discussed below), the charge on each plate will be spread evenly in a surface charge layer of constant charge density formula_14 coulombs per square meter, on the inside surface of each **plate**. From Gauss's law the magnitude of the electric field between the plates is formula_15. The voltage(difference) formula_16 between the plates is defined as the line integral of the electric field ove...
337. ...electric field between the plates is formula_15. The voltage(difference) formula_16 between the plates is defined as the line integral of the electric field over a line (in the z-direction) from one **plate** to another formula_17 The capacitance is defined as formula_18. Substituting formula_16 above into this equation Therefore, in a capacitor the highest capacitance is achieved with a high permittivity...
338. ...apacitance is defined as formula_18. Substituting formula_16 above into this equation Therefore, in a capacitor the highest capacitance is achieved with a high permittivity dielectric material, large **plate** area, and small separation between the plates. Since the area formula_5 of the plates increases with the square of the linear dimensions and the separation formula_6 increases linearly, the capacitan...
339. ...e of the linear dimensions and the separation formula_6 increases linearly, the capacitance scales with the linear dimension of a capacitor (formula_22), or as the cube root of the volume. A parallel **plate** capacitor can only store a finite amount of energy before dielectric breakdown occurs. The capacitor's dielectric material has a dielectric strength "U" which sets the capacitor's breakdown voltage a...
340. ...eakdown voltage at . The maximum energy that the capacitor can store is therefore formula_23 The maximum energy is a function of dielectric volume, permittivity, and dielectric strength. Changing the **plate** area and the separation between the plates while maintaining the same volume causes no change of the maximum amount of energy that the capacitor can store, so long as the distance between plates rema...
341. ...r. This is sometimes called parasitic capacitance. For some simple capacitor geometries this additional capacitance term can be calculated analytically. It becomes negligibly small when the ratios of **plate** width to separation and length to separation are large. For unevenly charged plates: For formula_37 number of plates in a capacitor, the total capacitance would be formula_38 where formula_39 is the...
342. ...length to separation are large. For unevenly charged plates: For formula_37 number of plates in a capacitor, the total capacitance would be formula_38 where formula_39 is the capacitance for a single **plate** and formula_37 is the number of interleaved plates. As shown to the figure on the right, the interleaved plates can be seen as parallel plates connected to each other. Every pair of adjacent plates a...
343. ...he number of plates, hence the formula_41 multiplier. To increase the charge and voltage on a capacitor, work must be done by an external power source to move charge from the negative to the positive **plate** against the opposing force of the electric field. If the voltage on the capacitor is formula_16, the work formula_43 required to move a small increment of charge formula_44 from the negative to the p...
344. ...the opposing force of the electric field. If the voltage on the capacitor is formula_16, the work formula_43 required to move a small increment of charge formula_44 from the negative to the positive **plate** is formula_45. The energy is stored in the increased electric field between the plates. The total energy formula_46 stored in a capacitor (expressed in joules) is equal to the total work done in esta...
345. ...s the capacitor, and formula_50 is the capacitance. This potential energy will remain in the capacitor until the charge is removed. If charge is allowed to move back from the positive to the negative **plate**, for example by connecting a circuit with resistance between the plates, the charge moving under the influence of the electric field will do work on the external circuit. If the gap between the capac...
346. ...between the plates, the charge moving under the influence of the electric field will do work on the external circuit. If the gap between the capacitor plates formula_6 is constant, as in the parallel **plate** model above, the electric field between the plates will be uniform (neglecting fringing fields) and will have a constant value formula_52. In this case the stored energy can be calculated from the el...
347. ...as the rate of flow of a charge "Q"("t") passing through it. Actual charges – electrons – cannot pass through the dielectric of an "ideal" capacitor. Rather, one electron accumulates on the negative **plate** for each one that leaves the positive plate, resulting in an electron depletion and consequent positive charge on one electrode that is equal and opposite to the accumulated negative charge on the ot...
348. ...ssing through it. Actual charges – electrons – cannot pass through the dielectric of an "ideal" capacitor. Rather, one electron accumulates on the negative plate for each one that leaves the positive **plate**, resulting in an electron depletion and consequent positive charge on one electrode that is equal and opposite to the accumulated negative charge on the other. Thus the charge on the electrodes is eq...
349. ...nts increase the electric field strength at that point and can lead to a local breakdown. Once this starts to happen, the breakdown quickly tracks through the dielectric until it reaches the opposite **plate**, leaving carbon behind and causing a short (or relatively low resistance) circuit. The results can be explosive, as the short in the capacitor draws current from the surrounding circuitry and dissipa...
350. ...in older vacuum tube circuits, particularly where oiled paper and foil capacitors were used. In many vacuum tube circuits, interstage coupling capacitors are used to conduct a varying signal from the **plate** of one tube to the grid circuit of the next stage. A leaky capacitor can cause the grid circuit voltage to be raised from its normal bias setting, causing excessive current or signal distortion in th...
351. ...ccurs in circuits wherever the simple conductor-insulator-conductor structure is formed unintentionally by the configuration of the circuit layout. Electrolytic capacitors use an aluminum or tantalum **plate** with an oxide dielectric layer. The second electrode is a liquid electrolyte, connected to the circuit by another foil plate. Electrolytic capacitors offer very high capacitance but suffer from poor...
352. ...of the circuit layout. Electrolytic capacitors use an aluminum or tantalum plate with an oxide dielectric layer. The second electrode is a liquid electrolyte, connected to the circuit by another foil **plate**. Electrolytic capacitors offer very high capacitance but suffer from poor tolerances, high instability, gradual loss of capacitance especially when subjected to heat, and high leakage current. Poor q...
353. ...oltage with charge is governed by: formula_91 where the voltage dependence of capacitance, , suggests that the capacitance is a function of the electric field strength, which in a large area parallel **plate** device is given by . This field polarizes the dielectric, which polarization, in the case of a ferroelectric, is a nonlinear "S"-shaped function of the electric field, which, in the case of a large a...
354. ...ven by . This field polarizes the dielectric, which polarization, in the case of a ferroelectric, is a nonlinear "S"-shaped function of the electric field, which, in the case of a large area parallel **plate** device, translates into a capacitance that is a nonlinear function of the voltage. Corresponding to the voltage-dependent capacitance, to charge the capacitor to voltage an integral relation is found...
355. ...angular frequency , is the "real" part of the current, called the "conductance", and determines the "imaginary" part of the current and is the "capacitance". is the complex impedance. When a parallel-**plate** capacitor is filled with a dielectric, the measurement of dielectric properties of the medium is based upon the relation: formula_98 where a single "prime" denotes the real part and a double "prime"...
356. ...able high-frequency effects due to the leads and simplify automated assembly, although manual handling is made difficult due to their small size. Mechanically controlled variable capacitors allow the **plate** spacing to be adjusted, for example by rotating or sliding a set of movable plates into alignment with a set of stationary plates. Low cost variable capacitors squeeze together alternating layers of...
357. ...d capacitors. The layers in the board contributing to the capacitive properties also function as power and ground planes, and have a dielectric in between them, enabling them to operate as a parallel **plate** capacitor. When an inductive circuit is opened, the current through the inductance collapses quickly, creating a large voltage across the open circuit of the switch or relay. If the inductance is lar...
358. ...hese units. These are called "grading capacitors". In schematic diagrams, a capacitor used primarily for DC charge storage is often drawn vertically in circuit diagrams with the lower, more negative, **plate** drawn as an arc. The straight plate indicates the positive terminal of the device, if it is polarized (see electrolytic capacitor). In single phase squirrel cage motors, the primary winding within th...
359. ...g capacitors". In schematic diagrams, a capacitor used primarily for DC charge storage is often drawn vertically in circuit diagrams with the lower, more negative, plate drawn as an arc. The straight **plate** indicates the positive terminal of the device, if it is polarized (see electrolytic capacitor). In single phase squirrel cage motors, the primary winding within the motor housing is not capable of st...
360. ...ted inductors. Electromagnetic behavior is governed by Maxwell's equations, and all parasitic extraction requires solving some form of Maxwell's equations. That form may be a simple analytic parallel **plate** capacitance equation or may involve a full numerical solution for a complex 3D geometry with wave propagation. In layout extraction, analytic formulas for simple or simplified geometry can be used wh...
361. ...or" in such machines, this consisting of an iron rod held in the hand of a person whose body was insulated by standing on a block of resin. Ingenhousz, during 1746, invented electric machines made of **plate** glass. Experiments with the electric machine were largely aided by the discovery that a glass plate, coated on both sides with tinfoil, would accumulate electric charge when connected with a source o...
362. ...ulated by standing on a block of resin. Ingenhousz, during 1746, invented electric machines made of plate glass. Experiments with the electric machine were largely aided by the discovery that a glass **plate**, coated on both sides with tinfoil, would accumulate electric charge when connected with a source of electromotive force. The electric machine was soon further improved by Andrew Gordon, a Scotsman,...
363. ...nction of two metals that had been soldered together an electric current is set up. This is termed thermoelectricity. Seebeck's device consists of a strip of copper bent at each end and soldered to a **plate** of bismuth. A magnetic needle is placed parallel with the copper strip. When the heat of a lamp is applied to the junction of the copper and bismuth an electric current is set up which deflects the n...
364. ...til the equilibrium is obtained". These oscillations were subsequently observed by B. W. Feddersen (1857) who using a rotating concave mirror projected an image of the electric spark upon a sensitive **plate**, thereby obtaining a photograph of the spark which plainly indicated the alternating nature of the discharge. Sir William Thomson was also the discoverer of the electric convection of heat (the "Thom...
365. ...or "constant", type. The open type in brief is that type which operated on closed circuit becomes, after a short time, polarized; that is, gases are liberated in the cell which settle on the negative **plate** and establish a resistance that reduces the current strength. After a brief interval of open circuit these gases are eliminated or absorbed and the cell is again ready for operation. Closed circuit c...
366. ...re, radically differed. The mathematicians assumed that insulators were barriers to electric currents; that, for instance, in a Leyden jar or electric condenser the electricity was accumulated at one **plate** and that by some occult action at a distance electricity of an opposite kind was attracted to the other plate. Maxwell, looking further than Faraday, reasoned that if light is an electromagnetic phen...
367. ...or instance, in a Leyden jar or electric condenser the electricity was accumulated at one plate and that by some occult action at a distance electricity of an opposite kind was attracted to the other **plate**. Maxwell, looking further than Faraday, reasoned that if light is an electromagnetic phenomenon and is transmissible through dielectrics such as glass, the phenomenon must be in the nature of electro...
368. ...allowing for a specific heating profile track and subsequent compliance feedback – something that is not generally practical for conduction heating processes. Conduction sealing requires a hard metal **plate** to make perfect contact with the container being sealed. Conduction sealing systems delay production time because of required system warm-up time. They also have complex temperature sensors and heate...
369. ...y experimental apparatus consisted of planar parallel plates forming two sides of a chamber filled with a gas. A direct-current high-voltage source was connected between the plates, the lower-voltage **plate** being the cathode and the upper-voltage the anode. He forced the cathode to emit electrons using the photoelectric effect by irradiating it with x-rays, and he found that the current flowing through...
370. ...by irradiating it with x-rays, and he found that the current flowing through the chamber depended on the electric field between the plates. However, this current showed an exponential increase as the **plate** gaps became small, leading to the conclusion that the gas ions were multiplying as they moved between the plates due to the high electric field. Townsend observed currents varying exponentially over...
371. ...tion. The name "pogo pin" comes from the pin's resemblance to a pogo stickthe integrated helical spring in the pin applies a constant normal force against the back of the mating receptacle or contact **plate**, counteracting any unwanted movement which might otherwise cause an intermittent connection. This helical spring makes pogo pins unique, since most other types of pin mechanisms use a cantilever spri...
372. ...d phosphorus-33 are in the window of 361–660; and phosphorus-32 is in the window of 661–1024. In liquid scintillation counting, a small aliquot, filter or swab is added to scintillation fluid and the **plate** or vial is placed in a scintillation counter to measure the radioactive emissions. Manufacturers have incorporated solid scintillants into multi-well plates to eliminate the need for scintillation fl...
373. ...t, attached to a wire with a clip on the end to connect it to a ground conductor. The fibers are usually made of carbon or carbon-filled rubber, and the strap is bound with a stainless steel clasp or **plate**. They are usually used in conjunction with an antistatic mat on the workbench, or a special static-dissipating plastic laminate on the workbench surface. The wrist strap is usually worn on the nondom...
374. ...d using the VDBD configuration At SDBD the microdischarges are limited to the surface, therefore their density is higher compared to the VDBD. The plasma is generated on top of the surface of an SDBD **plate**. To easily ignite VDBD and obtain a uniformly distributed discharge in the gap, a pre-ionization DBD can be used. A particular compact and economic DBD plasma generator can be built based on the prin...
375. ...-turn pots have a linear track rather than a circular one. Typically, a worm gear is used with rotary track presets and a leadscrew is used with linear track presets. Trimming capacitors can be multi-**plate** parallel-plate capacitors with a dielectric for between plates for increased capacitance. However, at SHF only very small values of capacitance are needed. Presets at these frequencies are commonly a...
376. ...a linear track rather than a circular one. Typically, a worm gear is used with rotary track presets and a leadscrew is used with linear track presets. Trimming capacitors can be multi-plate parallel-**plate** capacitors with a dielectric for between plates for increased capacitance. However, at SHF only very small values of capacitance are needed. Presets at these frequencies are commonly a glass tube wit...
377. ...r between plates for increased capacitance. However, at SHF only very small values of capacitance are needed. Presets at these frequencies are commonly a glass tube with plates at either end. The top **plate** is adjusted by means of a screw to which it is attached at the top of the cylinder. A common way of making preset inductors in radios is to wind the inductor on a plastic tube. A high permeability co...
378. ...um operating temperature of the clutch is limited by the temperature rating of the insulation of the electromagnet. This is a major limitation. Another disadvantage is higher initial cost. A friction-**plate** clutch uses a single plate friction surface to engage the input and output members of the clutch. When the clutch is actuated, current flows through the electromagnet producing a magnetic field. The...
379. ...the clutch is limited by the temperature rating of the insulation of the electromagnet. This is a major limitation. Another disadvantage is higher initial cost. A friction-plate clutch uses a single **plate** friction surface to engage the input and output members of the clutch. When the clutch is actuated, current flows through the electromagnet producing a magnetic field. The rotor portion of the clutch...
380. ...y, each capacitor is electrically tested to ensure functionality and adequate performance, and packaged in a tape reel. The capacitance formula ("C") of a MLCC capacitor is based on the formula for a **plate** capacitor enhanced with the number of layers: formula_1  where "ε" stands for dielectric permittivity; "A" for electrode surface area; n for the number of layers; and "d" for the distance between the...
381. ...l capacitors is mainly caused by the leads and internal connections used to connect the plates to the outside world. Larger capacitors tend to higher ESL than small ones, because the distances to the **plate** are longer and every millimeter increases inductance. Ceramic capacitors, which are available in the range of very small capacitance values (pF and higher) are already out of their smaller capacitanc...
382. ...ination motor/generator is used first as a motor to spin the tires up to speed prior to touchdown, thus reducing wear on the tires, and then as a generator to provide regenerative braking. A friction-**plate** brake uses a single plate friction surface to engage the input and output members of the clutch. Single face electromagnetic brakes make up approximately 80% of all of the power applied brake applica...
383. ...used first as a motor to spin the tires up to speed prior to touchdown, thus reducing wear on the tires, and then as a generator to provide regenerative braking. A friction-plate brake uses a single **plate** friction surface to engage the input and output members of the clutch. Single face electromagnetic brakes make up approximately 80% of all of the power applied brake applications. Power off brakes st...
384. ...main types of holding brakes. The first is spring applied brakes. The second is permanent magnet brakes. Spring type - When no electricity is applied to the brake, a spring pushes against a pressure **plate**, squeezing the friction disk between the inner pressure plate and the outer cover plate. This frictional clamping force is transferred to the hub, which is mounted to a shaft. Permanent magnet type –...
385. ...kes. The second is permanent magnet brakes. Spring type - When no electricity is applied to the brake, a spring pushes against a pressure plate, squeezing the friction disk between the inner pressure **plate** and the outer cover plate. This frictional clamping force is transferred to the hub, which is mounted to a shaft. Permanent magnet type – A permanent magnet holding brake looks very similar to a stan...
386. ...nt magnet brakes. Spring type - When no electricity is applied to the brake, a spring pushes against a pressure plate, squeezing the friction disk between the inner pressure plate and the outer cover **plate**. This frictional clamping force is transferred to the hub, which is mounted to a shaft. Permanent magnet type – A permanent magnet holding brake looks very similar to a standard power applied electro...
387. ...erted into hydrogen atoms and H molecules. In the extreme case, bubbles of hydrogen gas might appear at one of the electrodes. If such a layer of hydrogen or even H gas bubbles appear on the positive **plate** of a battery, they interfere with the chemical action of the cell. An electrode covered with gases is said to be "polarized". Polarization in galvanic cells causes the voltage and thus current to be...
388. ...ell. An electrode covered with gases is said to be "polarized". Polarization in galvanic cells causes the voltage and thus current to be reduced, especially if the bubbles cover a large fraction of a **plate**. Depolarizers are substances which are intended to remove the hydrogen, and therefore, they help to keep the voltage at a high level. However, this concept is outdated, since if enough depolarizer is...
389. ..., they help to keep the voltage at a high level. However, this concept is outdated, since if enough depolarizer is present, it will react directly in most cases by getting electrons from the positive **plate** of the galvanic cell, i.e. there will be no relevant amount of hydrogen gas present. Therefore, the original concept of polarization does not apply to most batteries, and the depolarizer does not rea...
390. ...ble for general use. Manganese dioxide is, therefore, the most widely used depolarizer. The hydrogen ions displace metal from the salt so that metal, instead of hydrogen, is deposited on the positive **plate**. Examples: Luopan The luopan or geomantic compass is a Chinese magnetic compass, also known as a feng shui compass. It is used by a feng shui practitioner to determine the precise direction of a stru...
391. ...wever, a luopan differs from a compass in several important ways. The most obvious difference is the feng shui formulas embedded in up to 40 concentric rings on the surface. This is a metal or wooden **plate** known as the "heaven dial". The circular metal or wooden plate typically sits on a wooden base known as the "earth plate". The heaven dial rotates freely on the earth plate. A red wire or thread that...
392. ...s. The most obvious difference is the feng shui formulas embedded in up to 40 concentric rings on the surface. This is a metal or wooden plate known as the "heaven dial". The circular metal or wooden **plate** typically sits on a wooden base known as the "earth plate". The heaven dial rotates freely on the earth plate. A red wire or thread that crosses the earth plate and heaven dial at 90-degree angles is...
393. ...mbedded in up to 40 concentric rings on the surface. This is a metal or wooden plate known as the "heaven dial". The circular metal or wooden plate typically sits on a wooden base known as the "earth **plate**". The heaven dial rotates freely on the earth plate. A red wire or thread that crosses the earth plate and heaven dial at 90-degree angles is the "Heaven Center Cross Line", or "Red Cross Grid Line"....
394. ...This is a metal or wooden plate known as the "heaven dial". The circular metal or wooden plate typically sits on a wooden base known as the "earth plate". The heaven dial rotates freely on the earth **plate**. A red wire or thread that crosses the earth plate and heaven dial at 90-degree angles is the "Heaven Center Cross Line", or "Red Cross Grid Line". This line is used to find the direction and note po...
395. ...en dial". The circular metal or wooden plate typically sits on a wooden base known as the "earth plate". The heaven dial rotates freely on the earth plate. A red wire or thread that crosses the earth **plate** and heaven dial at 90-degree angles is the "Heaven Center Cross Line", or "Red Cross Grid Line". This line is used to find the direction and note position on the rings. A conventional compass has mar...
396. ..." (after Jiang Da Hong) or the "Yi Pan" (because of the presence of Yijing hexagrams) incorporates many formulas used in San Yuan (Three Cycles). It contains one 24-direction ring, known as the Earth **Plate** Correct Needle, the ring for the 64 hexagrams, and others. (The techniques grouped under the name "Flying Stars" are an example of San Yuan methods.) This luopan combines rings from the San He and Sa...
397. ...u Ren, the boards were commonly used to chart the motion of Taiyi through the nine palaces. The markings are virtually unchanged from the "shi" to the first magnetic compasses. The schematic of earth **plate**, heaven plate, and grid lines is part of the "two cords and four hooks" () geometrical diagram in use since at least the Warring States period. The "zhinan zhen" or south-pointing needle, is the orig...
398. ...rds were commonly used to chart the motion of Taiyi through the nine palaces. The markings are virtually unchanged from the "shi" to the first magnetic compasses. The schematic of earth plate, heaven **plate**, and grid lines is part of the "two cords and four hooks" () geometrical diagram in use since at least the Warring States period. The "zhinan zhen" or south-pointing needle, is the original magnetic...
399. ...agnets can be used to localize magnetic nanoparticles to desired cells, this mechanism may be difficult to maintain in practice. The nanoparticles can be concentrated in 2D space such as on a culture **plate** or at the surface of the body, but it can be more difficult to localize them in the 3D space of the body. Magnetofection does not work well for organs or blood vessels far from the surface of the bod...
400. ...so called Dimensionally Stable Anodes (DSA), are devices with high conductivity and corrosion resistance for use as anodes in electrolysis. They are made by coating a substrate, such as pure titanium **plate** or expanded mesh, with several kinds of metal oxides. One oxide is usually RuO, IrO, or PtO, which conducts electricity and catalyzes the desired reaction such as the production of chlorine gas. The...
401. ...lls to control the speed of the belt smoothly. It is also used to protect the electric motor of the machine from being overloaded when people with different weights use it. Advantages over a friction **plate** clutch include: Zero-ohm link A zero-ohm link or zero-ohm resistor is a wire link packaged in the same physical package format as a resistor. It is used to connect traces on a printed circuit board (...
402. ...e of each section. This simulates a homogeneous distribution of material throughout the body. The solution will also be acidified and contain stable element carrier so that the radioactivity does not **plate** out on the container walls. The phantom, which contains a known amount of radioactivity can be used to calibrate the whole body counter by relating the observed response to the known amount of radioa...
403. ...ance," but usually the stored charge is directly proportional to the voltage, making the capacitances given by the two definitions equal. This type of differential capacitance may be called "parallel **plate** capacitance," after the usual form of the capacitor. However, the term is meaningful when applied to any two conducting bodies such as spheres, and not necessarily ones of the same size, for example,...
404. ...ial. The magnetic variation (geomagnetic reversals) in successive bands of ocean floor parallel with mid-ocean ridges was important evidence for seafloor spreading, a concept central to the theory of **plate** tectonics. Magnetic anomalies are generally a small fraction of the magnetic field. The total field ranges from 25,000 to 65,000 nanoteslas (nT). To measure anomalies, magnetometers need a sensitivit...
405. ...ious reliability issues. The first solid-state metal diode suitable for general power uses was developed by Ernst Presser at TeKaDe in 1928. It consisted of a layer of selenium applied on an aluminum **plate**. In 1957, a General Electric research group developed the first thyristor suitable for use in power applications, starting a revolution in power electronics. In that same year, Siemens demonstrated a...
406. ...s the voltage on the last CRT anode (immediately next to the Y deflection plates). For a circular spot, the final anode must be at the same potential as both of the Y-plates (for a centred spot the Y-**plate** voltages must be the same). If the anode is made more positive, the spot becomes elliptical in the X-plane as the more negative Y-plates will repel the beam. If the anode is made more negative, the s...
407. ...te to avoid this occasional problem. Alternate mode, however, is better for faster sweeps. True dual-beam CRT oscilloscopes did exist, but were not common. One type (Cossor, U.K.) had a beam-splitter **plate** in its CRT, and single-ended deflection following the splitter. Others had two complete electron guns, requiring tight control of axial (rotational) mechanical alignment in manufacturing the CRT. Bea...
408. ...free from the fluctuations that are  present in plasmas created in electric discharges. The Q-machine  was first described in a publication by Rynn and D'Angelo. The Q-machine plasma is created at a **plate** that has been heated  to about 2000 K and hence is called the hot plate. Electrons are  emitted by the hot plate through thermionic emission, and ions  are created through contact ionization of atoms...
409. ...tric discharges. The Q-machine  was first described in a publication by Rynn and D'Angelo. The Q-machine plasma is created at a plate that has been heated  to about 2000 K and hence is called the hot **plate**. Electrons are  emitted by the hot plate through thermionic emission, and ions  are created through contact ionization of atoms of alkali metals  that have low ionization potentials. The hot plate is...
410. ...described in a publication by Rynn and D'Angelo. The Q-machine plasma is created at a plate that has been heated  to about 2000 K and hence is called the hot plate. Electrons are  emitted by the hot **plate** through thermionic emission, and ions  are created through contact ionization of atoms of alkali metals  that have low ionization potentials. The hot plate is made of a  metal that has a large work f...
411. ...ot plate. Electrons are  emitted by the hot plate through thermionic emission, and ions  are created through contact ionization of atoms of alkali metals  that have low ionization potentials. The hot **plate** is made of a  metal that has a large work function and can withstand high  temperatures, e.g. tungsten or rhenium. The alkali metal is  boiled in an oven that is designed to direct a beam of alkaline...
412. ...as a large work function and can withstand high  temperatures, e.g. tungsten or rhenium. The alkali metal is  boiled in an oven that is designed to direct a beam of alkaline  metal vapor onto the hot **plate**. A high value of the hot plate  work function and a low ionization potential of the metal makes  for a low potential barrier for an electron in the alkaline metal  to overcome, thus making the ioniza...
413. ...n withstand high  temperatures, e.g. tungsten or rhenium. The alkali metal is  boiled in an oven that is designed to direct a beam of alkaline  metal vapor onto the hot plate. A high value of the hot **plate**  work function and a low ionization potential of the metal makes  for a low potential barrier for an electron in the alkaline metal  to overcome, thus making the ionization process more efficient.  S...
414. ...lasma can approach unity, which can be orders of magnitude greater than that predicted by the Saha ionization equation. The temperature of the Q-machine plasma is close to the temperature  of the hot **plate**, and the ion and electron temperatures are similar.  Although this temperature (about 2000 K) is high compared to room  temperature, it is much lower than electron temperatures that are  usually foun...
415. ...vices to science. He was elected a foreign associate of the US National Academy of Sciences in May 2012. He was awarded the Copley Medal in 2013 and the Carbon Medal in 2016. Geim received the Golden **Plate** Award of the American Academy of Achievement in 2017. In addition to this he also won the 2018 Fray International Sustainability Award given to him by FLOGEN Star Outreach at SIPS 2018  Geim shared t...
416. ...rect current (DC) or alternating current (AC) was supplied. There are three ways of powering electronic equipment. AC-only equipment would rely on a transformer to provide the voltages for heater and **plate** circuits. AC/DC equipment would connect all the tube heaters in series to match the supply voltage; a rectifier would convert AC to the direct current required for operation. When connected to a DC s...
417. ...rating on the same root mean square AC supply voltage would have a higher effective voltage after the rectifier stage. In areas using 110–120 volt AC, a simple half-wave rectifier limited the maximum **plate** voltage that could be developed; this was adequate for relatively low-power audio equipment, but television receivers or higher-powered amplifiers required either a more complex voltage doubler recti...
418. ...quired either a more complex voltage doubler rectifier or warranted the use of a power transformer with a conveniently high secondary voltage. Areas with 220–240 volt AC supplies could develop higher **plate** voltage with a simple rectifier. Transformerless power supplies were feasible for television receivers in 220–240 volt areas. Additionally, the use of a transformer allowed multiple independent power...
419. ...e electrical devices practical. Batteries in vacuum tube devices historically used a wet cell for the "A" battery (to provide power to the filament) and a dry cell for the "B" battery (to provide the **plate** voltage). Between 2010 and 2018, annual battery demand grew by 30%, reaching a total of 180 GWh in 2018. Conservatively, the growth rate is expected to be maintained at an estimated 25%, culminating...
420. ...select the correct filament voltage and pins. Next in complexity is the "emission tester", which basically treats any tube as a diode by carefully connecting the cathode to ground, all the grids and **plate** to B+ voltage, feeding the filament with the correct voltage, and an ammeter in series with either the plate or the cathode. This effectively measures emission, the current which the cathode is capab...
421. ...reats any tube as a diode by carefully connecting the cathode to ground, all the grids and plate to B+ voltage, feeding the filament with the correct voltage, and an ammeter in series with either the **plate** or the cathode. This effectively measures emission, the current which the cathode is capable of emitting, for the given plate voltage, which can usually be controlled by a variable load resistor. Swi...
422. ...lament with the correct voltage, and an ammeter in series with either the plate or the cathode. This effectively measures emission, the current which the cathode is capable of emitting, for the given **plate** voltage, which can usually be controlled by a variable load resistor. Switches will need to select the correct filament voltage plus which pins belong to the filament and cathode(s). Older testers ma...
423. ...usually be controlled by a variable load resistor. Switches will need to select the correct filament voltage plus which pins belong to the filament and cathode(s). Older testers may call themselves "**Plate** Conductance" if the ammeter is in series with the plate, or "Cathode Conductance" if the meter is in series with the cathode. The problems of "emission testers" are: The "advantage" of an emission te...
424. ...ches will need to select the correct filament voltage plus which pins belong to the filament and cathode(s). Older testers may call themselves "Plate Conductance" if the ammeter is in series with the **plate**, or "Cathode Conductance" if the meter is in series with the cathode. The problems of "emission testers" are: The "advantage" of an emission tester is that from all types of tube testers, it provides...
425. ..., a type of tester developed by the Jackson Electrical Company of Dayton, Ohio. The main difference is the use of ‘proportional AC voltages’ in place of applying the current directly to the grids and **plate**. Usually, emission testers also have a "short circuit test" which is just a variation of the continuity tester with a neon lamp, and which allows to identify if there is any shortcut between the diff...
426. ...with the Funke W20 and the Neuberger RPG375. The mutual conductance tester tests the tube dynamically by applying bias and an AC voltage to the control grid, and measuring the current obtained on the **plate**, while maintaining the correct DC voltages on the plate and screen grid. This setup measures the transconductance of the tube, indicated in micromhos. A full set of characteristic curves for vacuum t...
427. ...conductance tester tests the tube dynamically by applying bias and an AC voltage to the control grid, and measuring the current obtained on the plate, while maintaining the correct DC voltages on the **plate** and screen grid. This setup measures the transconductance of the tube, indicated in micromhos. A full set of characteristic curves for vacuum tubes, and later for semiconductor devices, could be disp...
428. ...In this case, they are called grading capacitors. In schematic diagrams, a capacitor used primarily for DC charge storage is often drawn vertically in circuit diagrams with the lower, more negative, **plate** drawn as an arc. The straight plate indicates the positive terminal of the device if it is polarized (see electrolytic capacitor). Ceramic disc capacitors are usually used in snubber circuits for low...
429. ...ng capacitors. In schematic diagrams, a capacitor used primarily for DC charge storage is often drawn vertically in circuit diagrams with the lower, more negative, plate drawn as an arc. The straight **plate** indicates the positive terminal of the device if it is polarized (see electrolytic capacitor). Ceramic disc capacitors are usually used in snubber circuits for low voltage motors for their low induct...
430. ...ure humidity in air. Capacitors are used to accurately measure the fuel level in airplanes; as the fuel covers more of a pair of plates, the circuit capacitance increases. A capacitor with a flexible **plate** can be used to measure strain or pressure or weight. Industrial pressure transmitters used for process control use pressure-sensing diaphragms, which form a capacitor plate of an oscillator circuit....
431. ...capacitor with a flexible plate can be used to measure strain or pressure or weight. Industrial pressure transmitters used for process control use pressure-sensing diaphragms, which form a capacitor **plate** of an oscillator circuit. Capacitors are used as the sensor in condenser microphones, where one plate is moved by air pressure, relative to the fixed position of the other plate. Some accelerometers...
432. ...ure transmitters used for process control use pressure-sensing diaphragms, which form a capacitor plate of an oscillator circuit. Capacitors are used as the sensor in condenser microphones, where one **plate** is moved by air pressure, relative to the fixed position of the other plate. Some accelerometers use microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) capacitors etched on a chip to measure the magnitude and dir...
433. ...hich form a capacitor plate of an oscillator circuit. Capacitors are used as the sensor in condenser microphones, where one plate is moved by air pressure, relative to the fixed position of the other **plate**. Some accelerometers use microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) capacitors etched on a chip to measure the magnitude and direction of the acceleration vector. They are used to detect changes in accele...

=== TRANSMIT (144 occurrences) ===
1. ...customers on Manhattan Island in New York City. In 1884, Sir Charles Parsons invented the steam turbine allowing for more efficient electric power generation. Alternating current, with its ability to **transmit** power more efficiently over long distances via the use of transformers, developed rapidly in the 1880s and 1890s with transformer designs by Károly Zipernowsky, Ottó Bláthy and Miksa Déri (later call...
2. ...orders. The order Gymnotiformes, of which the best known example is the electric eel, detect or stun their prey via high voltages generated from modified muscle cells called electrocytes. All animals **transmit** information along their cell membranes with voltage pulses called action potentials, whose functions include communication by the nervous system between neurons and muscles. An electric shock stimula...
3. ...ents (e.g., extending the cork by putting thin sticks into it) showed—for the first time—that electrical effluvia (as Gray called it) could be transmitted (conducted) over a distance. Gray managed to **transmit** charge with twine (765 feet) and wire (865 feet). Through these experiments, Gray discovered the importance of different materials, which facilitated or hindered the conduction of electrical effluvia...
4. ...clude Gorilla Glass, developed and manufactured by Corning, AGC Inc.'s Dragontrail and Schott AG's Xensation. Glass is in widespread use in optical systems due to its ability to refract, reflect, and **transmit** light following geometrical optics. The most common and oldest applications of glass in optics are as lenses, windows, mirrors, and prisms. The key optical properties refractive index, dispersion, an...
5. ...still employ skilled glassblowers to manufacture bespoke glass apparatus for their experimental requirements. Glass is a ubiquitous material in optics because of its ability to refract, reflect, and **transmit** light. These and other optical properties can be controlled by varying chemical compositions, thermal treatment, and manufacturing techniques. The many applications of glass in optics include glasses...
6. ...and matter is termed "optics". The observation and study of optical phenomena such as rainbows and the aurora borealis offer many clues as to the nature of light. A transparent object allows light to **transmit** or pass through. Conversely, an opaque object does not allow light to transmit through and instead reflecting or absorbing the light it receives. Most objects do not reflect or transmit light specula...
7. ...uch as rainbows and the aurora borealis offer many clues as to the nature of light. A transparent object allows light to transmit or pass through. Conversely, an opaque object does not allow light to **transmit** through and instead reflecting or absorbing the light it receives. Most objects do not reflect or transmit light specularly and to some degree scatters the incoming light, which is called glossiness....
8. ...lows light to transmit or pass through. Conversely, an opaque object does not allow light to transmit through and instead reflecting or absorbing the light it receives. Most objects do not reflect or **transmit** light specularly and to some degree scatters the incoming light, which is called glossiness. Surface scatterance is caused by the surface roughness of the reflecting surfaces, and internal scatteranc...
9. ...ing surfaces, and internal scatterance is caused by the difference of refractive index between the particles and medium inside the object. Like transparent objects, translucent objects allow light to **transmit** through, but translucent objects also scatter certain wavelength of light via internal scatterance. Refraction is the bending of light rays when passing through a surface between one transparent mate...
10. ...a feasible engineering solution to generate electricity. In 1893, Edward Dean Adams, who headed the Niagara Falls Cataract Construction Company, sought Tesla's opinion on what system would be best to **transmit** power generated at the falls. Over several years, there had been a series of proposals and open competitions on how best to do it. Among the systems proposed by several US and European companies were...
11. ...1906, Tesla spent a great deal of his time and fortune on a series of projects trying to develop the transmission of electrical power without wires. It was an expansion of his idea of using coils to **transmit** power that he had been demonstrating in wireless lighting. He saw this as not only a way to transmit large amounts of power around the world but also, as he had pointed out in his earlier lectures, a...
12. ...transmission of electrical power without wires. It was an expansion of his idea of using coils to transmit power that he had been demonstrating in wireless lighting. He saw this as not only a way to **transmit** large amounts of power around the world but also, as he had pointed out in his earlier lectures, a way to transmit worldwide communications. At the time Tesla was formulating his ideas, there was no...
13. ...hat he had been demonstrating in wireless lighting. He saw this as not only a way to transmit large amounts of power around the world but also, as he had pointed out in his earlier lectures, a way to **transmit** worldwide communications. At the time Tesla was formulating his ideas, there was no feasible way to wirelessly transmit communication signals over long distances, let alone large amounts of power. Te...
14. ...und the world but also, as he had pointed out in his earlier lectures, a way to transmit worldwide communications. At the time Tesla was formulating his ideas, there was no feasible way to wirelessly **transmit** communication signals over long distances, let alone large amounts of power. Tesla had studied radio waves early on, and came to the conclusion that part of the existing study on them, by Hertz, was...
15. ...tter S from England to Newfoundland, defeating Tesla in the race to be first to complete such a transmission. A month after Marconi's success, Tesla tried to get Morgan to back an even larger plan to **transmit** messages and power by controlling "vibrations throughout the globe". Over the next five years, Tesla wrote more than 50 letters to Morgan, pleading for and demanding additional funding to complete th...
16. ...ry of energy that was "violently opposed" to Einsteinian physics and could be tapped with an apparatus that would be cheap to run and last 500 years. He also told reporters he was working on a way to **transmit** individualized private radio wavelengths, working on breakthroughs in metallurgy, and developing a way to photograph the retina to record thought. At the 1934 occasion, Tesla told reporters he had de...
17. ...and neighboring streets in Lower Manhattan in 1898. He went on to tell reporters his oscillator could destroy the Empire State Building with of air pressure. He also proposed using his oscillators to **transmit** vibrations into the ground. He claimed it would work over any distance and could be used for communication or locating underground mineral deposits, a technique he called "telegeodynamics". In 1937,...
18. ...eginning in 1982. These optical storage devices use a semiconductor laser less than a millimetre wide to scan the surface of the disc for data retrieval. Fibre-optic communication relies on lasers to **transmit** large amounts of information at the speed of light. Other common applications of lasers include laser printers and laser pointers. Lasers are used in medicine in areas such as bloodless surgery, lase...
19. ...ion line theory (also known as the "telegrapher's equations"), which had the effect of increasing the transmission rate over transatlantic cables by a factor of ten. It originally took ten minutes to **transmit** each character, and this immediately improved to one character per minute. Closely related to this was his discovery that telephone transmission could be greatly improved by placing electrical induct...
20. ...ctly to electronic circuits, and the piezoelectric igniter, which generates sparks for small engine ignition systems and gas-grill lighters, by compressing a ceramic disc. Ultrasonic transducers that **transmit** sound waves through air had existed for quite some time but first saw major commercial use in early television remote controls. These transducers now are mounted on several car models as an echolocat...
21. ...O, and coil connections, respectively. DIN 72552 defines contact numbers in relays for automotive use: Where radio transmitters and receivers share one antenna, often a coaxial relay is used as a TR (**transmit**-receive) relay, which switches the antenna from the receiver to the transmitter. This protects the receiver from the high power of the transmitter. Such relays are often used in transceivers which co...
22. ...ed on empirical knowledge before semiconductor theory provided a guide to the construction of more capable and reliable devices. Alexander Graham Bell used the light-sensitive property of selenium to **transmit** sound over a beam of light in 1880. A working solar cell, of low efficiency, was constructed by Charles Fritts in 1883, using a metal plate coated with selenium and a thin layer of gold; the device b...
23. ...up velocity to become infinite or negative, with pulses travelling instantaneously or backwards in time. None of these options allow information to be transmitted faster than "c". It is impossible to **transmit** information with a light pulse any faster than the speed of the earliest part of the pulse (the front velocity). It can be shown that this is (under certain assumptions) always equal to "c".  It is p...
24. ...ystems for streets and large spaces had been an expanding business in the US. With the development of transformers in Europe and by Westinghouse Electric in the US in 1885–1886, it became possible to **transmit** AC long distances over thinner and cheaper wires, and "step down" (reduce) the voltage at the destination for distribution to users. This allowed AC to be used in street lighting and in lighting for...
25. ...ake his early fortune with the stock ticker, the first electricity-based broadcast system. His innovations also included the development of the quadruplex, the first system which could simultaneously **transmit** four messages through a single wire. Edison was granted a patent for a motion picture camera, labeled the "Kinetograph". He did the electromechanical design while his employee William Kennedy Dickson...
26. ...e influences the angles at which gemstones are cut. The round "brilliant" cut, for example, is designed to refract light incident on the front facets, reflect it twice by TIR off the back facets, and **transmit** it out again through the front facets, so that the stone looks bright. Diamond (Fig.8) is especially suitable for this treatment, because its high refractive index (about 2.42) and consequently small...
27. ...wn to wavelengths around 310 nm. Near-UV radiation is visible to insects, some mammals, and some birds. Birds have a fourth color receptor for ultraviolet rays; this, coupled with eye structures that **transmit** more UV gives smaller birds "true" UV vision. "Ultraviolet" means "beyond violet" (from Latin "ultra", "beyond"), violet being the color of the highest frequencies of visible light. Ultraviolet has a...
28. ...n reduce transmission of UV that is greater than 335 nm. Fused quartz, depending on quality, can be transparent even to vacuum UV wavelengths. Crystalline quartz and some crystals such as CaF and MgF **transmit** well down to 150 nm or 160 nm wavelengths. Wood's glass is a deep violet-blue barium-sodium silicate glass with about 9% nickel(II) oxide developed during World War I to block visible light for cover...
29. ...ula_22 should be replaced with formula_23 (the line length) in all parameters of the transmission matrix. This model applies the Telegrapher's equations. High-voltage direct current (HVDC) is used to **transmit** large amounts of power over long distances or for interconnections between asynchronous grids. When electrical energy is transmitted over very long distances, the power lost in AC transmission become...
30. ...efficiency. A three-wire three-phase circuit is usually more economical than an equivalent two-wire single-phase circuit at the same line-to-ground voltage because it uses less conductor material to **transmit** a given amount of electrical power. Three-phase power is mainly used directly to power large induction motors, other electric motors and other heavy loads. Small loads often use only a two-wire singl...
31. ...ar and delta connections. His three-phase three-wire transmission system was displayed in 1891 in Germany at the International Electrotechnical Exhibition, where Dolivo-Dobrovolsky used the system to **transmit** electric power at the distance of 176 km (110 miles) with 75% efficiency. In 1891 he also created a three-phase transformer and short-circuited (squirrel-cage) induction motor. He designed the world'...
32. ...ingle-phase AC power supply that uses two current-carrying conductors (phase and neutral), a three-phase supply with no neutral and the same phase-to-ground voltage and current capacity per phase can **transmit** three times as much power by using just 1.5 times as many wires (i.e., three instead of two). Thus, the ratio of capacity to conductor material is doubled. The ratio of capacity to conductor material...
33. ...0 kHz. It is thought that the reason for this is that a certain minimum number of ions must be driven across a nerve cell's membrane by the imposed voltage to trigger the nerve cell to depolarize and **transmit** an impulse. At radio frequencies, there is insufficient time during a half-cycle for enough ions to cross the membrane before the alternating voltage reverses. The danger is that since no pain is fel...
34. ...types that have low "voltage coefficient", and by using large values that put the cutoff frequency far lower than the frequencies of the signal. AC coupling is also widely used in digital circuits to **transmit** digital signals with a zero DC component, known as DC-balanced signals. DC-balanced waveforms are useful in communications systems, since they can be used over AC-coupled electrical connections to av...
35. ...rrent surges; semiconductor components are particularly at risk. The effects of damage can range from imperceptible to the eye, to devices blowing apart. Cables, even if short, can act as antennas to **transmit** pulse energy to the equipment. Older, vacuum tube (valve)-based equipment is generally much less vulnerable to nuclear EMP than solid-state equipment, which is much more susceptible to damage by larg...
36. ...ve the correct circular polarization allowing the closed eye to be easily seen by the open one. All radio (and microwave) antennas used for transmitting or receiving are intrinsically polarized. They **transmit** in (or receive signals from) a particular polarization, being totally insensitive to the opposite polarization; in certain cases that polarization is a function of direction. Most antennas are nomina...
37. ...on toward the horizon, is necessarily horizontally polarized. But a vertical "whip antenna" or AM broadcast tower used as an antenna element (again, for observers horizontally displaced from it) will **transmit** in the vertical polarization. A turnstile antenna with its four arms in the horizontal plane, likewise transmits horizontally polarized radiation toward the horizon. However, when that same turnstile...
38. ...), and to locate discontinuities in a connector, printed circuit board, or any other electrical path. A TDR measures reflections along a conductor. In order to measure those reflections, the TDR will **transmit** an incident signal onto the conductor and listen for its reflections. If the conductor is of a uniform impedance and is properly terminated, then there will be no reflections and the remaining incide...
39. ...riations, a TDR may be used to verify cable impedance characteristics, splice and connector locations and associated losses, and estimate cable lengths. TDRs use different incident signals. Some TDRs **transmit** a pulse along the conductor; the resolution of such instruments is often the width of the pulse. Narrow pulses can offer good resolution, but they have high frequency signal components that are atten...
40. ...looking for the reflection of a complete pulse, the instrument is concerned with the rising edge, which can be very fast. A 1970s technology TDR used steps with a rise time of 25 ps. Still other TDRs **transmit** complex signals and detect reflections with correlation techniques. See spread-spectrum time-domain reflectometry. The equivalent device for optical fiber is an optical time-domain reflectometer. Tim...
41. ...e usually affected by the transmission media they pass through, for instance, by absorption or reflection or refraction at the interfaces between media. Technical devices can therefore be employed to **transmit** or guide waves. Thus, an optical fiber or a copper cable is used as transmission media. Electromagnetic radiation can be transmitted through an optical medium, such as optical fiber, or through twist...
42. ...ex, or full-duplex. In simplex transmission, signals are transmitted in only one direction; one station is a transmitter and the other is the receiver. In the half-duplex operation, both stations may **transmit**, but only one at a time. In full-duplex operation, both stations may transmit simultaneously. In the latter case, the medium is carrying signals in both directions at the same time. In general, a tra...
43. ...ne direction; one station is a transmitter and the other is the receiver. In the half-duplex operation, both stations may transmit, but only one at a time. In full-duplex operation, both stations may **transmit** simultaneously. In the latter case, the medium is carrying signals in both directions at the same time. In general, a transmission medium can be classified as There are two main types of transmission...
44. ...n "optical fiber" is a flexible, transparent fiber made by drawing glass (silica) or plastic to a diameter slightly thicker than that of a human hair. Optical fibers are used most often as a means to **transmit** light between the two ends of the fiber and find wide usage in fiber-optic communications, where they permit transmission over longer distances and at higher bandwidths (data rates) than electrical c...
45. ...wave also dictates the size of a waveguide: each waveguide has a cutoff wavelength determined by its size and will not conduct waves of greater wavelength; an optical fiber that guides light will not **transmit** microwaves which have a much larger wavelength. Some naturally occurring structures can also act as waveguides. The SOFAR channel layer in the ocean can guide the sound of whale song across enormous...
46. ...m zero to 460 RW, and both falls through zero. Next, the voltage descends to reverse direction, -325 V, but the power ascends again to 460 RW, and both returns to zero. Alternating current is used to **transmit** information, as in the cases of telephone and cable television. Information signals are carried over a wide range of AC frequencies. POTS telephone signals have a frequency of about 3 kHz, close to t...
47. ...on and other cable-transmitted information currents may alternate at frequencies of tens to thousands of megahertz. These frequencies are similar to the electromagnetic wave frequencies often used to **transmit** the same types of information over the air. The first alternator to produce alternating current was an electric generator based on Michael Faraday's principles constructed by the French instrument ma...
48. ...provided via direct-current are used in smelting of aluminum and other electrochemical processes. It is also used for some railways, especially in urban areas. High-voltage direct current is used to **transmit** large amounts of power from remote generation sites or to interconnect alternating current power grids. Direct current was produced in 1800 by Italian physicist Alessandro Volta's battery, his Voltai...
49. ...d PCBs are static sensitive, and therefore they must be placed in antistatic bags during transport. When handling these boards, the user must be grounded (earthed). Improper handling techniques might **transmit** an accumulated static charge through the board, damaging or destroying components. The damage might not immediately affect function but might lead to early failure later on, cause intermittent operat...
50. ...at first, but subsequently all of it was raised on posts along the line. Their circuit was eventually extended to in 1841, and was publicly exhibited at Paddington as a marvel of science, which could **transmit** fifty signals a distance of 280,000 miles per minute (7,500 km/s). The price of admission was a shilling (£0.05), and in 1844 one fascinated observer recorded the following: It is perfect from the te...
51. ...at low Earth orbit. Rapidly fluctuating geomagnetic fields can produce geomagnetically induced currents in pipelines. This can cause multiple problems for pipeline engineers. Pipeline flow meters can **transmit** erroneous flow information and the corrosion rate of the pipeline can be dramatically increased. Earth's atmosphere and magnetosphere allow adequate protection at ground level, but astronauts are sub...
52. ...from the soma, which houses the nucleus, and many of the "normal" eukaryotic organelles. Unlike the spines, the surface of the soma is populated by voltage activated ion channels. These channels help **transmit** the signals generated by the dendrites. Emerging out from the soma is the axon hillock. This region is characterized by having a very high concentration of voltage-activated sodium channels. In gener...
53. ...ut multicellular organisms, including plants, invertebrates such as insects, and vertebrates such as reptiles and mammals. Sponges seem to be the main phylum of multicellular eukaryotes that does not **transmit** action potentials, although some studies have suggested that these organisms have a form of electrical signaling, too. The resting potential, as well as the size and duration of the action potential,...
54. ...from 1971 to 1988. Since the wavelength of VLF radio signals is very large (a frequency of 10 kHz corresponds to a wavelength of ), Siple Station had an antenna that was long. The antenna was used to **transmit** VLF radio signals into Earth's magnetosphere, to be detected in Canada. It was possible to inject these signals into the magnetosphere, since the ionosphere is transparent to these low frequencies. W...
55. ...of introduction to Henry. Henry showed an interest in seeing Bell's experimental apparatus, and Bell returned the following day. After the demonstration, Bell mentioned his untested theory on how to **transmit** human speech electrically by means of a "harp apparatus" which would have several steel reeds tuned to different frequencies to cover the voice spectrum. Henry said Bell had "the germ of a great inve...
56. ...ss and residential users. The high voltages used in arc lighting allowed a single generating station to supply a string of lights up to long. And each doubling of voltage would allow a given cable to **transmit** the same amount of power four times the distance than at the lower voltage (with the same power loss). By contrast, direct-current indoor incandescent lighting systems, such as Edison's first power s...
57. ...thunderbolt, allowing him to travel through electrical appliances such as going through a light bulb and exiting through any other electronic device connected to the power source. He is also able to **transmit** himself over Spider-Man's web line. During an interview with "Newsarama" about "The Gauntlet and Grim Hunt", Mark Waid claimed that the character of Electro is "one of the smart criminals who was sav...
58. ...ile this was the birth, there have been a large number of further developments since then. There are many types and techniques of electron diffraction. The most common approach is where the electrons **transmit** through a thin sample, from 1 nm to 100 nm (10 to 1000 atoms thick), where the results depending upon how the atoms are arranged in the material, for instance a single crystal, many crystals or diffe...
59. ..., fast switching speed, easy advanced paralleling capability, wide bandwidth, ruggedness, easy drive, simple biasing, ease of application, and ease of repair. While HVDC is increasingly being used to **transmit** large quantities of electricity over long distances or to connect adjacent asynchronous power systems, the bulk of electricity generation, transmission, distribution and retailing takes place using a...
60. ...ystem initially introduced by George Westinghouse's company that used transformers to step down from a high voltage so AC could be used for indoor lighting. Using high voltage allowed an AC system to **transmit** power over longer distances from more efficient large central generating stations. As the use of AC spread rapidly with other companies deploying their own systems, the Edison Electric Light Company...
61. ...ratus. A three-phase three-wire transmission system had already been deployed in Europe at the International Electro-Technical Exhibition of 1891, where Mikhail Dolivo-Dobrovolsky used this system to **transmit** electric power over a distance of 176 km with 75% efficiency. In 1891 he also created a three-phase transformer, the short-circuited (squirrel-cage) induction motor and designed the world's first thr...
62. ...de the first transatlantic transmission in 1901 from Poldhu, Cornwall to Signal Hill, Newfoundland. Marconi built high-powered stations on both sides of the Atlantic and began a commercial service to **transmit** nightly news summaries to subscribing ships in 1904. The key development of the vacuum tube by Sir John Ambrose Fleming in 1904 underpinned the development of modern electronics and radio broadcastin...
63. ...t it would carry from his balcony down into the courtyard below. He discovered that electricity would travel around bends in the thread and that it appeared unaffected by gravity. He was also able to **transmit** charges to metal objects (poker, tongs, kettle, etc.) which were generally regarded in those days as 'non-electrics' because they couldn't generate or hold a static charge. He also discovered that si...
64. ...to represent text characters in Morse code. A telegraph operator would translate the sounds into characters representing the telegraph message. Telegraph networks, used from the 1850s to the 1970s to **transmit** text messages long distances, transmitted information by pulses of current of two different lengths, called "dots" and "dashes" which spelled out text messages in Morse code. A telegraph operator at...
65. ...dapted from the branchial (gill arch) muscles. In marine fish, these batteries are connected as a parallel circuit, whereas freshwater batteries are arranged in series. This allows freshwater rays to **transmit** discharges of higher voltage, as freshwater cannot conduct electricity as well as saltwater. With such a battery, an electric ray may electrocute larger prey with a voltage of between 8 volts in some...
66. ...otor, and transmission needs, given the materials and equipment available in the first quarter of the 20th century. Several 40 Hz systems were built. The Lauffen-Frankfurt demonstration used 40 Hz to **transmit** power 175 km in 1891. A large interconnected 40 Hz network existed in north-east England (the Newcastle-upon-Tyne Electric Supply Company, NESCO) until the advent of the National Grid (UK) in the lat...
67. ...otentials. Sodium-potassium ATPases redistribute K and Na ions until the membrane potential is back to its resting potential of around –70 millivolts, at which point the neuron is once again ready to **transmit** another action potential.  Voltage gated ion channels respond to changes in the membrane potential. Voltage gated potassium, chloride and sodium channels are key components in the generation of the a...
68. ...magnetic field, Faraday rotation angles of over 0.78 rad (45°) can be achieved. This allows the construction of Faraday rotators, which are the principal component of Faraday isolators, devices which **transmit** light in only one direction. The Faraday effect can, however, be observed and measured in a Terbium-doped glass with Verdet constant as low as (≈ for 632 nm light). Similar isolators are constructed...
69. ...a neuron and between two neurons. The reception of stimuli, neural integration of those stimuli, and the neuron's response to stimuli all rely upon the ability of neurons to utilize depolarization to **transmit** stimuli either within a neuron or between neurons. Stimuli to neurons can be physical, electrical, or chemical, and can either inhibit or excite the neuron being stimulated. An inhibitory stimulus is...
70. ...on, the resting membrane potential of the axon must be restored before another action potential can travel the axon. This is known as the recovery period of the neuron, during which the neuron cannot **transmit** another action potential. The importance and versatility of depolarization within cells can be seen in the relationship between rod cells in the eye and their associated neurons. When rod cells are i...
71. ...mer developed by Gaulard and Gibbs, began to develop his AC lighting system, using a transmission system with a 20:1 step up voltage with step-down. In 1890 Westinghouse and Stanley built a system to **transmit** power several miles to a mine in Colorado. A decision was taken to use AC for power transmission from the Niagara Power Project to Buffalo, New York. Proposals submitted by vendors in 1890 included D...
72. ...used for lighting, heat, and motive power. A more practical demonstration of wireless transmission via conduction came in Amos Dolbear's 1879 magneto electric telephone that used ground conduction to **transmit** over a distance of a quarter of a mile. After 1890, inventor Nikola Tesla experimented with transmitting power by inductive and capacitive coupling using spark-excited radio frequency resonant transf...
73. ...t distances) inversely proportional to the separation. Capacitive coupling has only been used practically in a few low power applications, because the very high voltages on the electrodes required to **transmit** significant power can be hazardous, and can cause unpleasant side effects such as noxious ozone production. In addition, in contrast to magnetic fields, electric fields interact strongly with most ma...
74. ...upling. A new kind of system using the Zenneck type waves was shown by Oruganti et al., where they demonstrated that it was possible to excite Zenneck wave type waves on flat metal-air interfaces and **transmit** power across metal obstacles. Here the idea is to excite a localized charge oscillation at the metal-air interface, the resulting modes propagate along the metal-air interface. Far field methods achi...
75. ...nearly double the power of a quantum dot energy harvester. The extra degrees of freedom allowed larger currents. Its efficiency is slightly lower than the quantum dot energy harvesters. Quantum wells **transmit** electrons of any energy above a certain level, while quantum dots pass only electrons of a specific energy. One possible application is to convert waste heat from electric circuits, e.g., in computer...
76. ...terfere with data transmission. The common-mode voltage is easily extracted using the center tap of the standard Ethernet pulse transformer. For Gigabit Ethernet and faster, both alternatives A and B **transmit** power on wire pairs also used for data since all four pairs are used for data transmission at these speeds. 4PPoE provides power using all four pairs of a twisted-pair cable. This enables higher powe...
77. ...ponsible for dynamically communicating the Voice VLAN value from the Cisco switch to the Cisco VoIP Phone. Under Cisco's pre-standard scheme, the PSE (switch) will send a fast link pulse (FLP) on the **transmit** pair. The PD (device) connects the transmit line to the receive line via a low-pass filter. The PSE gets the FLP in return. The PSE will provide a common mode current between pairs 1 and 2, resulting...
78. ...oice VLAN value from the Cisco switch to the Cisco VoIP Phone. Under Cisco's pre-standard scheme, the PSE (switch) will send a fast link pulse (FLP) on the transmit pair. The PD (device) connects the **transmit** line to the receive line via a low-pass filter. The PSE gets the FLP in return. The PSE will provide a common mode current between pairs 1 and 2, resulting in and default of allocated power. The PD m...
79. ...ion, electrons of this symmetry dominate the junction current. In contrast, in the MTJ's antiparallel (AP) state, this channel is blocked, such that electrons with the next most favorable symmetry to **transmit** dominate the junction current. Since those electrons tunnel with respect to a larger barrier height, this results in the sizeable TMR. Beyond these large values of TMR across MgO-based MTJs, this imp...
80. ...amount of power going to the center electrode. At the very lowest setting that will light or "strike" the ball, a single tendril is made. This single tendril's plasma channel engages enough space to **transmit** this lowest striking energy to the outside world through the glass of the ball. As the power is increased, this single channel's capacity is overwhelmed and a second channel forms, then a third, and...
81. ...g a low-power test signal avoids damaging the analyzer when testing a badly-matched antenna. In addition, because its signal power is very low, the analyzer can be used for frequencies outside of the **transmit** bands licensed to its operator, and thus measure antenna performance over an unrestricted range of frequencies. Klein–Nishina formula In particle physics, the Klein–Nishina formula gives the differen...
82. ...he cable company to a different point than that of the house's electrical ground creating a ground loop, and causing undesirable mains hum in the system's speakers. In digital systems, which commonly **transmit** data serially (RS-232, RS-485, USB, FireWire, DVI, HDMI etc.) the signal voltage is often much larger than induced power frequency AC on the connecting cable screens. Of those protocols listed, only...
83. ...close to the phone's antenna as possible. Measurements are made for different positions on both sides of the head and at different frequencies representing the frequency bands at which the device can **transmit**. Depending on the size and capabilities of the phone, additional testing may also be required to represent usage of the device while placed close to the user's body and/or extremities. Various govern...
84. ...xclusion of others. The most extreme example of digital spread-spectrum signalling to date is ultra-wideband (UWB), which proposes the use of large sections of the radio spectrum at low amplitudes to **transmit** high-bandwidth digital data. UWB, if used exclusively, would enable very efficient use of the spectrum, but users of non-UWB technology are not yet prepared to share the spectrum with the new system...
85. ...sient pulses of radio waves called damped waves; they are unable to produce the continuous waves used to carry audio (sound) in modern AM or FM radio transmission. So spark-gap transmitters could not **transmit** audio, and instead transmitted information by radiotelegraphy; the operator switched the transmitter on and off with a telegraph key, creating pulses of radio waves to spell out text messages in Mors...
86. ...The frequency of repetition (spark rate) is in the audio range, typically 50 to 1000 sparks per second, so in a receiver's earphones the signal sounds like a steady tone, whine, or buzz. In order to **transmit** information with this signal, the operator turns the transmitter on and off rapidly by tapping on a switch called a telegraph key in the primary circuit of the transformer, producing sequences of sho...
87. ...ircuit (parallel to the capacitor) through the spark. The invention of the radio transmitter resulted from the convergence of two lines of research. One was efforts by inventors to devise a system to **transmit** telegraph signals without wires. Experiments by a number of inventors had shown that electrical disturbances could be transmitted short distances through the air. However most of these systems worked...
88. ...Longer, lower frequency waves have less attenuation with distance. As Marconi tried longer antennas, which radiated lower frequency waves, probably in the MF band around 2 MHz, he found that he could **transmit** further. Another advantage was that these vertical antennas radiated vertically polarized waves, instead of the horizontally polarized waves produced by Hertz's horizontal antennas. These longer vert...
89. ...atmosphere, later called skywave propagation. Marconi did not understand any of this at the time; he simply found empirically that the higher his vertical antenna was suspended, the further it would **transmit**. After failing to interest the Italian government, in 1896 Marconi moved to England, where William Preece of the British General Post Office funded his experiments. Marconi applied for a patent on hi...
90. ...circuit) in transmitters would narrow the bandwidth of the radiated signal, it would occupy a smaller range of frequencies around its center frequency, so that the signals of transmitters "tuned" to **transmit** on different frequencies would no longer overlap. A receiver which had its own resonant circuit could receive a particular transmitter by "tuning" its resonant frequency to the frequency of the desir...
91. ...ng as the spark continued. Each time the energy returned to the primary, some was lost as heat in the spark. In addition, unless the coupling was very loose the oscillations caused the transmitter to **transmit** on two separate frequencies. Since the narrow passband of the receiver's resonant circuit could only be tuned to one of these frequencies, the power radiated at the other frequency was wasted. This t...
92. ...ominant outside the British Empire. Marconi transmitters used the timed spark rotary discharger, while Telefunken transmitters used its quenched spark gap technology. Paper tape machines were used to **transmit** Morse code text at high speed. To achieve a maximum range of around 3000 – 6000 miles, transoceanic stations transmitted mainly in the very low frequency (VLF) band, from 50 kHz to as low as 15 – 20...
93. ...Because their energy is essentially concentrated at a single frequency, in addition to causing almost no interference to other transmitters on adjacent frequencies, continuous wave transmitters could **transmit** longer distances with a given output power. They could also be modulated with an audio signal to carry sound. The problem was no techniques were known for generating them. The efforts described above...
94. ...contacts a central monitoring station. Operators at the station take appropriate action, such as contacting property owners, notifying the police, or dispatching private security forces. Such alerts **transmit** via dedicated alarm circuits, telephone lines, or the internet. The hermetically sealed reed switch is a common type of two-piece sensor. This switch operates with an electrically conductive switch t...
95. ...ch a system is to detect burglars before they enter the house to avoid both theft and vandalism. The sensitivity is dependent on the size of a home and the presence of animals. These active detectors **transmit** ultrasonic sound waves that are inaudible to humans using frequencies between 15 kHz and 75 kHz. The Doppler shift principle is the underlying method of operation which detects a change in frequency...
96. ...only referred to as fully wireless. Hybrid systems use both wired and wireless sensors to achieve the benefits of both. Transmitters can also be connected through the premises' electrical circuits to **transmit** coded signals to the control unit (line carrier). The control unit usually has a separate channel or zone for burglar and fire sensors, and more advanced systems have a separate zone for every differ...
97. ...applications, connectivity concerns are controlled by normal supervision messages. Dual signaling is a method of alarm transmission that uses a mobile phone network and a telephone and/or IP path to **transmit** intruder, fire and personal attack signals at high speed from the protected premises to an Alarm Receiving Centre (ARC). It most commonly uses GPRS or GSM, a high-speed signaling technology used to s...
98. ...tion and DNA damage and repair. Ion beams are also used in particle therapy, most often in the treatment of cancer. Ion beams produced by ion and plasma thrusters on board a spacecraft can be used to **transmit** a force to a nearby object (e.g. another spacecraft, an asteroid, etc.) that is irradiated by the beam. This innovative propulsion technique named Ion Beam Shepherd has been shown to be effective in...
99. ...tween the circuit and V) ensures a well-defined voltage (i.e. V, or logical high) when the switch is open. For a switch that is used to connect a circuit to V (e.g. if the switch or button is used to **transmit** a "high" signal), a pull-down resistor connected between the circuit and ground ensures a well-defined ground voltage (i.e. logical low) across the remainder of the circuit when the switch is open. A...
100. ...g because they possess both near infinite conductivity and near zero resistance. The advantages of a superconductor over a typical conductor, then, are twofold in that superconductors can, in theory, **transmit** signals nearly instantaneously and run infinitely with no energy loss. The prospect of actualizing superconducting quantum computers becomes all the more promising considering NASA's recent developme...
101. ...range of 2000:1 in order to produce the enormous turning moments required for the rotation of the wind turbine nacelle. The gear-rim and the pinions of the yaw drives are the components that finally **transmit** the turning moment from the yaw drives to the tower in order to turn the nacelle of the wind turbine around the tower axis (z axis). The main characteristics of the gear-rim are its big diameter (oft...
102. ...ody while she is in human form (only one wavelength of energy at a time), usually in the form of energy blasts from her hands. She mentally controls both the type and quantity of energy she wishes to **transmit**. The maximum amount of energy she can transmit at a given time is unknown. Rambeau can also divert small amounts of various energies for employment as force beams, which have the equivalent to 300 to...
103. ...ngth of energy at a time), usually in the form of energy blasts from her hands. She mentally controls both the type and quantity of energy she wishes to transmit. The maximum amount of energy she can **transmit** at a given time is unknown. Rambeau can also divert small amounts of various energies for employment as force beams, which have the equivalent to 300 tons of TNT of explosive force. A variation of th...
104. ...of 780–375 nm) as a transmission medium. VLC is a subset of optical wireless communications technologies. The technology uses fluorescent lamps (ordinary lamps, not special communications devices) to **transmit** signals at 10 kbit/s, or LEDs for up to 500 Mbit/s over short distances. Systems such as RONJA can transmit at full Ethernet speed (10 Mbit/s) over distances of . Specially designed electronic device...
105. ...e technology uses fluorescent lamps (ordinary lamps, not special communications devices) to transmit signals at 10 kbit/s, or LEDs for up to 500 Mbit/s over short distances. Systems such as RONJA can **transmit** at full Ethernet speed (10 Mbit/s) over distances of . Specially designed electronic devices generally containing a photodiode receive signals from light sources, although in some cases a cell phone...
106. ...tween appliances of a smart home or office. With increasing IoT-capable devices, connectivity through traditional radio waves might be subjected to interference. Light bulbs with VLC capabilities can **transmit** data and commands for such devices. The history of visible light communications dates back to the 1880s in Washington, D.C., when the Scottish-born scientist Alexander Graham Bell invented the photop...
107. ...on modulated sunlight over several hundred meters. This pre-dates the transmission of speech by radio. More recent work began in 2003 at Nakagawa Laboratory, in Keio University, Japan, using LEDs to **transmit** data by visible light. Since then there have been numerous research activities focussed on VLC. In 2006, researchers from CICTR at Penn State proposed a combination of power line communication (PLC)...
108. ...and communications methods, work together as a system to perform power-system automation. The term “power system” describes the collection of devices that make up the physical systems that generate, **transmit**, and distribute power. The term “instrumentation and control (I&C) system” refers to the collection of devices that monitor, control, and protect the power system. Many power-system automation are mo...
109. ...house to DC. For net metering, to sell back to the grid, an inverter would still be needed, and also to use the grid-as-a-backup, if still using a grid-tied electrical system. DC electricity doesn't **transmit** over power lines efficiently over long distances, but if it is generated and stored in batteries on site, it is more efficient by 10-20 percent to keep it as DC and run appliances that way without in...
110. .... The stepping stone between these two major types was the consequent-pole bipolar generator, with two field coils arranged in a ring around the stator. This change was needed because higher voltages **transmit** power more efficiently over small wires. To increase the output voltage, a DC generator must be spun faster, but beyond a certain speed this is impractical for very large power transmission generator...
111. ...end which could be bolted together. After the war in the 1950s and 60s waveguides became common in commercial microwave systems, such as airport radar and microwave relay networks which were built to **transmit** telephone calls and television programs between cities. In the microwave region of the electromagnetic spectrum, a waveguide normally consists of a hollow metallic conductor. These waveguides can tak...
112. ...ould lower the risk of investing in the wrong standard as well as permit a single product to be used globally even if regional communication standards vary. Some smart meters may use a test IR LED to **transmit** non-encrypted usage data that bypasses meter security by transmitting lower level data in real-time. The other critical technology for smart meter systems is the information technology at the utility...
113. ...nd Technology (CCST). In 2011, the Electric Power Research Institute performed a study to gauge human exposure to smart meters as compared to the FCC PEL. The report found that most smart meters only **transmit** RF signals 1% of the time or less. At this rate, and at a distance of 1 foot from the meter, RF exposure would be at a rate of 0.14% of the FCC PEL. An indirect potential for harm to health by smart...
114. ...from 1903 until the 1920s when it was replaced by vacuum tube transmitters. One of the first transmitters that could generate continuous sinusoidal waves, it was one of the first technologies used to **transmit** sound (amplitude modulation) by radio. It is on the list of IEEE Milestones as a historic achievement in electrical engineering. Elihu Thomson discovered that a carbon arc shunted with a series tuned...
115. ...ming, and entertainment technology). HDRR does not require a HDR display and originally used tone mapping to display the rendering on a standard dynamic range display. The technologies used to store, **transmit**, display and print images have limited dynamic range. When captured or created images have a higher dynamic range, they must be tone mapped in order to reduce that dynamic range. High-dynamic-range f...
116. ...or image and video files are able to store more dynamic range than traditional 8-bit gamma formats. These formats include: High dynamic range (HDR) is also the common name of a technology allowing to **transmit** high dynamic range videos and images to compatible displays. That technology also improves other aspects of transmitted images, such as color gamut. In this context, On January 4, 2016, the Ultra HD...
117. ...on ground might not normally and intentionally have connection to functional poles, but might become connected. For this reason isolation transformers do not supply a "GND/earth pole". Opto-isolators **transmit** information by modulating light. The sender (light source) and receiver (photosensitive device) are not electrically connected. Typically they are held in place within a matrix of transparent, insula...
118. ...ally isolated armature with switching contacts. The switching contacts may be normally closed (opening when the coil is energized) or normally open (closing when the coil is energized). Relays do not **transmit** power like a transformer, but relatively little coil power can control a much higher power circuit, making them a kind of amplifier. They are very widely used for control applications where the two s...
119. ...t suitable for low-level signals. Furthermore, the inductance of flying leads make them unsuitable for high frequency signals. Instead, a specific "scope probe" is used, which uses a coaxial cable to **transmit** the signal from the tip of the probe to the oscilloscope. This cable has two main benefits: it protects the signal from external electromagnetic interference, improving accuracy for low-level signals...
120. ...confirmed by a standards group in 1990. A comprehensive list of references is available at ICG Publications. With ICG, the placement of four dual disposable sensors on the neck and chest are used to **transmit** and detect electrical and impedance changes in the thorax, which are used to measure and calculate cardiodynamic parameters. Hemodynamics is a subchapter of cardiovascular physiology, which is concer...
121. ...on device is relatively simple in structure, and there is a gap between the driving part and the driven part, which is easy to install, disassemble, troubleshoot, and maintain. Magnetic couplings can **transmit** power via a linear motion, rotary motion, or helical compound motion (a combination of linear motion and rotary motion). The combination of these transmission methods and different mechanical geometr...
122. ...where it is received by a directional antenna and receiver, forming a fixed radio connection between the two points. The link was often bidirectional, using a transmitter and receiver at each end to **transmit** data in both directions. The requirement of a line of sight limits the separation between stations to the visual horizon, about . For longer distances, the receiving station could function as a relay...
123. .... For longer distances, the receiving station could function as a relay, retransmitting the received information to another station along its journey. Chains of microwave relay stations were used to **transmit** telecommunication signals over transcontinental distances. Microwave relay stations were often located on tall buildings and mountaintops, with their antennas on towers to get maximum range. Beginnin...
124. ...he antennas must therefore be highly directional (high gain), and are installed in elevated locations such as large radio towers in order to be able to avoid the obstructions closer to the ground and **transmit** across long distances. Typical types of antenna used in radio relay link installations are parabolic antennas, dielectric lens, and horn-reflector antennas, which have a diameter of up to . Highly di...
125. ...ion operators. The longest known microwave radio relay crosses the Red Sea with a hop between Jebel Erba ( a.s.l., , Sudan) and Jebel Dakka ( a.s.l., , Saudi Arabia). The link was built in 1979 by to **transmit** 300 telephone channels and one TV signal, in the 2 GHz frequency band. (Hop distance is the distance between two microwave stations). Previous considerations represent typical problems characterizing...
126. ...infrastructure, and provision of direct hardware access to the portable radio operator. A microwave link is a communications system that uses a beam of radio waves in the microwave frequency range to **transmit** video, audio, or data between two locations, which can be from just a few feet or meters to several miles or kilometers apart. Microwave links are commonly used by television broadcasters to transmit...
127. ...transmit video, audio, or data between two locations, which can be from just a few feet or meters to several miles or kilometers apart. Microwave links are commonly used by television broadcasters to **transmit** programmes across a country, for instance, or from an outside broadcast back to a studio. Mobile units can be camera mounted, allowing cameras the freedom to move around without trailing cables. Thes...
128. ...possible when it was recognized that alternating current electric power lines could use transformers to take advantage of the fact that each doubling of the voltage would allow the same size cable to **transmit** the same amount of power four times the distance. Transformer were used to raise voltage at the point of generation (a representative number is a generator voltage in the low kilovolt range) to a muc...
129. ...concerns for antenna stations to receive the energy at Earth's surface. The collecting satellite would convert solar energy into electrical energy, power a microwave transmitter or laser emitter, and **transmit** this energy to a collector (or microwave rectenna) on Earth's surface. Contrary to appearances in fiction, most designs propose beam energy densities that are not harmful if human beings were to be i...
130. ...ctrics are often used in all of these environments to mechanically support electrical conductors and keep them at a fixed separation, or to provide a barrier between different gas pressures yet still **transmit** electromagnetic power. Maxwell’s equations are solved for the electric and magnetic field components of the propagating waves that satisfy the boundary conditions of the specific environment's geomet...
131. ...uency range are perceived by humans when air vibrates against their eardrum. Air, or some other vibrating medium such as water, is essential for sound perception by the human ear. Without a medium to **transmit** it, the sound produced by a source will not be heard by a human. There is no air in outer space, nor is there any other type of medium capable of transmitting vibrations from a source to a human ear....
132. ...It can consist of mechanical or electrical devices, or a combination of both. Mechanical soft starters include clutches and several types of couplings using a fluid, magnetic forces, or steel shot to **transmit** torque, similar to other forms of torque limiter. Electrical soft starters can be any control system that reduces the torque by temporarily reducing the voltage or current input, or a device that tem...
133. ...t with a diagonal line through it terminating in an arrow head. For a preset component, the diagonal line terminates in a bar. Electromagnetic clutch Electromagnetic clutches operate electrically but **transmit** torque mechanically. This is why they used to be referred to as electro-mechanical clutches. Over the years, EM became known as electromagnetic versus electro-mechanical, referring more about their a...
134. ...t dissipation capability, which makes them ideally suited for multiple speed gear boxes and machine tool applications. "How it works " – Multiple disk clutches operate via an electrical actuation but **transmit** torque mechanically. When current is applied through the clutch coil, the coil becomes an electromagnet and produces magnetic lines of flux. These lines of flux are transferred through the small air...
135. ...engagement speeds over 50 rpm otherwise damage to the clutch teeth would occur when trying to engage the clutch. "How it works" – Electromagnetic tooth clutches operate via an electric actuation but **transmit** torque mechanically. When current flows through the clutch coil, the coil becomes an electromagnet and produces magnetic lines of flux. This flux is then transferred through the small gap between the...
136. ...t or dry, which makes them ideal to run in multi-speed gear box applications, machine tool applications, or in off-road equipment. Electro-mechanical disk brakes operate via electrical actuation, but **transmit** torque mechanically. When electricity is applied to the coil of an electromagnet, the magnetic flux attracts the armature to the face of the brake. As it does so, it squeezes the inner and outer fric...
137. ...ent to crews in the field and for the crews to be able to update the OMS with information such as estimated restoration times without requiring radio communication with the control center. Crews also **transmit** details about what they did during outage restoration. It is important that the outage management system electrical model be kept up to current so that it can accurately make outage predictions and a...
138. ...training in areas such as wave propagation, impedance transformations, filters and microstrip printed circuit board design. "Radio electronics" is concerned with electronic circuits which receive or **transmit** radio signals. Typically, such circuits must operate at radio frequency and power levels, which imposes special constraints on their design. These constraints increase in their importance with higher...
139. ...f being easy to transform between voltages and is able to be generated and utilised by brushless machinery. DC power remains the only practical choice in digital systems and can be more economical to **transmit** over long distances at very high voltages (see HVDC). The ability to easily transform the voltage of AC power is important for two reasons: firstly, power can be transmitted over long distances with...
140. ...the amount of battery power required for a desired wireless communication goodput.  Some wireless mesh networks use "smart" low power broadcasting techniques that reduce the battery power required to **transmit**. This can be achieved by using power aware protocols and joint power control systems. In 2007, about 10% of the average IT budget was spent on energy, and energy costs for IT were expected to rise to...
141. ...d by the human voice, and the attention that is drawn from the sound coming from the speakers. A "Shabbat microphone" has been developed, which is intended to allow rabbis or "hazzans" to amplify and **transmit** their voice without affecting the electrical current of the microphone to hold congregations without violating Shabbat. It uses acousto-fluidic technology and constant electric current, so the sound...
142. ...n the practical mixing of pigments, the subtractive model is usually not closely followed. How the pigment mixing behaves depends strongly on the opacity of the pigments. Ideally transparent pigments **transmit** and absorb light, but do not reflect or scatter it and mix according to the subtractive model. Ideally opaque pigments reflect or absorb light, but do not transmit it and mix according to the average...
143. ...ments. Ideally transparent pigments transmit and absorb light, but do not reflect or scatter it and mix according to the subtractive model. Ideally opaque pigments reflect or absorb light, but do not **transmit** it and mix according to the average model. Most real paints reflect, transmit and scatter light, so mix according to a hybrid between the subtractive and average models. Paint color mixer is also aff...
144. ...ect or scatter it and mix according to the subtractive model. Ideally opaque pigments reflect or absorb light, but do not transmit it and mix according to the average model. Most real paints reflect, **transmit** and scatter light, so mix according to a hybrid between the subtractive and average models. Paint color mixer is also affected by the media used as wetting, deagglomeration, and dispersing agents for...

=== TORQUE (263 occurrences) ===
1. ...often accomplished using a PID controller system. For example, in an automobile with cruise control the vehicle's speed is continuously monitored and fed back to the system, which adjusts the motor's **torque** accordingly. Where there is regular feedback, control theory can be used to determine how the system responds to such feedback. In practically all such systems stability is important and control theo...
2. ...ld lines point away from a positive charge and toward a negative charge. When placed in a homogeneous electric or magnetic field, equal but opposite forces arise on each side of the dipole creating a **torque** }: for an electric dipole moment p (in coulomb-meters), or for a magnetic dipole moment m (in ampere-square meters). The resulting torque will tend to align the dipole with the applied field, which i...
3. ...t opposite forces arise on each side of the dipole creating a torque }: for an electric dipole moment p (in coulomb-meters), or for a magnetic dipole moment m (in ampere-square meters). The resulting **torque** will tend to align the dipole with the applied field, which in the case of an electric dipole, yields a potential energy of The energy of a magnetic dipole is similarly In addition to dipoles in elec...
4. ...his interpretation is incorrect; the characteristic Crookes rotation is the result of a partial vacuum. This should not be confused with the Nichols radiometer, in which the (slight) motion caused by **torque** (though not enough for full rotation against friction) "is" directly caused by light pressure. As a consequence of light pressure, Einstein in 1909 predicted the existence of "radiation friction" whi...
5. ...density of free charge; formula_26 is the polarization density; formula_27 is the density of free current; and formula_28 is the magnetization density. In this way, the Lorentz force can explain the **torque** applied to a permanent magnet by the magnetic field. The density of the associated power is formula_29 The above-mentioned formulae use the conventions for the definition of the electric and magnetic...
6. ...xpression, but should now be understood as the vector connecting the end points of the curved wire with direction from starting to end point of conventional current. Usually, there will also be a net **torque**. If, in addition, the magnetic field is inhomogeneous, the net force on a stationary rigid wire carrying a steady current is given by integration along the wire, formula_35 One application of this is...
7. ...A'A" would affect the galactic plasma. The fact that no such effects are seen implies an upper bound on the photon mass of . The galactic vector potential can also be probed directly by measuring the **torque** exerted on a magnetized ring. Such methods were used to obtain the sharper upper limit of (the equivalent of ) given by the Particle Data Group. These sharp limits from the non-observation of the eff...
8. ...example, the needle of a compass has the lowest magnetic potential energy when it is aligned with the north and south poles of the Earth's magnetic field. If the needle is moved by an outside force, **torque** is exerted on the magnetic dipole of the needle by the Earth's magnetic field, causing it to move back into alignment. The magnetic potential energy of the needle is highest when its field is in the...
9. ...s will tend to align with the applied field, resulting in a net magnetic moment in the direction of the applied field. In the classical description, this alignment can be understood to occur due to a **torque** being provided on the magnetic moments by an applied field, which tries to align the dipoles parallel to the applied field. However, the true origins of the alignment can only be understood via the q...
10. ...alvanometer has a coil of fine wire suspended in a strong magnetic field. When an electric current is applied, the interaction of the magnetic field of the coil and of the stationary magnet creates a **torque**, tending to make the coil rotate. The torque is proportional to the current through the coil. The coil rotates, compressing a spring that opposes the rotation. The deflection of the coil is thus prop...
11. ...in a strong magnetic field. When an electric current is applied, the interaction of the magnetic field of the coil and of the stationary magnet creates a torque, tending to make the coil rotate. The **torque** is proportional to the current through the coil. The coil rotates, compressing a spring that opposes the rotation. The deflection of the coil is thus proportional to the current, which in turn is pro...
12. ...ic field. The vector is "defined" as the vector field necessary to make the Lorentz force law correctly describe the motion of a charged particle. In other words, The field can also be defined by the **torque** on a magnetic dipole, . The SI unit of is tesla (symbol: T). The Gaussian-cgs unit of is the gauss (symbol: G). (The conversion is 1 T ≘ 10000 G.) One nanotesla corresponds to 1 gamma (symbol: γ). Th...
13. ...use it depends on the strength and orientation of both magnets and their distance and direction relative to each other. The force is particularly sensitive to rotations of the magnets due to magnetic **torque**. The force on each magnet depends on its magnetic moment and the magnetic field of the other. To understand the force between magnets, it is useful to examine the "magnetic pole model" given above. I...
14. ...the second magnet sees a different field and is subject to a different force. This difference in the two forces moves the magnet in the direction of increasing magnetic field and may also cause a net **torque**. This is a specific example of a general rule that magnets are attracted (or repulsed depending on the orientation of the magnet) into regions of higher magnetic field. Any non-uniform magnetic field...
15. ...rought near each other, and one of the magnets is allowed to turn, it promptly rotates to align itself with the first. In this example, the magnetic field of the stationary magnet creates a "magnetic **torque**" on the magnet that is free to rotate. This magnetic torque tends to align a magnet's poles with the magnetic field lines. A compass, therefore, turns to align itself with Earth's magnetic field. Mat...
16. ...turn, it promptly rotates to align itself with the first. In this example, the magnetic field of the stationary magnet creates a "magnetic torque" on the magnet that is free to rotate. This magnetic **torque** tends to align a magnet's poles with the magnetic field lines. A compass, therefore, turns to align itself with Earth's magnetic field. Mathematically, the torque on a small magnet is proportional bo...
17. ...hat is free to rotate. This magnetic torque tends to align a magnet's poles with the magnetic field lines. A compass, therefore, turns to align itself with Earth's magnetic field. Mathematically, the **torque** on a small magnet is proportional both to the applied magnetic field and to the magnetic moment of the magnet: formula_8 where × represents the vector cross product. This equation includes all of the...
18. ...d magnetic field and to the magnetic moment of the magnet: formula_8 where × represents the vector cross product. This equation includes all of the qualitative information included above. There is no **torque** on a magnet if is in the same direction as the magnetic field, since the cross product is zero for two vectors that are in the same direction. Further, all other orientations feel a torque that twist...
19. ...here is no torque on a magnet if is in the same direction as the magnetic field, since the cross product is zero for two vectors that are in the same direction. Further, all other orientations feel a **torque** that twists them toward the direction of magnetic field. Currents of electric charges both generate a magnetic field and feel a force due to magnetic B-fields. All moving charged particles produce ma...
20. ...otating magnetic field" is a key principle in the operation of alternating-current motors. A permanent magnet in such a field rotates so as to maintain its alignment with the external field. Magnetic **torque** is used to drive electric motors. In one simple motor design, a magnet is fixed to a freely rotating shaft and subjected to a magnetic field from an array of electromagnets. By continuously switching...
21. ...agnets. By continuously switching the electric current through each of the electromagnets, thereby flipping the polarity of their magnetic fields, like poles are kept next to the rotor; the resultant **torque** is transferred to the shaft. A rotating magnetic field can be constructed using two orthogonal coils with 90 degrees phase difference in their AC currents. However, in practice such a system would be...
22. ...tz force from currents induced in the magnetosphere interacting with the field source. The results quantified the coefficient of drag, steering (i.e., thrust direction) angle with the solar wind, and **torque** generated as a function of attack angle (i.e., orientation) The figure illustrates how the attack (or coil tilt) angle formula_106 orientation of the coil creates a steering angle for the thrust vect...
23. ...s a function of attack angle (i.e., orientation) The figure illustrates how the attack (or coil tilt) angle formula_106 orientation of the coil creates a steering angle for the thrust vector and also **torque** imparted to the coil. Also shown is the vector for the interplanetary magnetic field (IMF), which at 1 AU varies with waves and other disturbances in the solar wind, known as space weather, and can s...
24. ...ximum of 5 at formula_106=90°. The steering angle of the thrust vector is substantially less than the attack angle deviation from 45° due to the interaction of the magnetic field with the solar wind. **Torque** increases from formula_106= 0° from zero at to a maximum at formula_106=45° and then decreases to zero at formula_106=90°. A number of magnetic sail design and other papers cite these results. In 201...
25. ...op and as a magnetic dipole far outside the loop. With respect to the plasma wind direction a magsail may have a radial (or normal) orientation or an axial orientation that can be adjusted to provide **torque** for steering. In non-axial configurations lift is generated that can change the spacecraft's momentum. The loop connects via shroud lines (or tethers) to the spacecraft in the center. Because a loop...
26. ...angle to achieve heliocentric transfer between planets moving away from or toward the Sun. In 2013 Quarta and others used Kajimura 2012 simulation results that described the lift (steering angle) and **torque** to achieve a Venus to Earth transfer orbit of 380 days with a coil radius of formula_123~1 km with characteristic acceleration formula_324=1 mm/s. In 2019 Bassetto and others used the Quarta "thick"...
27. ...ctors less efficiently, and more than three phases complicates infrastructure unnecessarily. Additionally, in some practical generators and motors,  two phases can result in a less smooth (pulsating) **torque**.  Three-phase systems may have a fourth wire, common in low-voltage distribution. This is the neutral wire. The neutral allows three separate single-phase supplies to be provided at a constant voltag...
28. ...ch can cause the neutral current to exceed the phase current. An important class of three-phase load is the electric motor. A three-phase induction motor has a simple design, inherently high starting **torque** and high efficiency. Such motors are applied in industry for many applications. A three-phase motor is more compact and less costly than a single-phase motor of the same voltage class and rating, and...
29. ...ter to "magnetic north", the local magnetic meridian, because the magnetized needle at its heart aligns itself with the horizontal component of the Earth's magnetic field. The magnetic field exerts a **torque** on the needle, pulling the North end or "pole" of the needle approximately toward the Earth's North magnetic pole, and pulling the other toward the Earth's South magnetic pole. The needle is mounted...
30. ...oad and thermal stress. The superconducting electromagnets necessary to contain hot plasma generate tesla-range magnetic fields that can cause problems with other onboard devices and produce unwanted **torque** by interaction with the magnetosphere. To counter this latter effect, two thruster units can be packaged with magnetic fields oriented in opposite directions, making a net zero-torque magnetic quadru...
31. ...roduce unwanted torque by interaction with the magnetosphere. To counter this latter effect, two thruster units can be packaged with magnetic fields oriented in opposite directions, making a net zero-**torque** magnetic quadrupole. The first VASIMR experiment was conducted at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1983. Important refinements were introduced in the 1990s, including the use of the helicon p...
32. ...val and Marcel Deprez developed a form with a stationary permanent magnet and a moving coil of wire, suspended by fine wires which provided both an electrical connection to the coil and the restoring **torque** to return to the zero position. An iron tube between the magnet's pole pieces defined a circular gap through which the coil rotated. This gap produced a consistent, radial magnetic field across the c...
33. ...nval's initial instrument could detect ten microamperes. Edward Weston extensively improved the design of the galvanometer. He substituted the fine wire suspension with a pivot and provided restoring **torque** and electrical connections through spiral springs rather than through the traditional wristwatch balance wheel hairspring. He developed a method of stabilizing the magnetic field of the permanent mag...
34. ...ole, which is related to chemical bonding, remains constant in orientation polarisation; however, the direction of polarisation itself rotates. This rotation occurs on a timescale that depends on the **torque** and surrounding local viscosity of the molecules. Because the rotation is not instantaneous, dipolar polarisations lose the response to electric fields at the highest frequencies. A molecule rotates...
35. ..., through an inductor, so that the current in coil B is delayed with respect to current in A. At unity power factor, the current in A is in phase with the circuit current, and coil A provides maximum **torque**, driving the instrument pointer toward the 1.0 mark on the scale. At zero power factor, the current in coil B is in phase with circuit current, and coil B provides torque to drive the pointer towards...
36. ...and coil A provides maximum torque, driving the instrument pointer toward the 1.0 mark on the scale. At zero power factor, the current in coil B is in phase with circuit current, and coil B provides **torque** to drive the pointer towards 0. At intermediate values of power factor, the torques provided by the two coils add and the pointer takes up intermediate positions. Another electromechanical instrument...
37. ...ces is at any given point proportional to the magnitude of its magnetic moment. In addition, when the magnet is put into an external magnetic field, produced by a different source, it is subject to a **torque** tending to orient the magnetic moment parallel to the field. The amount of this torque is proportional both to the magnetic moment and the external field. A magnet may also be subject to a force driv...
38. ...tion, when the magnet is put into an external magnetic field, produced by a different source, it is subject to a torque tending to orient the magnetic moment parallel to the field. The amount of this **torque** is proportional both to the magnetic moment and the external field. A magnet may also be subject to a force driving it in one direction or another, according to the positions and orientations of the...
39. ...in one direction or another, according to the positions and orientations of the magnet and source. If the field is uniform in space, the magnet is subject to no net force, although it is subject to a **torque**. A wire in the shape of a circle with area "A" and carrying current "I" has a magnetic moment of magnitude equal to "IA". The magnetization of a magnetized material is the local value of its magnetic...
40. ...ectric current flows in a direction perpendicular to the layers. Other metal-based spintronics devices: Non-volatile spin-logic devices to enable scaling are being extensively studied. Spin-transfer, **torque**-based logic devices that use spins and magnets for information processing have been proposed. These devices are part of the ITRS exploratory road map. Logic-in memory applications are already in the...
41. ...s a read/write cycle of under 50 nanoseconds. Everspin has since developed a 4 Mb version. Two second-generation MRAM techniques are in development: thermal-assisted switching (TAS) and spin-transfer **torque** (STT). Another design, racetrack memory, a novel memory architecture proposed by Dr. Stuart S. P. Parkin, encodes information in the direction of magnetization between domain walls of a ferromagnetic...
42. ...current rather than fields are also being investigated in antiferromagnets as fields are ineffective anyway. Writing methods currently being investigated in antiferromagnets are through spin-transfer **torque** and spin-orbit torque from the spin Hall effect and the Rashba effect. Reading information in antiferromagnets via magnetoresistance effects such as tunnel magnetoresistance is also being explored. L...
43. ...elds are also being investigated in antiferromagnets as fields are ineffective anyway. Writing methods currently being investigated in antiferromagnets are through spin-transfer torque and spin-orbit **torque** from the spin Hall effect and the Rashba effect. Reading information in antiferromagnets via magnetoresistance effects such as tunnel magnetoresistance is also being explored. Lightning Lightning is...
44. ...ectrical energy into mechanical energy. Most electric motors operate through the interaction between the motor's magnetic field and electric current in a wire winding to generate force in the form of **torque** applied on the motor's shaft. An electric generator is mechanically identical to an electric motor, but operates in reverse, converting mechanical energy into electrical energy. Electric motors can b...
45. ...braking with traction motors, electric motors can be used in reverse as generators to recover energy that might otherwise be lost as heat and friction. Electric motors produce linear or rotary force (**torque**) intended to propel some external mechanism. This makes them a type of actuator. They are generally designed for continuous rotation, or for linear movement over a significant distance compared to it...
46. ...plying current to the rotor. The windings on the rotor are connected to the commutator segments. The commutator reverses the current direction in the rotor windings with each half turn (180°), so the **torque** applied to the rotor is always in the same direction. Without this reversal, the direction of torque on each rotor winding would reverse with each half turn, stopping the rotor. Commutated motors hav...
47. ...commutator reverses the current direction in the rotor windings with each half turn (180°), so the torque applied to the rotor is always in the same direction. Without this reversal, the direction of **torque** on each rotor winding would reverse with each half turn, stopping the rotor. Commutated motors have been mostly replaced by brushless motors, permanent magnet motors, and induction motors. The motor...
48. ...magnetism, electrostatics and piezoelectricity. In magnetic motors, magnetic fields are formed in both the rotor and the stator. The product between these two fields gives rise to a force and thus a **torque** on the motor shaft. One or both of these fields changes as the rotor turns. This is done by switching the poles on and off at the right time, or varying the strength of the pole. Motors can be design...
49. ...t 100 kW are used in electric vehicles. They also find use in electric model aircraft. The switched reluctance motor (SRM) has no brushes or permanent magnets, and the rotor has no electric currents. **Torque** comes from a slight misalignment of poles on the rotor with poles on the stator. The rotor aligns itself with the magnetic field of the stator, while the stator field windings are sequentially energi...
50. ...field windings follows the path of least magnetic sending the flux through rotor poles that are closest to the energized poles of the stator, thereby magnetizing those poles of the rotor and creating **torque**. As the rotor turns, different windings are energized, keeping the rotor turning. SRMs are used in some appliances and vehicles. A commutated, electrically excited, series or parallel wound motor is...
51. ...the motor field pole-pieces that, for DC, would have used solid (un-laminated) iron. They are now rarely used. An advantage is that AC power may be used on motors that specifically have high starting **torque** and compact design if high running speeds are used. By contrast, maintenance is higher and lifetimes are shortened. Such motors are used in devices that are not heavily used, and have high starting-t...
52. ...e and compact design if high running speeds are used. By contrast, maintenance is higher and lifetimes are shortened. Such motors are used in devices that are not heavily used, and have high starting-**torque** demands. Multiple taps on the field coil provide (imprecise) stepped speed control. Household blenders that advertise many speeds typically combine a field coil with several taps and a diode that can...
53. .... The bars and rings as a whole are much like an animal's rotating exercise cage. Currents induced into this winding provide the rotor magnetic field. The shape of the rotor bars determines the speed-**torque** characteristics. At low speeds, the current induced in the squirrel cage is nearly at line frequency and tends to stay in the outer parts of the cage. As the motor accelerates, the slip frequency bec...
54. ...power that would otherwise be wasted into the power system through an inverter or separate motor-generator. WRIMs are used primarily to start a high inertia load or a load that requires high starting **torque** across the full speed range. By correctly selecting the resistors used in the secondary resistance or slip ring starter, the motor is able to produce maximum torque at a relatively low supply current...
55. ...a load that requires high starting torque across the full speed range. By correctly selecting the resistors used in the secondary resistance or slip ring starter, the motor is able to produce maximum **torque** at a relatively low supply current from zero speed to full speed. Motor speed can be changed because the motor's torque curve is effectively modified by the amount of resistance connected to the roto...
56. ...secondary resistance or slip ring starter, the motor is able to produce maximum torque at a relatively low supply current from zero speed to full speed. Motor speed can be changed because the motor's **torque** curve is effectively modified by the amount of resistance connected to the rotor circuit. Increasing resistance lowers the speed of maximum torque. If the resistance is increased beyond the point whe...
57. ...peed. Motor speed can be changed because the motor's torque curve is effectively modified by the amount of resistance connected to the rotor circuit. Increasing resistance lowers the speed of maximum **torque**. If the resistance is increased beyond the point where the maximum torque occurs at zero speed, the torque is further reduced. When used with a load that has a torque curve that increases with speed,...
58. ...tively modified by the amount of resistance connected to the rotor circuit. Increasing resistance lowers the speed of maximum torque. If the resistance is increased beyond the point where the maximum **torque** occurs at zero speed, the torque is further reduced. When used with a load that has a torque curve that increases with speed, the motor operates at the speed where the torque developed by the motor i...
59. ...resistance connected to the rotor circuit. Increasing resistance lowers the speed of maximum torque. If the resistance is increased beyond the point where the maximum torque occurs at zero speed, the **torque** is further reduced. When used with a load that has a torque curve that increases with speed, the motor operates at the speed where the torque developed by the motor is equal to the load torque. Reduc...
60. ...ance lowers the speed of maximum torque. If the resistance is increased beyond the point where the maximum torque occurs at zero speed, the torque is further reduced. When used with a load that has a **torque** curve that increases with speed, the motor operates at the speed where the torque developed by the motor is equal to the load torque. Reducing the load causes the motor to speed up, while increasing...
61. ...point where the maximum torque occurs at zero speed, the torque is further reduced. When used with a load that has a torque curve that increases with speed, the motor operates at the speed where the **torque** developed by the motor is equal to the load torque. Reducing the load causes the motor to speed up, while increasing the load causes the motor to slow down until the load and motor torque are again e...
62. ...d, the torque is further reduced. When used with a load that has a torque curve that increases with speed, the motor operates at the speed where the torque developed by the motor is equal to the load **torque**. Reducing the load causes the motor to speed up, while increasing the load causes the motor to slow down until the load and motor torque are again equal. Operated in this manner, the slip losses are...
63. ...d where the torque developed by the motor is equal to the load torque. Reducing the load causes the motor to speed up, while increasing the load causes the motor to slow down until the load and motor **torque** are again equal. Operated in this manner, the slip losses are dissipated in the secondary resistors and can be significant. The speed regulation and net efficiency is poor. A torque motor can operate...
64. ...he load and motor torque are again equal. Operated in this manner, the slip losses are dissipated in the secondary resistors and can be significant. The speed regulation and net efficiency is poor. A **torque** motor can operate indefinitely while stalled, that is, with the rotor blocked from turning, without incurring damage. In this mode of operation, the motor applies a steady torque to the load. A commo...
65. ...fficiency is poor. A torque motor can operate indefinitely while stalled, that is, with the rotor blocked from turning, without incurring damage. In this mode of operation, the motor applies a steady **torque** to the load. A common application is the supply- and take-up reel motors in a tape drive. In this application, driven by a low voltage, the characteristics of these motors apply a steady light tensio...
66. ...voltage, the characteristics of these motors apply a steady light tension to the tape whether or not the capstan is feeding tape past the tape heads. Driven from a higher voltage (delivering a higher **torque**), torque motors can achieve fast-forward and rewind operation without requiring additional mechanics such as gears or clutches. In the computer gaming world, torque motors are used in force feedback...
67. ...the characteristics of these motors apply a steady light tension to the tape whether or not the capstan is feeding tape past the tape heads. Driven from a higher voltage (delivering a higher torque), **torque** motors can achieve fast-forward and rewind operation without requiring additional mechanics such as gears or clutches. In the computer gaming world, torque motors are used in force feedback steering...
68. ...igher voltage (delivering a higher torque), torque motors can achieve fast-forward and rewind operation without requiring additional mechanics such as gears or clutches. In the computer gaming world, **torque** motors are used in force feedback steering wheels. Another common application is to control the throttle of an internal combustion engine with an electronic governor. The motor works against a return...
69. ...m or from a magnetic pickup and depending on the speed, makes small adjustments to the amount of current. If the engine slows down relative to the desired speed, the current increases, producing more **torque**, pulling against the return spring and opening the throttle. Should the engine run too fast, the governor reduces the current, allowing the return spring to pull back and reduce the throttle. A synch...
70. ...coils passing magnets at the same frequency as the AC and produces a magnetic field to drive it. It has zero slip under typical operating conditions. By contrast induction motors must slip to produce **torque**. One type of synchronous motor is like an induction motor except that the rotor is excited by a DC field. Slip rings and brushes conduct current to the rotor. The rotor poles connect to each other an...
71. ...motor except that the rotor is excited by a DC field. Slip rings and brushes conduct current to the rotor. The rotor poles connect to each other and move at the same speed. Another type, for low load **torque**, has flats ground onto a conventional squirrel-cage rotor to create discrete poles. Yet another, as made by Hammond for its pre-World War II clocks, and in older Hammond organs, has no rotor windings...
72. ...y do not drift. Low-power synchronous timing motors (such as those for traditional electric clocks) may have multi-pole permanent magnet external cup rotors, and use shading coils to provide starting **torque**. "Telechron" clock motors have shaded poles for starting torque, and a two-spoke ring rotor that performs like a discrete two-pole rotor. Doubly fed electric motors have two independent multiphase wi...
73. ...se for traditional electric clocks) may have multi-pole permanent magnet external cup rotors, and use shading coils to provide starting torque. "Telechron" clock motors have shaded poles for starting **torque**, and a two-spoke ring rotor that performs like a discrete two-pole rotor. Doubly fed electric motors have two independent multiphase winding sets, which contribute active (i.e., working) power to the...
74. ...eration. Two independent multiphase winding sets (i.e., dual armature) are the maximum provided in a single package without topology duplication. Doubly-fed electric motors have an effective constant **torque** speed range that is twice synchronous speed for a given frequency of excitation. This is twice the constant torque speed range as singly-fed electric machines, which have only one active winding set....
75. ...without topology duplication. Doubly-fed electric motors have an effective constant torque speed range that is twice synchronous speed for a given frequency of excitation. This is twice the constant **torque** speed range as singly-fed electric machines, which have only one active winding set. A doubly-fed motor allows for a smaller electronic converter but the cost of the rotor winding and slip rings may...
76. ...ed by low shrinkage and low exotherm, and are typically UL 1446 recognized as a potting compound insulated with , Class H rating. The unique advantage of ironless DC motors is the absence of cogging (**torque** variations caused by changing attraction between the iron and the magnets). Parasitic eddy currents cannot form in the rotor as it is totally ironless, although iron rotors are laminated. This can gr...
77. ...stem. Servomotors are used in applications such as machine tools, pen plotters, and other process systems. Motors intended for use in a servomechanism must have predictable characteristics for speed, **torque**, and power. The speed/torque curve is important and is high ratio for a servomotor. Dynamic response characteristics such as winding inductance and rotor inertia are important; these factors limit pe...
78. ...applications such as machine tools, pen plotters, and other process systems. Motors intended for use in a servomechanism must have predictable characteristics for speed, torque, and power. The speed/**torque** curve is important and is high ratio for a servomotor. Dynamic response characteristics such as winding inductance and rotor inertia are important; these factors limit performance. Large, powerful, b...
79. ...C synchronous motors, stepper motors and SRMs are classified as variable reluctance motor type. A linear motor is essentially any electric motor that has been "unrolled" so that, instead of producing **torque** (rotation), it produces a straight-line force along its length. Linear motors are most commonly induction motors or stepper motors. Linear motors are commonly found in roller-coasters where the rapid...
80. ...d regulation in a DC motor. If the mechanical load increases, the motor slows down; a lower back EMF results, and more current is drawn from the supply. This increased current provides the additional **torque** to balance the load. In AC machines, it is sometimes useful to consider a back EMF source within the machine; this is of particular concern for close speed regulation of induction motors on VFDs. Mot...
81. ...15 is energy conversion efficiency, formula_16 is electrical input power, and formula_17 is mechanical output power: where formula_20 is input voltage, formula_1 is input current, formula_7 is output **torque**, and formula_23 is output angular velocity. It is possible to derive analytically the point of maximum efficiency. It is typically at less than 1/2 the stall torque. Various national regulatory autho...
82. ...input current, formula_7 is output torque, and formula_23 is output angular velocity. It is possible to derive analytically the point of maximum efficiency. It is typically at less than 1/2 the stall **torque**. Various national regulatory authorities have enacted legislation to encourage the manufacture and use of higher-efficiency motors. Electric motors have efficiencies ranging from around 15%-20% for s...
83. ...re: From this, he showed that the most efficient motors are likely to have relatively large magnetic poles. However, the equation only directly relates to non PM motors. Electromagnetic motors derive **torque** from the vector product of the interacting fields. Calculating torque requires knowledge of the fields in the air gap. Once these have been established, the torque is the integral of all the force ve...
84. ...have relatively large magnetic poles. However, the equation only directly relates to non PM motors. Electromagnetic motors derive torque from the vector product of the interacting fields. Calculating **torque** requires knowledge of the fields in the air gap. Once these have been established, the torque is the integral of all the force vectors multiplied by the vector's radius. The current flowing in the wi...
85. ...tors. Electromagnetic motors derive torque from the vector product of the interacting fields. Calculating torque requires knowledge of the fields in the air gap. Once these have been established, the **torque** is the integral of all the force vectors multiplied by the vector's radius. The current flowing in the winding produces the fields. For a motor using a magnetic material the field is not proportional...
86. ...y the vector's radius. The current flowing in the winding produces the fields. For a motor using a magnetic material the field is not proportional to the current. A figure relating the current to the **torque** can inform motor selection. The maximum torque for a motor depends on the maximum current, absent thermal considerations. When optimally designed within a given core saturation constraint and for a g...
87. ...he winding produces the fields. For a motor using a magnetic material the field is not proportional to the current. A figure relating the current to the torque can inform motor selection. The maximum **torque** for a motor depends on the maximum current, absent thermal considerations. When optimally designed within a given core saturation constraint and for a given active current (i.e., torque current), vol...
88. .... The maximum torque for a motor depends on the maximum current, absent thermal considerations. When optimally designed within a given core saturation constraint and for a given active current (i.e., **torque** current), voltage, pole-pair number, excitation frequency (i.e., synchronous speed), and air-gap flux density, all categories of electric motors/generators exhibit virtually the same maximum continuo...
89. ..., voltage, pole-pair number, excitation frequency (i.e., synchronous speed), and air-gap flux density, all categories of electric motors/generators exhibit virtually the same maximum continuous shaft **torque** (i.e., operating torque) within a given air-gap area with winding slots and back-iron depth, which determines the physical size of electromagnetic core. Some applications require bursts of torque bey...
90. ...ber, excitation frequency (i.e., synchronous speed), and air-gap flux density, all categories of electric motors/generators exhibit virtually the same maximum continuous shaft torque (i.e., operating **torque**) within a given air-gap area with winding slots and back-iron depth, which determines the physical size of electromagnetic core. Some applications require bursts of torque beyond the maximum, such as...
91. ...aft torque (i.e., operating torque) within a given air-gap area with winding slots and back-iron depth, which determines the physical size of electromagnetic core. Some applications require bursts of **torque** beyond the maximum, such as bursts to accelerate an electric vehicle from standstill. Always limited by magnetic core saturation or safe operating temperature rise and voltage, the capacity for torqu...
92. ...orque beyond the maximum, such as bursts to accelerate an electric vehicle from standstill. Always limited by magnetic core saturation or safe operating temperature rise and voltage, the capacity for **torque** bursts beyond the maximum differs significantly across motor/generator types. Electric machines without a transformer circuit topology, such as that of WRSMs or PMSMs, cannot provide torque bursts wi...
93. ...acity for torque bursts beyond the maximum differs significantly across motor/generator types. Electric machines without a transformer circuit topology, such as that of WRSMs or PMSMs, cannot provide **torque** bursts without saturating the magnetic core. At that point, additional current cannot increase torque. Furthermore, the permanent magnet assembly of PMSMs can be irreparably damaged. Electric machine...
94. ...c machines without a transformer circuit topology, such as that of WRSMs or PMSMs, cannot provide torque bursts without saturating the magnetic core. At that point, additional current cannot increase **torque**. Furthermore, the permanent magnet assembly of PMSMs can be irreparably damaged. Electric machines with a transformer circuit topology, such as induction machines, induction doubly-fed electric machi...
95. ...Electric machines with a transformer circuit topology, such as induction machines, induction doubly-fed electric machines, and induction or synchronous wound-rotor doubly-fed (WRDF) machines, permit **torque** bursts because the EMF-induced active current on either side of the transformer oppose each other and thus contribute nothing to the transformer coupled magnetic core flux density, avoiding core satu...
96. ...t one port of the transformer circuit and as a result, the reactive impedance of the transformer circuit becomes dominant as slip increases, which limits the magnitude of active (i.e., real) current. **Torque** bursts two to three times higher than the maximum design torque are realizable. The brushless wound-rotor synchronous doubly-fed (BWRSDF) machine is the only electric machine with a truly dual ported...
97. ...ive impedance of the transformer circuit becomes dominant as slip increases, which limits the magnitude of active (i.e., real) current. Torque bursts two to three times higher than the maximum design **torque** are realizable. The brushless wound-rotor synchronous doubly-fed (BWRSDF) machine is the only electric machine with a truly dual ported transformer circuit topology (i.e., both ports independently ex...
98. ...topology is known to be unstable and requires a multiphase slip-ring-brush assembly to propagate limited power to the rotor winding set. If a precision means were available to instantaneously control **torque** angle and slip for synchronous operation during operation while simultaneously providing brushless power to the rotor winding set, the active current of the BWRSDF machine would be independent of the...
99. ...ile simultaneously providing brushless power to the rotor winding set, the active current of the BWRSDF machine would be independent of the reactive impedance of the transformer circuit and bursts of **torque** significantly higher than the maximum operating torque and far beyond the practical capability of any other type of electric machine would be realizable. Torque bursts greater than eight times operat...
100. ...or winding set, the active current of the BWRSDF machine would be independent of the reactive impedance of the transformer circuit and bursts of torque significantly higher than the maximum operating **torque** and far beyond the practical capability of any other type of electric machine would be realizable. Torque bursts greater than eight times operating torque have been calculated. The continuous torque...
101. ...the transformer circuit and bursts of torque significantly higher than the maximum operating torque and far beyond the practical capability of any other type of electric machine would be realizable. **Torque** bursts greater than eight times operating torque have been calculated. The continuous torque density of conventional electric machines is determined by the size of the air-gap area and the back-iron...
102. ...nificantly higher than the maximum operating torque and far beyond the practical capability of any other type of electric machine would be realizable. Torque bursts greater than eight times operating **torque** have been calculated. The continuous torque density of conventional electric machines is determined by the size of the air-gap area and the back-iron depth, which are determined by the power rating o...
103. ...torque and far beyond the practical capability of any other type of electric machine would be realizable. Torque bursts greater than eight times operating torque have been calculated. The continuous **torque** density of conventional electric machines is determined by the size of the air-gap area and the back-iron depth, which are determined by the power rating of the armature winding set, the speed of the...
104. ...mature winding set, the speed of the machine, and the achievable air-gap flux density before core saturation. Despite the high coercivity of neodymium or samarium-cobalt permanent magnets, continuous **torque** density is virtually the same amongst electric machines with optimally designed armature winding sets. Continuous torque density relates to method of cooling and permissible operation period before d...
105. ...high coercivity of neodymium or samarium-cobalt permanent magnets, continuous torque density is virtually the same amongst electric machines with optimally designed armature winding sets. Continuous **torque** density relates to method of cooling and permissible operation period before destruction by overheating of windings or permanent magnet damage. Other sources state that various e-machine topologies h...
106. ...es to method of cooling and permissible operation period before destruction by overheating of windings or permanent magnet damage. Other sources state that various e-machine topologies have differing **torque** density. One source shows the following: where—specific torque density is normalized to 1.0 for the surface permanent magnet (SPM)—brushless ac, 180° current conduction. Torque density is approximate...
107. ...destruction by overheating of windings or permanent magnet damage. Other sources state that various e-machine topologies have differing torque density. One source shows the following: where—specific **torque** density is normalized to 1.0 for the surface permanent magnet (SPM)—brushless ac, 180° current conduction. Torque density is approximately four times greater for liquid cooled motors, compared to tho...
108. ...ologies have differing torque density. One source shows the following: where—specific torque density is normalized to 1.0 for the surface permanent magnet (SPM)—brushless ac, 180° current conduction. **Torque** density is approximately four times greater for liquid cooled motors, compared to those which are air cooled. A source comparing direct current, induction motors (IM), PMSM and SRM showed: Another so...
109. ...ooled motors, compared to those which are air cooled. A source comparing direct current, induction motors (IM), PMSM and SRM showed: Another source notes that PMSM up to 1 MW have considerably higher **torque** density than induction machines. The continuous power density is determined by the product of the continuous torque density and the constant torque speed range. Electric motors can achieve densities...
110. ...and SRM showed: Another source notes that PMSM up to 1 MW have considerably higher torque density than induction machines. The continuous power density is determined by the product of the continuous **torque** density and the constant torque speed range. Electric motors can achieve densities of up to 20 kW/kg, meaning 20 kilowatts of output power per kilogram. Acoustic noise and vibrations are usually clas...
111. ...notes that PMSM up to 1 MW have considerably higher torque density than induction machines. The continuous power density is determined by the product of the continuous torque density and the constant **torque** speed range. Electric motors can achieve densities of up to 20 kW/kg, meaning 20 kilowatts of output power per kilogram. Acoustic noise and vibrations are usually classified in three sources: The lat...
112. ...ternal field from the field produced by the sample. These include counterwound coils that cancel the external uniform field and background measurements with the sample removed from the coil. Magnetic **torque** magnetometry can be even more sensitive than SQUID magnetometry. However, magnetic torque magnetometry doesn't measure magnetism directly as all the previously mentioned methods do. Magnetic torque m...
113. ...cancel the external uniform field and background measurements with the sample removed from the coil. Magnetic torque magnetometry can be even more sensitive than SQUID magnetometry. However, magnetic **torque** magnetometry doesn't measure magnetism directly as all the previously mentioned methods do. Magnetic torque magnetometry instead measures the torque τ acting on a sample's magnetic moment μ as a resu...
114. ...c torque magnetometry can be even more sensitive than SQUID magnetometry. However, magnetic torque magnetometry doesn't measure magnetism directly as all the previously mentioned methods do. Magnetic **torque** magnetometry instead measures the torque τ acting on a sample's magnetic moment μ as a result of a uniform magnetic field B, τ = μ × B. A torque is thus a measure of the sample's magnetic or shape an...
115. ...nsitive than SQUID magnetometry. However, magnetic torque magnetometry doesn't measure magnetism directly as all the previously mentioned methods do. Magnetic torque magnetometry instead measures the **torque** τ acting on a sample's magnetic moment μ as a result of a uniform magnetic field B, τ = μ × B. A torque is thus a measure of the sample's magnetic or shape anisotropy. In some cases the sample's magn...
116. ...y as all the previously mentioned methods do. Magnetic torque magnetometry instead measures the torque τ acting on a sample's magnetic moment μ as a result of a uniform magnetic field B, τ = μ × B. A **torque** is thus a measure of the sample's magnetic or shape anisotropy. In some cases the sample's magnetization can be extracted from the measured torque. In other cases, the magnetic torque measurement is...
117. ...a result of a uniform magnetic field B, τ = μ × B. A torque is thus a measure of the sample's magnetic or shape anisotropy. In some cases the sample's magnetization can be extracted from the measured **torque**. In other cases, the magnetic torque measurement is used to detect magnetic phase transitions or quantum oscillations. The most common way to measure magnetic torque is to mount the sample on a canti...
118. ...B, τ = μ × B. A torque is thus a measure of the sample's magnetic or shape anisotropy. In some cases the sample's magnetization can be extracted from the measured torque. In other cases, the magnetic **torque** measurement is used to detect magnetic phase transitions or quantum oscillations. The most common way to measure magnetic torque is to mount the sample on a cantilever and measure the displacement vi...
119. ...an be extracted from the measured torque. In other cases, the magnetic torque measurement is used to detect magnetic phase transitions or quantum oscillations. The most common way to measure magnetic **torque** is to mount the sample on a cantilever and measure the displacement via capacitance measurement between the cantilever and nearby fixed object, or by measuring the piezoelectricity of the cantilever,...
120. ...and reasonably tolerant to noise, and thus can be implemented in a wide range of environments, including a dilution refrigerator. Faraday force magnetometry can also be complicated by the presence of **torque** (see previous technique). This can be circumvented by varying the gradient field independently of the applied DC field so the torque and the Faraday force contribution can be separated, and/or by des...
121. ...aday force magnetometry can also be complicated by the presence of torque (see previous technique). This can be circumvented by varying the gradient field independently of the applied DC field so the **torque** and the Faraday force contribution can be separated, and/or by designing a Faraday force magnetometer that prevents the sample from being rotated. Optical magnetometry makes use of various optical te...
122. ...me manufacturers use the cheaper method of a taper interface and simple compression to attempt sealing. The metal case/shell (or the "jacket", as many people call it) of the spark plug withstands the **torque** of tightening the plug, serves to remove heat from the insulator and pass it on to the cylinder head, and acts as the ground for the sparks passing through the central electrode to the side electrode...
123. ...ollow or folded metal washer which is crushed slightly between the flat surface of the head and that of the plug, just above the threads. Some spark plugs have a tapered seat that uses no washer. The **torque** for installing these plugs is supposed to be lower than a washer-sealed plug. Spark plugs with tapered seats should never be installed in vehicles with heads requiring washers, and vice versa. Otherw...
124. ...but primarily the actual temperature within the combustion chamber. There is no direct relationship between the actual operating temperature of the spark plug and spark voltage. However, the level of **torque** currently being produced by the engine will strongly influence spark plug operating temperature because the maximal temperature and pressure occur when the engine is operating near peak torque output...
125. ...vel of torque currently being produced by the engine will strongly influence spark plug operating temperature because the maximal temperature and pressure occur when the engine is operating near peak **torque** output (torque and rotational speed directly determine the power output). The temperature of the insulator responds to the thermal conditions it is exposed to in the combustion chamber, but not vice...
126. ...urrently being produced by the engine will strongly influence spark plug operating temperature because the maximal temperature and pressure occur when the engine is operating near peak torque output (**torque** and rotational speed directly determine the power output). The temperature of the insulator responds to the thermal conditions it is exposed to in the combustion chamber, but not vice versa. If the t...
127. ...e force exerted by one dipole moment on another separated in space by a vector can be calculated using: or where is the distance between dipoles. The force acting on is in the opposite direction. The **torque** can be obtained from the formula The magnetic scalar potential produced by a finite source, but external to it, can be represented by a multipole expansion. Each term in the expansion is associated w...
128. ...s a synchronous "longstator" linear motor for both propulsion and braking. It works like a rotating electric motor whose stator is "unrolled" along the underside of the guideway; instead of producing **torque** (rotation) it produces a linear force along its length. The electromagnets in the maglev vehicle which lift it also work as the equivalent of the excitation portion (rotor) of this linear electric mo...
129. ...illari effect. Two other effects are related to magnetostriction: the Matteucci effect is the creation of a helical anisotropy of the susceptibility of a magnetostrictive material when subjected to a **torque** and the Wiedemann effect is the twisting of these materials when a helical magnetic field is applied to them. The Villari reversal is the change in sign of the magnetostriction of iron from positive...
130. ...by eddy currents as a brake to slow or stop moving objects. Since there is no contact with a brake shoe or drum, there is no mechanical wear. However, an eddy current brake cannot provide a "holding" **torque** and so may be used in combination with mechanical brakes, for example, on overhead cranes. Another application is on some roller coasters, where heavy copper plates extending from the car are moved b...
131. ...pending on the rotation of the rods. Such a device makes an efficient mechanical magnetic latch requiring no power. A detailed study of this arrangement has shown that each rod is subject to a strong **torque** from its neighboring rods, and therefore requires mechanical stabilization. However, a simple and efficient solution, providing both stabilization and the ability to rotate each rod alternately, is s...
132. ...ic dipole moment is the combination of strength and orientation of a magnet or other object or system that exerts a magnetic field. The magnetic dipole moment of an object determines the magnitude of **torque** the object experiences in a given magnetic field. When the same magnetic field is applied, objects with larger magnetic moments experience larger torques. The strength (and direction) of this torque...
133. ...torque the object experiences in a given magnetic field. When the same magnetic field is applied, objects with larger magnetic moments experience larger torques. The strength (and direction) of this **torque** depends not only on the magnitude of the magnetic moment but also on its orientation relative to the direction of the magnetic field. Its direction points from the south pole to north pole of the mag...
134. ...and neutronsas of the nucleus of an atom); and loops of electric current such as exerted by electromagnets. The magnetic moment can be defined as a vector (really pseudovector) relating the aligning **torque** on the object from an externally applied magnetic field to the field vector itself. The relationship is given by: formula_1 where is the torque acting on the dipole, is the external magnetic field, a...
135. ...as a vector (really pseudovector) relating the aligning torque on the object from an externally applied magnetic field to the field vector itself. The relationship is given by: formula_1 where is the **torque** acting on the dipole, is the external magnetic field, and is the magnetic moment. This definition is based on how one could, in principle, measure the magnetic moment of an unknown sample. For a curr...
136. ...n other SI derived units including: formula_3 where N is newton (SI derived unit of force), T is tesla (SI derived unit of magnetic flux density), and J is joule (SI derived unit of energy). Although **torque** (N·m) and energy (J) are dimensionally equivalent, torques are never expressed in units of energy. In the CGS system, there are several different sets of electromagnetism units, of which the main one...
137. ...each particle. Further, care must be used to distinguish between the intrinsic angular momentum (or spin) of the particle and the particle's orbital angular momentum. See below for more details. The **torque** on an object having a magnetic dipole moment in a uniform magnetic field is: formula_17 This is valid for the moment due to any localized current distribution provided that the magnetic field is unif...
138. ...magnetic field is: formula_17 This is valid for the moment due to any localized current distribution provided that the magnetic field is uniform. For non-uniform B the equation is also valid for the **torque** about the center of the magnetic dipole provided that the magnetic dipole is small enough. An electron, nucleus, or atom placed in a uniform magnetic field will precess with a frequency known as the...
139. ...coupled together by a magnetic field generated by permanent magnets on the armatures. The transmitter armature is turned either by or as the rotor of an electric motor, and its magnetic field exerts **torque** on the receiver armature, turning it. The magnetic field acts like a mechanical coupling between the armatures. The receiver armature produces power to drive the load, either by turning a separate el...
140. ...e the data on it, although this approach has a scaling limit at around 90–130 nm. There are two 2nd generation techniques currently being developed: Thermal Assisted Switching (TAS) and Spin-transfer **torque**. Magnetic tunnel junctions are also used for sensing applications. Today they are commonly used for position sensors and current sensors in various automotive, industrial and consumer applications. T...
141. ...or electrons of a given symmetry, and thus crafts the effective TMR ratio and its temperature dependence. This low barrier height in turn enables the high current densities required for spin-transfer **torque**, discussed hereafter. The effect of spin-transfer torque has been studied and applied widely in MTJs, where there is a tunnelling barrier sandwiched between a set of two ferromagnetic electrodes such...
142. ...ective TMR ratio and its temperature dependence. This low barrier height in turn enables the high current densities required for spin-transfer torque, discussed hereafter. The effect of spin-transfer **torque** has been studied and applied widely in MTJs, where there is a tunnelling barrier sandwiched between a set of two ferromagnetic electrodes such that there is (free) magnetization of the right electrod...
143. ...n-polarizer. This may then be pinned to some selecting transistor in a magnetoresistive random-access memory device, or connected to a preamplifier in a hard disk drive application. The spin-transfer **torque** vector, driven by the linear response voltage, can be computed from the expectation value of the torque operator: formula_7 where formula_8 is the gauge-invariant nonequilibrium density matrix for th...
144. ...mory device, or connected to a preamplifier in a hard disk drive application. The spin-transfer torque vector, driven by the linear response voltage, can be computed from the expectation value of the **torque** operator: formula_7 where formula_8 is the gauge-invariant nonequilibrium density matrix for the steady-state transport, in the zero-temperature limit, in the linear-response regime, and the torque o...
145. ...e torque operator: formula_7 where formula_8 is the gauge-invariant nonequilibrium density matrix for the steady-state transport, in the zero-temperature limit, in the linear-response regime, and the **torque** operator formula_9 is obtained from the time derivative of the spin operator: formula_10 Using the general form of a 1D tight-binding Hamiltonian: formula_11 where total magnetization (as macrospin)...
146. ...is then possible to first obtain an analytical expression for formula_9 (which can be expressed in compact form using formula_18, and the vector of Pauli spin matrices formula_19). The spin-transfer **torque** vector in general MTJs has two components: a parallel and perpendicular component: A parallel component: formula_20 And a perpendicular component: formula_21 In symmetric MTJs (made of electrodes wit...
147. ...endicular component: A parallel component: formula_20 And a perpendicular component: formula_21 In symmetric MTJs (made of electrodes with the same geometry and exchange splitting), the spin-transfer **torque** vector has only one active component, as the perpendicular component disappears: formula_22. Therefore, only formula_23 vs. formula_24 needs to be plotted at the site of the right electrode to charac...
148. ...ilized field induced writing. The 2nd generation is being developed through two approaches: thermal-assisted switching (TAS) which is currently being developed by Crocus Technology, and spin-transfer **torque** (STT) on which Crocus, Hynix, IBM, and several other companies are working. However, with storage density and capacity orders of magnitude smaller than an HDD, MRAM is useful in applications where mo...
149. ...two stationary objects from slipping on their own), kinetic friction (friction between two objects scraping/sliding past each other), or rolling (frictional force which prevents slipping but causes a **torque** to exert on a round object). The stress-strain constitutive relation for linear materials is commonly known as Hooke's law. In its simplest form, the law defines the spring constant (or elasticity co...
150. ...that polyphase power systems had a convenient mathematical tool for describing unbalanced load cases. The revolving magnetic field produced with a two-phase system allowed electric motors to provide **torque** from zero motor speed, which was not possible with a single-phase induction motor (without an additional starting means). Induction motors designed for two-phase operation use a similar winding confi...
151. ...otors must run on single-phase power (such as is usually distributed in homes), the motor must contain some mechanism to produce a revolving field, otherwise the motor cannot generate any stand-still **torque** and will not start. The field produced by a single-phase winding can provide energy to a motor already rotating, but without auxiliary mechanisms the motor will not accelerate from a stop. A rotating...
152. ...ng potentiometers below. That design, using no through-holes, made the range impervious to spills. The electronics section was made of four identical modules cooled by a single quiet, low-speed, high-**torque** fan. In each of the electronics modules, the 240 V, 60 Hz domestic line power was converted to between 20 V to 200 V of continuously variable DC by a phase-controlled rectifier, which was then conver...
153. ...range. Like thermocouple sensors, they often require a reference source. Other technologies have been investigated or implemented for use as power sensors but are not widely used today; these include **torque**-vane, electron-beam, MEMS, Hall effect and atomic fountain based sensors. The two main types of microwave power meters are: Power meters generally report the power in dBm (decibels relative to 1 mill...
154. ...ts, or electromagnets formed by a conducting coil. The armature must carry current, so it is always a conductor or a conductive coil, oriented normal to both the field and to the direction of motion, **torque** (rotating machine), or force (linear machine). The armature's role is twofold. The first is to carry current across the field, thus creating shaft torque in a rotating machine or force in a linear ma...
155. ...oth the field and to the direction of motion, torque (rotating machine), or force (linear machine). The armature's role is twofold. The first is to carry current across the field, thus creating shaft **torque** in a rotating machine or force in a linear machine. The second role is to generate an electromotive force (EMF). In the armature, an electromotive force is created by the relative motion of the armat...
156. ...otion of the armature and the field. When the machine or motor is used as a motor, this EMF opposes the armature current, and the armature converts electrical power to mechanical power in the form of **torque**, and transfers it via the shaft. When the machine is used as a generator, the armature EMF drives the armature current, and the shaft's movement is converted to electrical power. In an induction gene...
157. ...ed States. Gouy balance The Gouy balance, invented by the French physicist Louis Georges Gouy, is a device for measuring the magnetic susceptibility of a sample. The Gouy balance operates on magnetic **torque**, by placing the sample on a horizontal arm or beam suspended by a thin fiber, and placing either a permanent magnet or electromagnet on the other end of the arm, there is a magnetic field applied to...
158. ...r beam suspended by a thin fiber, and placing either a permanent magnet or electromagnet on the other end of the arm, there is a magnetic field applied to the system, causing the coil to experience a **torque** causing the arm to twist or rotate. The angle of rotation can then be calculated. Amongst a wide range of interest in optics, Brownian motion, and experimental physics, Gouy also had a strong intrigu...
159. ...ion. The dimensionless magnetic Reynolds number, formula_33, is also used in cases where there is no physical fluid involved. For formula_37 the skin effect is negligible and the eddy current braking **torque** follows the theoretical curve of an induction motor. For formula_38 the skin effect dominates and the braking torque decreases much slower with increasing speed than predicted by the induction motor...
160. ...nvolved. For formula_37 the skin effect is negligible and the eddy current braking torque follows the theoretical curve of an induction motor. For formula_38 the skin effect dominates and the braking **torque** decreases much slower with increasing speed than predicted by the induction motor model. Spin density wave Spin-density wave (SDW) and charge-density wave (CDW) are names for two similar low-energy o...
161. ...about a 27-day rotation period). The solar wind is guided by the Sun's magnetic field and hence largely emanates from the polar regions of the Sun; the induced spiral shape of the field causes a drag **torque** on the poles due to the magnetic tension force. During solar maximum the entire magnetic field of the Sun flips, thus alternating the polarity of the field every solar cycle. The heliospheric current...
162. ...tends to produce a sine-wave voltage. When connected to a circuit, some current will flow depending on how the voltage on the system is different from this open-circuit voltage. Note that mechanical **torque** (produced by a motor, required by a generator) corresponds only to the real power. Reactive power does not result in any torque. As the mechanical load on a synchronous motor increases, the stator cu...
163. ...ystem is different from this open-circuit voltage. Note that mechanical torque (produced by a motor, required by a generator) corresponds only to the real power. Reactive power does not result in any **torque**. As the mechanical load on a synchronous motor increases, the stator current formula_1 increases regardless of the field excitation. For both under- and over-excited motors, the power factor (p.f.) t...
164. ...ta can be entered on the instrument front panel or loaded from a medium such as floppy disk or USB stick, or down a bus such as USB or GPIB. The more expensive calibration kits will usually include a **torque** wrench to tighten connectors properly and a connector gauge to ensure there are no gross errors in the connectors. A calibration using a mechanical calibration kit may take a significant amount of ti...
165. ...in 1946. FMR arises from the precessional motion of the (usually quite large) magnetization formula_1 of a ferromagnetic material in an external magnetic field formula_2. The magnetic field exerts a **torque** on the sample magnetization which causes the magnetic moments in the sample to precess. The precession frequency of the magnetization depends on the orientation of the material, the strength of the m...
166. ...head lines increase the costs, and restrict the maximum speed of the trains. The asynchronous traction motor can run on a single RPM determined by the frequency of the feeding current and the loading **torque**. The solution was to use more secondary windings on phase converter, and more windings on motor different number of magnetic poles. A rotary phase converter (RPC) may be built as a motor-generator se...
167. ...roportional to input frequency, a change in the VFD's output frequency will cause the motor to change speed. Voltage is also changed in a way that results in the motor producing a relatively constant **torque** over the useful speed range. The output of a quality VFD is an approximation of a sine wave, with some high frequency harmonic content. Harmonic content will elevate motor temperature and may produce...
168. ...resonance wave is as follows: formula_18 If an engine is connected to a wheel through a shaft, the power is being transmitted in the rotational mechanical domain, meaning the effort and the flow are **torque** (τ) and angular velocity (ω) respectively. A word bond graph is a first step towards a bond graph, in which words define the components. As a word bond graph, this system would look like: formula_19...
169. ...e general method. This involves changing from using the words, to symbols representing the same items. These symbols are based on the generalized form, as explained above. As the engine is applying a **torque** to the wheel, it will be represented as a source of effort for the system. The wheel can be presented by an impedance on the system. Further, the torque and angular velocity symbols are dropped and r...
170. ...s explained above. As the engine is applying a torque to the wheel, it will be represented as a source of effort for the system. The wheel can be presented by an impedance on the system. Further, the **torque** and angular velocity symbols are dropped and replaced with the generalized symbols for effort and flow. While not necessary in the example, it is common to number the bonds, to keep track of in equat...
171. ...ital "S" with either a lower case "e" or "f" for effort or flow respectively. Sources will always have the arrow pointing away from the element. Examples of sources include: motors (source of effort, **torque**), voltage sources (source of effort), and current sources (source of flow). formula_31 where "J" indicates a junction. Sinks are elements that represent the output for a system. They are represented...
172. ...es of flow (formula_52) define flow, so they host the causal stroke: formula_53 Sources of effort (formula_54) define effort, so the other end hosts the causal stroke:  formula_55 Consider a constant-**torque** motor driving a wheel, i.e. a source of effort (formula_54). That would be drawn as follows: formula_57 Symmetrically, the side with the causal stroke (in this case the wheel) defines the flow for th...
173. ...otated azimuthally by π. That is, a dipole moment with Cartesian components formula_10 will have in image dipole moment formula_11. The dipole experiences a force in the "z" direction, given by and a **torque** in the plane perpendicular to the dipole and the conducting plane, Similar to the conducting plane, the case of a planar interface between two different dielectric media can be considered. If a point...
174. ...ith the main winding) disconnects the capacitor. The start capacitor is typically mounted to the side of the motor housing. These are called capacitor-start motors, that have relatively high starting **torque**. Typically they can have up-to four times as much starting torque as a split-phase motor and are used on applications such as compressors, pressure washers and any small device requiring high startin...
175. ...or is typically mounted to the side of the motor housing. These are called capacitor-start motors, that have relatively high starting torque. Typically they can have up-to four times as much starting **torque** as a split-phase motor and are used on applications such as compressors, pressure washers and any small device requiring high starting torques. Capacitor-run induction motors have a permanently conne...
176. ...t the frequency of the musical instrument's internal oscillators (one oscillator controls pitch and the other controls loudness).  Magnetic coupling A magnetic coupling is a component which transfers **torque** from one shaft to another using a magnetic field, rather than a physical mechanical connection. They are also known as magnetic drive couplings, magnetic shaft couplings, or magnetic disc couplings....
177. ...for liquid pumps, propeller systems, mine motors, conveyor belt motors and kiln elevators. Some diver propulsion vehicles and remotely operated underwater vehicles use magnetic couplings to transfer **torque** from the electric motor to the prop. Magnetic gearing is also being explored for use in utility-scale wind turbines as a means of enhancing reliability. The magnetic coupling has several advantages o...
178. ...ler or impeller in the water on the other side of the wall. This coupling features two face-to-face magnetized disks: the driving magnet on the dry side, and the driven magnet on the underwater side. **Torque** is transferred by shear forces between the attracting magnetic disks, but this attraction can also produce an axial load as the disks pull on each other. There are two main designs for the magnetic p...
179. ...agnetic pattern on each disk. One design minimizes the axial load by counterbalancing a magnetically attractive section with a magnetically repulsive section near the axis. The other design maximizes **torque** and resists the consequential axial load with a mechanical thrust bearing. A magnetic stirrer is another example of magnetic coupling. Magnetic couplings are often synchronous, meaning the output sha...
180. ...operation. Magnetic couplings offer protection against overload during operation. If the load on the driven component becomes too large, the two parts may slip out of sync and end the transmission of **torque**. This avoids damage to the system, protecting both the motor from excessive loads and the driven component from deformation. A magnetic coupling transmission device is relatively simple in structure,...
181. ...and Heaviside–Lorentz units. The abmho is not a unit of any these other systems. Motor soft starter A motor soft starter is a device used with AC electrical motors to temporarily reduce the load and **torque** in the powertrain and electric current surge of the motor during start-up. This reduces the mechanical stress on the motor and shaft, as well as the electrodynamic stresses on the attached power cabl...
182. ...nsist of mechanical or electrical devices, or a combination of both. Mechanical soft starters include clutches and several types of couplings using a fluid, magnetic forces, or steel shot to transmit **torque**, similar to other forms of torque limiter. Electrical soft starters can be any control system that reduces the torque by temporarily reducing the voltage or current input, or a device that temporaril...
183. ...devices, or a combination of both. Mechanical soft starters include clutches and several types of couplings using a fluid, magnetic forces, or steel shot to transmit torque, similar to other forms of **torque** limiter. Electrical soft starters can be any control system that reduces the torque by temporarily reducing the voltage or current input, or a device that temporarily alters how the motor is connecte...
184. ...eral types of couplings using a fluid, magnetic forces, or steel shot to transmit torque, similar to other forms of torque limiter. Electrical soft starters can be any control system that reduces the **torque** by temporarily reducing the voltage or current input, or a device that temporarily alters how the motor is connected in the electric circuit. Whenever the armature of an electric motor is moving, bot...
185. ...n motors is accompanied by inrush currents up to 7-10 times higher than running current, and higher efficiency motors can experience inrush currents 10-15 times running current. In addition, starting **torque** can be up to 3 times higher than running torque. The starting torque transient can create a sudden mechanical stress on the machine, which leads to a reduced service life. Moreover, the high inrush c...
186. ...7-10 times higher than running current, and higher efficiency motors can experience inrush currents 10-15 times running current. In addition, starting torque can be up to 3 times higher than running **torque**. The starting torque transient can create a sudden mechanical stress on the machine, which leads to a reduced service life. Moreover, the high inrush current stresses the power supply, which may lead...
187. ...an running current, and higher efficiency motors can experience inrush currents 10-15 times running current. In addition, starting torque can be up to 3 times higher than running torque. The starting **torque** transient can create a sudden mechanical stress on the machine, which leads to a reduced service life. Moreover, the high inrush current stresses the power supply, which may lead to voltage dips. As...
188. .../ asynchronous ] ranging from 25 kW 415 V to 30 MW 11 kV. Using an air core series reactor soft starter is very common practice for applications like pump, compressor, fan etc. Usually high starting **torque** applications do not use this method. Soft starters can be set up to the requirements of the individual application. Compared to variable-frequency drives, soft starters require very few user adjustme...
189. ...formed with a series of rings of ultra-low vapor pressure, oil-based liquid, held magnetically between the rotor and stator. As the ferrofluid retains its liquid properties even when magnetized, drag **torque** is very low. With the use of permanent magnets, the operating life and equipment maintenance cycles are generally very long. Ferrofluid-sealed feed-throughs reach their greatest performance levels by...
190. ...diagonal line through it terminating in an arrow head. For a preset component, the diagonal line terminates in a bar. Electromagnetic clutch Electromagnetic clutches operate electrically but transmit **torque** mechanically. This is why they used to be referred to as electro-mechanical clutches. Over the years, EM became known as electromagnetic versus electro-mechanical, referring more about their actuatio...
191. ...the current through the electromagnet. Slippage normally occurs only during acceleration. When the clutch is fully engaged, there is no relative slip, assuming the clutch is sized properly, and thus **torque** transfer is 100% efficient. This type of clutch is used in some lawnmowers, copy machines, and conveyor drives. Other applications include packaging machinery, printing machinery, food processing mac...
192. ...shaft through a belt.  Electromagnetic clutches have been used on diesel locomotives, e.g. by Hohenzollern Locomotive Works. "Introduction" – Multiple disk clutches are used to deliver extremely high **torque** in a relatively small space. These clutches can be used dry or wet (oil bath). Running the clutches in an oil bath also greatly increases the heat dissipation capability, which makes them ideally sui...
193. ...tion capability, which makes them ideally suited for multiple speed gear boxes and machine tool applications. "How it works " – Multiple disk clutches operate via an electrical actuation but transmit **torque** mechanically. When current is applied through the clutch coil, the coil becomes an electromagnet and produces magnetic lines of flux. These lines of flux are transferred through the small air gap bet...
194. ...e clutch becomes magnetized and sets up a magnetic loop, which attracts both the armature and friction disks. The attraction of the armature compresses (squeezes) the friction disks, transferring the **torque** from the in inner driver to the out disks. The output disks are connected to a gear, coupling, or pulley via drive cup. The clutch slips until the input and output RPMs are matched. This happens rela...
195. ...ther, so there is no contact when the clutch is not engaged, creating a minimal amount of drag. "Introduction" – Of all the electromagnetic clutches, the tooth clutches provide the greatest amount of **torque** in the smallest overall size. Because torque is transmitted without any slippage, clutches are ideal for multi stage machines where timing is critical such as multi-stage printing presses. Sometimes,...
196. ...is not engaged, creating a minimal amount of drag. "Introduction" – Of all the electromagnetic clutches, the tooth clutches provide the greatest amount of torque in the smallest overall size. Because **torque** is transmitted without any slippage, clutches are ideal for multi stage machines where timing is critical such as multi-stage printing presses. Sometimes, exact timing needs to be kept, so tooth clut...
197. ...nt speeds over 50 rpm otherwise damage to the clutch teeth would occur when trying to engage the clutch. "How it works" – Electromagnetic tooth clutches operate via an electric actuation but transmit **torque** mechanically. When current flows through the clutch coil, the coil becomes an electromagnet and produces magnetic lines of flux. This flux is then transferred through the small gap between the field...
198. ...and providing complete disengagement from input to output. "Introduction" – Magnetic particle clutches are unique in their design, from other electro-mechanical clutches because of the wide operating **torque** range available. Like a standard, single face clutch, torque to voltage is almost linear. However, in a magnetic particle clutch torque can be controlled very accurately. This makes these units ideal...
199. ...ntroduction" – Magnetic particle clutches are unique in their design, from other electro-mechanical clutches because of the wide operating torque range available. Like a standard, single face clutch, **torque** to voltage is almost linear. However, in a magnetic particle clutch torque can be controlled very accurately. This makes these units ideally suited for tension control applications, such as wire wind...
200. ...other electro-mechanical clutches because of the wide operating torque range available. Like a standard, single face clutch, torque to voltage is almost linear. However, in a magnetic particle clutch **torque** can be controlled very accurately. This makes these units ideally suited for tension control applications, such as wire winding, foil, film, and tape tension control. Because of their fast response,...
201. ...field builds, strengthening the binding of the particles. The clutch rotor passes through the bound particles, causing drag between the input and the output during rotation. Depending upon the output **torque** requirement, the output and input may lock at 100% transfer. When current is removed from the clutch, the input is almost free to turn with the shaft. Because the magnetic particles remain in the cav...
202. ...t is almost free to turn with the shaft. Because the magnetic particles remain in the cavity, all magnetic particle clutches have some minimum drag. Electrical hysteresis units have an extremely high **torque** range. Since these units can be controlled remotely, they are ideal for testing applications where varying torque is required. Since drag torque is minimal, these units offer the widest available tor...
203. ...e clutches have some minimum drag. Electrical hysteresis units have an extremely high torque range. Since these units can be controlled remotely, they are ideal for testing applications where varying **torque** is required. Since drag torque is minimal, these units offer the widest available torque range of any electromagnetic product. Most applications involving powered hysteresis units are in test stand r...
204. ...ag. Electrical hysteresis units have an extremely high torque range. Since these units can be controlled remotely, they are ideal for testing applications where varying torque is required. Since drag **torque** is minimal, these units offer the widest available torque range of any electromagnetic product. Most applications involving powered hysteresis units are in test stand requirements. Since all torque i...
205. ...que range. Since these units can be controlled remotely, they are ideal for testing applications where varying torque is required. Since drag torque is minimal, these units offer the widest available **torque** range of any electromagnetic product. Most applications involving powered hysteresis units are in test stand requirements. Since all torque is transmitted magnetically, there is no contact, so no wea...
206. ...g torque is minimal, these units offer the widest available torque range of any electromagnetic product. Most applications involving powered hysteresis units are in test stand requirements. Since all **torque** is transmitted magnetically, there is no contact, so no wear occurs to any of the torque transfer components providing for extremely long life. When the current is applied, it creates magnetic flux....
207. ...gnetic product. Most applications involving powered hysteresis units are in test stand requirements. Since all torque is transmitted magnetically, there is no contact, so no wear occurs to any of the **torque** transfer components providing for extremely long life. When the current is applied, it creates magnetic flux. This passes into the rotor portion of the field. The hysteresis disk physically passes th...
208. ...means, as the rotor rotates, magnetic drag between the rotor and the hysteresis disk takes place causing rotation. In a sense, the hysteresis disk is pulled after the rotor. Depending upon the output **torque** required, this pull eventually can match the input speed, giving a 100% lockup. When current is removed from the clutch, the armature is free to turn and no relative force is transmitted between eith...
209. ...can match the input speed, giving a 100% lockup. When current is removed from the clutch, the armature is free to turn and no relative force is transmitted between either member. Therefore, the only **torque** seen between the input and the output is bearing drag. W. Pelczewski: SPRZEGLA ELEKTROMAGNETYCZNE (Polish original edition); German Edition: Elektromagnetische Kupplung, Kapitel: Elektromagnetische I...
210. ...n the relation would be formula_8. A change in magnetization, formula_9 implies a proportional change in the angular momentum, formula_10 of the electrons involved. Provided that there is no external **torque** along the magnetization axis applied to the body in the process, the rest of the body (practically all its mass) should acquire an angular momentum formula_11 due to the law of conservation of angula...
211. ...gular momentum causes a change in the rotational speed of the cylinder, monitored using optical devices. The external field formula_12 interacting with a magnetic dipole formula_13 cannot produce any **torque** (formula_14) along the field direction. In these experiments the magnetization happens along the direction of the field produced by the magnetizing coil, therefore, in absence of other external field...
212. ...roscopic circular motions of electric charges, the authors proposed a design to test [Hendrik] Lorentz's theory that the rotating particles are electrons. The aim of the experiment was to measure the **torque** generated by a reversal of the magnetisation of an iron cylinder. Calaprice further writes: 53. "Experimental Proof of the Existence of Ampère's Molecular Currents" (with Wander J. de Haas) (in Engli...
213. ...ions. Thus, induced dipoles are created. Fig. 3 shows a beam-like structure/element in an electric field. The interaction between the molecular dipole moment and the electric field results an induced **torque** (T). Then this torque tends to align the beam toward the direction of field. In case of a cantilevered CNT (Fig. 1), it would be bent to the field direction. Meanwhile, the electrically induced torqu...
214. ...poles are created. Fig. 3 shows a beam-like structure/element in an electric field. The interaction between the molecular dipole moment and the electric field results an induced torque (T). Then this **torque** tends to align the beam toward the direction of field. In case of a cantilevered CNT (Fig. 1), it would be bent to the field direction. Meanwhile, the electrically induced torque and stiffness of the...
215. ...orque (T). Then this torque tends to align the beam toward the direction of field. In case of a cantilevered CNT (Fig. 1), it would be bent to the field direction. Meanwhile, the electrically induced **torque** and stiffness of the CNT compete against each other. This deformation has been observed in experiments. This property is an important characteristic for CNTs promising nanoelectromechanical systems a...
216. ...rent brakes use electromagnetic force, but electromagnetic brakes ultimately depend on friction whereas eddy current brakes use magnetic force directly. In locomotives, a mechanical linkage transmits **torque** to an electromagnetic braking component. Trams and trains use electromagnetic track brakes where the braking element is pressed by magnetic force to the rail. They are distinguished from "mechanical"...
217. ...for Z axis ball screws and servo motor brakes. Brakes are available in multiple voltages and can have either standard backlash or zero backlash hubs. Multiple disks can also be used to increase brake **torque**, without increasing brake diameter. There are 2 main types of holding brakes. The first is spring applied brakes. The second is permanent magnet brakes. Spring type - When no electricity is applied t...
218. ...is applied to them. They are typically required to hold or to stop alone in the event of a loss of power or when power is not available in a machine circuit. Permanent magnet brakes have a very high **torque** for their size, but also require a constant current control to offset the permanent magnetic field. Spring applied brakes do not require a constant current control, they can use a simple rectifier, b...
219. ...anent magnetic field. Spring applied brakes do not require a constant current control, they can use a simple rectifier, but are larger in diameter or would need stacked friction disks to increase the **torque**. Magnetic particle brakes are unique in their design from other electro-mechanical brakes because of the wide operating torque range available. Like an electro-mechanical brake, torque to voltage is...
220. ...larger in diameter or would need stacked friction disks to increase the torque. Magnetic particle brakes are unique in their design from other electro-mechanical brakes because of the wide operating **torque** range available. Like an electro-mechanical brake, torque to voltage is almost linear; however, in a magnetic particle brake, torque can be controlled very accurately (within the operating RPM range...
221. ...o increase the torque. Magnetic particle brakes are unique in their design from other electro-mechanical brakes because of the wide operating torque range available. Like an electro-mechanical brake, **torque** to voltage is almost linear; however, in a magnetic particle brake, torque can be controlled very accurately (within the operating RPM range of the unit). This makes these units ideally suited for te...
222. ...from other electro-mechanical brakes because of the wide operating torque range available. Like an electro-mechanical brake, torque to voltage is almost linear; however, in a magnetic particle brake, **torque** can be controlled very accurately (within the operating RPM range of the unit). This makes these units ideally suited for tension control applications, such as wire winding, foil, film, and tape tens...
223. ...the machine. As the particles start to bind together, a resistant force is created on the rotor, slowing, and eventually stopping the output shaft. Electrical hysteresis units have an extremely wide **torque** range. Since these units can be controlled remotely, they are ideal for test stand applications where varying torque is required. Since drag torque is minimal, these units offer the widest available...
224. ...ally stopping the output shaft. Electrical hysteresis units have an extremely wide torque range. Since these units can be controlled remotely, they are ideal for test stand applications where varying **torque** is required. Since drag torque is minimal, these units offer the widest available torque range of any of the hysteresis products. Most applications involving powered hysteresis units are in test stan...
225. ...Electrical hysteresis units have an extremely wide torque range. Since these units can be controlled remotely, they are ideal for test stand applications where varying torque is required. Since drag **torque** is minimal, these units offer the widest available torque range of any of the hysteresis products. Most applications involving powered hysteresis units are in test stand requirements. When electricit...
226. ...range. Since these units can be controlled remotely, they are ideal for test stand applications where varying torque is required. Since drag torque is minimal, these units offer the widest available **torque** range of any of the hysteresis products. Most applications involving powered hysteresis units are in test stand requirements. When electricity is applied to the field, it creates an internal magnetic...
227. ...eventual stoppage of the output shaft. When electricity is removed from the brake, the hysteresis disk is free to turn, and no relative force is transmitted between either member. Therefore, the only **torque** seen between the input and the output is bearing drag. Multiple disk brakes are used to deliver extremely high torque within a small space. These brakes can be used either wet or dry, which makes the...
228. ..., and no relative force is transmitted between either member. Therefore, the only torque seen between the input and the output is bearing drag. Multiple disk brakes are used to deliver extremely high **torque** within a small space. These brakes can be used either wet or dry, which makes them ideal to run in multi-speed gear box applications, machine tool applications, or in off-road equipment. Electro-mech...
229. ...which makes them ideal to run in multi-speed gear box applications, machine tool applications, or in off-road equipment. Electro-mechanical disk brakes operate via electrical actuation, but transmit **torque** mechanically. When electricity is applied to the coil of an electromagnet, the magnetic flux attracts the armature to the face of the brake. As it does so, it squeezes the inner and outer friction di...
230. ...squeezes the inner and outer friction disks together. The hub is normally mounted on the shaft that is rotating. The brake housing is mounted solidly to the machine frame. As the disks are squeezed, **torque** is transmitted from the hub into the machine frame, stopping and holding the shaft. When electricity is removed from the brake, the armature is free to turn with the shaft. Springs keep the friction...
231. ...e field lines. As the star rotates, the magnetosphere rotates with it, dragging along the charged particles. As stars emit matter with a stellar wind from the photosphere, the magnetosphere creates a **torque** on the ejected matter. This results in a transfer of angular momentum from the star to the surrounding space, causing a slowing of the stellar rotation rate. Rapidly rotating stars have a higher mass...
232. ...er conversion of heat to light. Generally speaking, no damage will occur but functionality will be impaired. Commutated electric motors, such as universal motors, will run at reduced speed or reduced **torque**. Depending on the motor design, no harm may occur. However, under load, the motor may draw more current due to the reduced back-EMF developed at the lower armature speed. Unless the motor has ample c...
233. ...bit a little bit closer to the center than m, it will have a slightly higher angular velocity. The connecting spring will pull back on m, and drag m forward. This means that m experiences a retarding **torque**, loses angular momentum, and must fall inward to an orbit of smaller radius, corresponding to a smaller angular momentum. m, on the other hand, experiences a positive torque, acquires more angular mo...
234. ...m experiences a retarding torque, loses angular momentum, and must fall inward to an orbit of smaller radius, corresponding to a smaller angular momentum. m, on the other hand, experiences a positive **torque**, acquires more angular momentum, and moves outward to a higher orbit. The spring stretches yet more, the torques become yet larger, and the motion is unstable! Because magnetic forces act like a spri...
235. ...ible material (typically stainless steel) to mechanically link an otherwise free-wheeling disc attached to one shaft, to a rotor attached to the other shaft. This clutch is a form of a powder clutch. **Torque** is transmitted mechanically, through a metal powder filling. In the magnetically controlled version, an applied magnetic field is used to lock the particles in place. Unlike a pure magnetic coupling...
236. ...der filling. In the magnetically controlled version, an applied magnetic field is used to lock the particles in place. Unlike a pure magnetic coupling though, this field takes no part in transmitting **torque** magnetically. When a magnetic field is applied by a coil to the powder, it forms chains connecting the disc and rotor. The strength of the chains depends on the strength of the magnetic field. If the...
237. ...o be fed into the rollers at the right speed while also maintaining tension on the material. Magnetic particle clutches are also used in cycle controls. They allow cycles to have a constant amount of **torque** while the cycle is being completed. A great example of this is a machine that puts caps on bottles. Magnetic particle clutches can also be found in gym equipment. They are used in treadmills to contr...
238. ...of two basic parts, an outside stationary stator having coils supplied with alternating current to produce a rotating magnetic field, and an inside rotor attached to the output shaft that is given a **torque** by the rotating field. The two main types of AC motors are distinguished by the type of rotor used. The brushed DC electric motor generates torque directly from DC power supplied to the motor by usin...
239. ...e rotor attached to the output shaft that is given a torque by the rotating field. The two main types of AC motors are distinguished by the type of rotor used. The brushed DC electric motor generates **torque** directly from DC power supplied to the motor by using internal commutation, stationary permanent magnets, and rotating electrical magnets. Brushes and springs carry the electric current from the comm...
240. ...ferromagnetic material, which gives the coil much lower magnetic reluctance. Still the magnetic field created by modern PMs (Neodymium magnets) is stronger, which means that PM machines have a better **torque**/volume and torque/weight ratio than machines with rotor coils under continuous operation. This may change with introduction of superconductors in rotor. Since the permanent magnets in a PM machine al...
241. ...rial, which gives the coil much lower magnetic reluctance. Still the magnetic field created by modern PMs (Neodymium magnets) is stronger, which means that PM machines have a better torque/volume and **torque**/weight ratio than machines with rotor coils under continuous operation. This may change with introduction of superconductors in rotor. Since the permanent magnets in a PM machine already introduce co...
242. ...made of graphite or liquid metal. It is even possible to eliminate the brushes in a "brushed machine" by using a part of the rotor and stator as a transformer that transfers current without creating **torque**. Brushes must not be confused with a commutator. The difference is that the brushes only transfer electric current to a moving rotor while a commutator also provides switching of the current directio...
243. ...o set up sufficient rotor current and rotor magnetic field. Asynchronous induction machines can be made so they start and run without any means of control if connected to an AC grid, but the starting **torque** is low. A special case would be an induction machine with superconductors in the rotor. The current in the superconductors will be set up by induction, but the rotor will run at synchronous speed bec...
244. ...f" by sending a negative current in the coil. When the current is positive the magnet and the current cooperate to create a stronger magnetic field which will improve the reluctance machine's maximum **torque** without increasing the currents maximum absolute value. The armature of polyphase electric machines includes multiple windings powered by the AC currents offset one from another by equal phasor angle...
245. ...Any combination of the AC currents in the three windings can be expressed as a sum of three symmetrical currents, corresponding to positive, negative, and zero sequences. In "electrostatic machines", **torque** is created by attraction or repulsion of electric charge in rotor and stator. Electrostatic generators generate electricity by building up electric charge. Early types were friction machines, later o...
246. ...ostatic generator still used in research today. "Homopolar machines" are true DC machines where current is supplied to a spinning wheel through brushes. The wheel is inserted in a magnetic field, and **torque** is created as the current travels from the edge to the centre of the wheel through the magnetic field. For optimized or practical operation of electric machines, today's electric machine systems are...
247. ...for example, the national grid, rotate at sub-multiples of the same speed and so generate electric current at the same frequency. If the load on the system increases, the generators will require more **torque** to spin at that speed and, in a steam power station, more steam must be supplied to the turbines driving them. Thus the steam used and the fuel expended directly relate to the quantity of electrical...
248. ...practical way to model the time-domain behavior of magnetic elements. Recent developments generalizes the LLG equation to include the influence of spin-polarized currents in the form of spin-transfer **torque**. In a ferromagnet, the magnitude of the magnetization at each spacetime point is approximated by the saturation magnetization (although it can be smaller when averaged over a chunk of volume). The La...
249. ...onal term depends on the damping term. This better represents the behavior of real ferromagnets when the damping is large. In 1996 John Slonczewski expanded the model to account for the spin-transfer **torque**, i.e. the torque induced upon the magnetization by spin-polarized current flowing through the ferromagnet. This is commonly written in terms of the unit moment defined by : where formula_4 is the dim...
250. ...on the damping term. This better represents the behavior of real ferromagnets when the damping is large. In 1996 John Slonczewski expanded the model to account for the spin-transfer torque, i.e. the **torque** induced upon the magnetization by spin-polarized current flowing through the ferromagnet. This is commonly written in terms of the unit moment defined by : where formula_4 is the dimensionless dampin...
251. ...ges of either polarity. The instrument will draw negligible current from a DC source. It can also be used on AC and will draw a small current due to the capacitance of the rotor system. To reduce the **torque** required and improve the sensitivity and speed of response, a small mirror attached to the rotor may replace the pointer with a light beam deflected by it over a scale.  Q-machine A Q-machine is a de...
252. ...h materials required, these gearless turbines are sometimes preferred over gearbox generators because they "eliminate the gear-speed increaser, which is susceptible to significant accumulated fatigue **torque** loading, related reliability issues, and maintenance costs". There is also the pseudo direct drive mechanism, which has some advantages over the permanent magnet direct drive mechanism. Most horizont...
253. ...wind as each blade passes behind the supporting tower can cause damage to the turbine. Turbines used in wind farms for commercial production of electric power are usually three-bladed. These have low **torque** ripple, which contributes to good reliability. The blades are usually colored white for daytime visibility by aircraft and range in length from . The size and height of turbines increase year by year...
254. ...a major drawback. Vertical turbine designs have much lower efficiency than standard horizontal designs. The key disadvantages include the relatively low rotational speed with the consequential higher **torque** and hence higher cost of the drive train, the inherently lower power coefficient, the 360-degree rotation of the aerofoil within the wind flow during each cycle and hence the highly dynamic loading o...
255. ...he drive train, the inherently lower power coefficient, the 360-degree rotation of the aerofoil within the wind flow during each cycle and hence the highly dynamic loading on the blade, the pulsating **torque** generated by some rotor designs on the drive train, and the difficulty of modelling the wind flow accurately and hence the challenges of analysing and designing the rotor prior to fabricating a proto...
256. ...stress. Subtypes of the vertical axis design include: "Eggbeater" turbines, or Darrieus turbines, were named after the French inventor, Georges Darrieus. They have good efficiency, but produce large **torque** ripple and cyclical stress on the tower, which contributes to poor reliability. They also generally require some external power source, or an additional Savonius rotor to start turning, because the s...
257. ...and cyclical stress on the tower, which contributes to poor reliability. They also generally require some external power source, or an additional Savonius rotor to start turning, because the starting **torque** is very low. The torque ripple is reduced by using three or more blades, which results in greater solidity of the rotor. Solidity is measured by the blade area divided by the rotor area. A subtype of...
258. ...he tower, which contributes to poor reliability. They also generally require some external power source, or an additional Savonius rotor to start turning, because the starting torque is very low. The **torque** ripple is reduced by using three or more blades, which results in greater solidity of the rotor. Solidity is measured by the blade area divided by the rotor area. A subtype of Darrieus turbine with s...
259. ...Solidity is measured by the blade area divided by the rotor area. A subtype of Darrieus turbine with straight, as opposed to curved, blades. The cycloturbine variety has variable pitch to reduce the **torque** pulsation and is self-starting. The advantages of variable pitch are high starting torque; a wide, relatively flat torque curve; a higher coefficient of performance; more efficient operation in turbu...
260. ...urbine with straight, as opposed to curved, blades. The cycloturbine variety has variable pitch to reduce the torque pulsation and is self-starting. The advantages of variable pitch are high starting **torque**; a wide, relatively flat torque curve; a higher coefficient of performance; more efficient operation in turbulent winds; and a lower blade speed ratio, which lowers blade bending stresses. Straight,...
261. ...to curved, blades. The cycloturbine variety has variable pitch to reduce the torque pulsation and is self-starting. The advantages of variable pitch are high starting torque; a wide, relatively flat **torque** curve; a higher coefficient of performance; more efficient operation in turbulent winds; and a lower blade speed ratio, which lowers blade bending stresses. Straight, V, or curved blades may be used....
262. ...e high-reliability low-efficiency power turbines. They are always self-starting if there are at least three scoops. Twisted Savonius is a modified savonius, with long helical scoops to provide smooth **torque**. This is often used as a rooftop wind turbine and has even been adapted for ships. Airborne wind turbines consist of wings or a small aircraft tethered to the ground. They are useful for reaching fas...
263. ...with the main winding) disconnects the capacitor. The start capacitor is typically mounted to the side of the motor housing. These are called capacitor-start motors, and have relatively high starting **torque**. There are also capacitor-run induction motors which have a permanently connected phase-shifting capacitor in series with a second winding. The motor is much like a two-phase induction motor. Motor-s...

=== PEAK VALUE (11 occurrences) ===
1. ...cting an atomic or molecular resonance, the spectral line shape function is described as a Lorentzian distribution formula_12 where formula_13 is the full width at half maximum or FWHM bandwidth. The **peak value** of the Lorentzian line shape occurs at the line center, formula_14. A line shape function can be normalized so that its value at formula_10 is unity; in the case of a Lorentzian we obtain formula_16...
2. ...pleting a full spiral around the field lines. This interaction of the negatively charged electrons with the magnetic field radiates a pulse of electromagnetic energy. The pulse typically rises to its **peak value** in some five nanoseconds. Its magnitude typically decays by half within 200 nanoseconds. (By the IEC definition, this E1 pulse ends 1000 nanoseconds after it begins.) This process occurs simultaneous...
3. ...er used. Alternating currents are accompanied (or caused) by alternating voltages. An AC voltage "v" can be described mathematically as a function of time by the following equation: where The peak-to-**peak value** of an AC voltage is defined as the difference between its positive peak and its negative peak. Since the maximum value of formula_10 is +1 and the minimum value is −1, an AC voltage swings between fo...
4. ...ry seldom utilize the same channel on positive ground flashes which are explained later in the article. The electric current within a typical negative CG lightning discharge rises very quickly to its **peak value** in 1–10 microseconds, then decays more slowly over 50–200 microseconds. The transient nature of the current within a lightning flash results in several phenomena that need to be addressed in the effe...
5. ...h a linear inductance, the induced back- is also sinusoidal. If the current through the inductance is formula_25, from (1) above the voltage across it is formula_26 where formula_27 is the amplitude (**peak value**) of the sinusoidal current in amperes, formula_28 is the angular frequency of the alternating current, with formula_29 being its frequency in hertz, and formula_1 is the inductance. Thus the amplitud...
6. ...f the sinusoidal current in amperes, formula_28 is the angular frequency of the alternating current, with formula_29 being its frequency in hertz, and formula_1 is the inductance. Thus the amplitude (**peak value**) of the voltage across the inductance is formula_31 Inductive reactance is the opposition of an inductor to an alternating current. It is defined analogously to electrical resistance in a resistor, a...
7. ...ductance is formula_31 Inductive reactance is the opposition of an inductor to an alternating current. It is defined analogously to electrical resistance in a resistor, as the ratio of the amplitude (**peak value**) of the alternating voltage to current in the component formula_32 Reactance has units of ohms. It can be seen that inductive reactance of an inductor increases proportionally with frequency so an in...
8. ...human eye; it is "white hot". Even at a white-hot temperature of 2000 K, 99% of the energy of the radiation is still in the infrared. This is determined by Wien's displacement law. In the diagram the **peak value** for each curve moves to the left as the temperature increases. The total radiation intensity of a black body rises as the fourth power of the absolute temperature, as expressed by the Stefan–Boltzman...
9. ...at higher frequencies. Datasheets for film capacitors specify special curves for derating AC voltages at higher frequencies. If film capacitors or ceramic capacitors only have a DC specification, the **peak value** of the AC voltage applied has to be lower than the specified DC voltage. AC loads can occur in AC motor run capacitors, for voltage doubling, in snubbers, lighting ballast and for PFC for phase shift...
10. ...time period of ripple. A full explanation is given there.) We note from basic AC circuit theory that our ripple voltage should be roughly sinusoidal: capacitor impedance times ripple current peak-to-**peak value**, or Δ"V" = Δ"I" / (2ω"C") where ω = 2π"f", "f" is the ripple frequency, and "f" = 1/"T", "T" the ripple period. This gives: Δ"V" = Δ"I" "T"/2π"C"), and we compare to this value to confirm the above i...
11. ...r unit wavelength emitted at a wavelength "λ". Wien acknowledges Friedrich Paschen in his original paper as having supplied him with the same formula based on Paschen's experimental observations. The **peak value** of this curve, as determined by setting the derivative of the equation equal to zero and solving, occurs at a wavelength formula_5 and frequency formula_6 The Wien approximation was originally propos...

=== EDDY CURRENT (77 occurrences) ===
1. ...s sectional area of the individual laminations, reducing the area of the loop and thus reducing the energy losses greatly. The laminations are made of low-conductivity silicon steel to further reduce **eddy current** losses. For higher frequencies, inductors are made with cores of ferrite. Ferrite is a ceramic ferrimagnetic material that is nonconductive, so eddy currents cannot flow within it. The formulation of...
2. ...reactance is represented by the following shunt leg impedances of the model: "R" and "X" are collectively termed the "magnetizing branch" of the model. Core losses are caused mostly by hysteresis and **eddy current** effects in the core and are proportional to the square of the core flux for operation at a given frequency. The finite permeability core requires a magnetizing current "I" to maintain mutual flux in...
3. ...tribution transformers is between about 98 and 99 percent. As transformer losses vary with load, it is often useful to tabulate no-load loss, full-load loss, half-load loss, and so on. Hysteresis and **eddy current** losses are constant at all load levels and dominate at no load, while winding loss increases as load increases. The no-load loss can be significant, so that even an idle transformer constitutes a dra...
4. ...ce the magnetizing current and confine the flux to a path which closely couples the windings. Early transformer developers soon realized that cores constructed from solid iron resulted in prohibitive **eddy current** losses, and their designs mitigated this effect with cores consisting of bundles of insulated iron wires. Later designs constructed the core by stacking layers of thin steel laminations, a principle...
5. ...hroughout the whole winding, each portion occupies different relative positions in the complete conductor. The transposition equalizes the current flowing in each strand of the conductor, and reduces **eddy current** losses in the winding itself. The stranded conductor is also more flexible than a solid conductor of similar size, aiding manufacture. The windings of signal transformers minimize leakage inductance...
6. ...ted the use of closed cores, Zipernowsky had suggested the use of parallel shunt connections, and Déri had performed the experiments; In early 1885, the three engineers also eliminated the problem of **eddy current** losses with the invention of the lamination of electromagnetic cores. Transformers today are designed on the principles discovered by the three engineers. They also popularized the word 'transformer'...
7. ...and create error in kilowatt-hour metering systems and billing revenue. The presence of current harmonics in a transformer also result in larger eddy currents in the magnetic core of the transformer. **Eddy current** losses generally increase as the square of the frequency, lowering the transformer's efficiency, dissipating additional heat, and reducing its service life. Negative-sequence harmonics (5th, 11th, 17...
8. ...was the introduction of 'voltage source, voltage intensive' (VSVI) systems' by the invention of constant voltage generators in 1885. In early 1885, the three engineers also eliminated the problem of **eddy current** losses with the invention of the lamination of electromagnetic cores. Ottó Bláthy also invented the first AC electricity meter. The AC power system was developed and adopted rapidly after 1886 due to...
9. ...will have circular currents induced within them by induction, called eddy currents. Eddy currents flow in closed loops in planes perpendicular to the magnetic field. They have useful applications in **eddy current** brakes and induction heating systems. However eddy currents induced in the metal magnetic cores of transformers and AC motors and generators are undesirable since they dissipate energy (called core l...
10. ...n in this example, so as to show the subdivision of the eddy currents. In practical use, the number of laminations or punchings ranges from 40 to 66 per inch (16 to 26 per centimetre), and brings the **eddy current** loss down to about one percent. While the plates can be separated by insulation, the voltage is so low that the natural rust/oxide coating of the plates is enough to prevent current flow across the l...
11. ...motors formed the basis of the traditional railway traction motor in electric railways. In this application, using AC power on a motor designed to run on DC would experience efficiency losses due to **eddy current** heating of their magnetic components, particularly the motor field pole-pieces that, for DC, would have used solid (un-laminated) iron. They are now rarely used. An advantage is that AC power may be...
12. ...al and error, researchers discovered many of the principles that governed all transformers, such as the proportionality between turns and output voltage and the use of a "divided" iron core to reduce **eddy current** losses. Michael Faraday discovered the principle of induction, Faraday's induction law, in 1831 and did the first experiments with induction between coils of wire. The induction coil was invented by...
13. ...d Moths" (1975); he had one of the finest British collections of specimens. He married Sheila Gooddie in 1951; they had two sons and two daughters. He died at Falmer, East Sussex on 27 November 1997. **Eddy current** In electromagnetism, an eddy current (also called Foucault's current) is a loop of electric current induced within conductors by a changing magnetic field in the conductor according to Faraday's law...
14. ...nest British collections of specimens. He married Sheila Gooddie in 1951; they had two sons and two daughters. He died at Falmer, East Sussex on 27 November 1997. Eddy current In electromagnetism, an **eddy current** (also called Foucault's current) is a loop of electric current induced within conductors by a changing magnetic field in the conductor according to Faraday's law of induction or by the relative motio...
15. ...lux, and inversely proportional to the resistivity of the material. When graphed, these circular currents within a piece of metal look vaguely like eddies or whirlpools in a liquid. By Lenz's law, an **eddy current** creates a magnetic field that opposes the change in the magnetic field that created it, and thus eddy currents react back on the source of the magnetic field. For example, a nearby conductive surface...
16. ...e, a nearby conductive surface will exert a drag force on a moving magnet that opposes its motion, due to eddy currents induced in the surface by the moving magnetic field. This effect is employed in **eddy current** brakes which are used to stop rotating power tools quickly when they are turned off. The current flowing through the resistance of the conductor also dissipates energy as heat in the material. Thus e...
17. ...minimize them. Eddy currents are also used to heat objects in induction heating furnaces and equipment, and to detect cracks and flaws in metal parts using eddy-current testing instruments. The term "**eddy current**" comes from analogous currents seen in water in fluid dynamics, causing localised areas of turbulence known as "eddies" giving rise to persistent vortices. Somewhat analogously, eddy currents can tak...
18. ...overed that the force required for the rotation of a copper disc becomes greater when it is made to rotate with its rim between the poles of a magnet, the disc at the same time becoming heated by the **eddy current** induced in the metal. The first use of eddy current for non-destructive testing occurred in 1879 when David E. Hughes used the principles to conduct metallurgical sorting tests. A magnet induces circ...
19. ...copper disc becomes greater when it is made to rotate with its rim between the poles of a magnet, the disc at the same time becoming heated by the eddy current induced in the metal. The first use of **eddy current** for non-destructive testing occurred in 1879 when David E. Hughes used the principles to conduct metallurgical sorting tests. A magnet induces circular electric currents in a metal sheet moving throu...
20. ...force (EMF) in the sheet, in accordance with Faraday's law of induction, exerting a force on the electrons in the sheet, causing a counterclockwise circular current formula_6 in the sheet. This is an **eddy current**. Similarly, the part of the sheet moving away from the edge of the magnet (the right side) experiences a decrease in magnetic flux density formula_7, inducing a second eddy current, this time in a cl...
21. ...sheet. This is an eddy current. Similarly, the part of the sheet moving away from the edge of the magnet (the right side) experiences a decrease in magnetic flux density formula_7, inducing a second **eddy current**, this time in a clockwise direction. Since the electrons have a negative charge, they move in the opposite direction to the conventional current shown by the arrows.  Another equivalent way to unders...
22. ...ter the suppression of eddy currents. The conversion of input energy to heat is not always undesirable, however, as there are some practical applications. One is in the brakes of some trains known as **eddy current** brakes. During braking, the metal wheels are exposed to a magnetic field from an electromagnet, generating eddy currents in the wheels. This eddy current is formed by the movement of the wheels. So,...
23. ...One is in the brakes of some trains known as eddy current brakes. During braking, the metal wheels are exposed to a magnetic field from an electromagnet, generating eddy currents in the wheels. This **eddy current** is formed by the movement of the wheels. So, by Lenz's law, the magnetic field formed by the eddy current will oppose its cause. Thus the wheel will face a force opposing the initial movement of the...
24. ...posed to a magnetic field from an electromagnet, generating eddy currents in the wheels. This eddy current is formed by the movement of the wheels. So, by Lenz's law, the magnetic field formed by the **eddy current** will oppose its cause. Thus the wheel will face a force opposing the initial movement of the wheel. The faster the wheels are spinning, the stronger the effect, meaning that as the train slows the br...
25. ...differential form of Faraday's law, , this gives formula_18 By definition, , where is the magnetization of the material and is the vacuum permeability. The diffusion equation therefore is formula_19 **Eddy current** brakes use the drag force created by eddy currents as a brake to slow or stop moving objects. Since there is no contact with a brake shoe or drum, there is no mechanical wear. However, an eddy curren...
26. ...ddy current brakes use the drag force created by eddy currents as a brake to slow or stop moving objects. Since there is no contact with a brake shoe or drum, there is no mechanical wear. However, an **eddy current** brake cannot provide a "holding" torque and so may be used in combination with mechanical brakes, for example, on overhead cranes. Another application is on some roller coasters, where heavy copper p...
27. ...an lift objects against gravity, though with continual power input to replace the energy dissipated by the eddy currents. An example application is separation of aluminum cans from other metals in an **eddy current** separator. Ferrous metals cling to the magnet, and aluminum (and other non-ferrous conductors) are forced away from the magnet; this can separate a waste stream into ferrous and non-ferrous scrap met...
28. ...tromagnets with electronic switching comparable to electronic speed control it is possible to generate electromagnetic fields moving in an arbitrary direction. As described in the section above about **eddy current** brakes, a non-ferromagnetic conductor surface tends to rest within this moving field. When however this field is moving, a vehicle can be levitated and propelled. This is comparable to a maglev but i...
29. ...n Petroleum Institute (API) Standard 670 and ISO 7919. A Ferraris acceleration sensor, also called a Ferraris sensor, is a contactless sensor that uses eddy currents to measure relative acceleration. **Eddy current** techniques are commonly used for the nondestructive examination (NDE) and condition monitoring of a large variety of metallic structures, including heat exchanger tubes, aircraft fuselage, and aircra...
30. ...d in circuit discussion, since it is rare that all elements of ESR are significant to a particular application. An inductor using a core to increase inductance will have losses such as hysteresis and **eddy current** in the core. At high frequencies there are also losses in the windings due to proximity and skin effects. These are in addition to wire resistance, and lead to a higher ESR. In a non-electrolytic cap...
31. ...ctrack system, magnetic bearings could replace complex control systems by using Halbach arrays and simple closed loop coils. These systems gain in simplicity, but are less advantageous with regard to **eddy current** losses. For rotating systems it is possible to use homopolar magnet designs instead of multipole Halbach structures, which reduce losses considerably. An example that has bypassed the Earnshaw's theo...
32. ...eddy currents in the disc and the effect is such that a force is exerted on the disc in proportion to the product of the instantaneous current and instantaneous voltage. A permanent magnet acts as an **eddy current** brake, exerting an opposing force proportional to the speed of rotation of the disc. The equilibrium between these two opposing forces results in the disc rotating at a speed proportional to the powe...
33. ...bove a coil of copper wire with a low radio frequency alternating electric current passing through it. The resulting oscillating magnetic field induces an electrical current in the vessel. This large **eddy current** flowing through the resistance of a thin layer of metal in the base of the vessel results in resistive heating. For nearly all models of induction cooktops, a cooking vessel must be made of, or conta...
34. ...power losses. Therefore, solid iron cores are not used in transformers or inductors, they are replaced by laminated or powdered iron cores, or nonconductive cores like ferrite. In order to reduce the **eddy current** losses mentioned above, most low frequency power transformers and inductors use laminated cores, made of stacks of thin sheets of silicon steel: Laminated magnetic cores are made of stacks of thin ir...
35. ...the lines of flux. The layers of insulation serve as a barrier to eddy currents, so eddy currents can only flow in narrow loops within the thickness of each single lamination. Since the current in an **eddy current** loop is proportional to the area of the loop, this prevents most of the current from flowing, reducing eddy currents to a very small level. Since power dissipated is proportional to the square of the...
36. ...roportional to the square of the current, breaking a large core into narrow laminations reduces the power losses drastically. From this, it can be seen that the thinner the laminations, the lower the **eddy current** losses. A small addition of silicon to iron (around 3%) results in a dramatic increase of the resistivity of the metal, up to four times higher. The higher resistivity reduces the eddy currents, so s...
37. .... These are being used to create high-efficiency transformers. The materials can be highly responsive to magnetic fields for low hysteresis losses, and they can also have lower conductivity to reduce **eddy current** losses. Power utilities are currently making widespread use of these transformers for new installations. High mechanical strength and corrosion resistance are also common properties of metallic glass...
38. ...equencies, as the eddy currents are mostly restricted to within the individual grains. Coating of the particles with an insulating layer, or their separation with a thin layer of a binder, lowers the **eddy current** losses. Presence of larger particles can degrade high-frequency performance. Permeability is influenced by the spacing between the grains, which form distributed air gap; the less gap, the higher per...
39. ...but this can be compensated for by making the core bigger; it is advantageous where cost is more important than mass and size. Saturation flux of about 1 to 1.5 tesla. Relatively high hysteresis and **eddy current** loss, operation limited to lower frequencies (approx. below 100 kHz). Used in energy storage inductors, DC output chokes, differential mode chokes, triac regulator chokes, chokes for power factor cor...
40. ...the currents is dissipated as heat in the resistance of the core material. The power loss is proportional to the area of the loops and inversely proportional to the resistivity of the core material. **Eddy current** losses can be reduced by making the core out of thin laminations which have an insulating coating, or alternatively, making the core of a magnetic material with high electrical resistance, like ferri...
41. ...effects near moving domain walls. An equation known as Legg's equation models the magnetic material core loss at low flux densities. The equation has three loss components: hysteresis, residual, and **eddy current**, and it is given by where Losses in magnetic materials can be characterized by the Steinmetz coefficients, which however do not take into account temperature variability. Material manufacturers provi...
42. ...ectural glass, wafers, flat panel displays, polymer foils, OLED, ceramics, etc. The contacting four-point probe is often applied for single-point measurements of hard or coarse materials. Non-contact **eddy current** systems are applied for sensitive or encapsulated coatings, for inline measurements and for high-resolution mapping. Barnett effect The Barnett effect is the magnetization of an uncharged body when s...
43. ...t the anode becomes more favourable. In addition, when compared to a carbon anode, more energy is required to achieve the same reduced phase at the cathode. Inert anodes suffer from stability issues. **Eddy current** brake An eddy current brake, also known as an induction brake, Faraday brake, electric brake or electric retarder, is a device used to slow or stop a moving object by generating eddy currents and thu...
44. ...re favourable. In addition, when compared to a carbon anode, more energy is required to achieve the same reduced phase at the cathode. Inert anodes suffer from stability issues. Eddy current brake An **eddy current** brake, also known as an induction brake, Faraday brake, electric brake or electric retarder, is a device used to slow or stop a moving object by generating eddy currents and thus dissipating its kine...
45. ...s dissipating its kinetic energy as heat. Unlike friction brakes, where the drag force that stops the moving object is provided by friction between two surfaces pressed together, the drag force in an **eddy current** brake is an electromagnetic force between a magnet and a nearby conductive object in relative motion, due to eddy currents induced in the conductor through electromagnetic induction. A conductive sur...
46. ...oses its motion, proportional to its velocity. The kinetic energy of the moving object is dissipated as heat generated by the current flowing through the electrical resistance of the conductor. In an **eddy current** brake the magnetic field may be created by a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. With an electromagnet system, the braking force can be turned on and off (or varied) by varying the electric current...
47. ...n such designs to ensure that components involved are not stressed beyond operational limits during such deceleration, which may greatly exceed design forces of acceleration during normal operation.  **Eddy current** brakes are used to slow high-speed trains and roller coasters, as a complement for friction brakes in semi-trailer trucks to help prevent brake wear and overheating, to stop powered tools quickly whe...
48. ...nt for friction brakes in semi-trailer trucks to help prevent brake wear and overheating, to stop powered tools quickly when power is turned off, and in electric meters used by electric utilities. An **eddy current** brake consists of a conductive piece of metal, either a straight bar or a disk, which moves through the magnetic field of a magnet, either a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. When it moves past t...
49. ...eld through the sheet is increasing as it gets nearer the magnet. From Faraday's law of induction, this field induces a counterclockwise flow of electric current "(I, red)", in the sheet. This is the **eddy current**. In contrast, at the trailing edge of the magnet "(right side)" the magnetic field through the sheet is decreasing, inducing a clockwise eddy current in the sheet. Another way to understand the actio...
50. ...ric current "(I, red)", in the sheet. This is the eddy current. In contrast, at the trailing edge of the magnet "(right side)" the magnetic field through the sheet is decreasing, inducing a clockwise **eddy current** in the sheet. Another way to understand the action is to see that the free charge carriers (electrons) in the metal sheet are moving to the right, so the magnetic field exerts a sideways force on the...
51. ...energy which is consumed overcoming this drag force is dissipated as heat by the currents flowing through the resistance of the metal, so the metal gets warm under the magnet. The braking force of an **eddy current** brake is exactly proportional to the velocity "V", so it acts similar to viscous friction in a liquid. The braking force decreases as the velocity decreases. When the conductive sheet is stationary,...
52. ...eet is stationary, the magnetic field through each part of it is constant, not changing with time, so no eddy currents are induced, and there is no force between the magnet and the conductor. Thus an **eddy current** brake has no holding force. Eddy current brakes come in two geometries:  The physical working principle is the same for both. Disk electromagnetic brakes are used on vehicles such as trains, and powe...
53. ...ough each part of it is constant, not changing with time, so no eddy currents are induced, and there is no force between the magnet and the conductor. Thus an eddy current brake has no holding force. **Eddy current** brakes come in two geometries:  The physical working principle is the same for both. Disk electromagnetic brakes are used on vehicles such as trains, and power tools such as circular saws, to stop th...
54. ...principle is the same for both. Disk electromagnetic brakes are used on vehicles such as trains, and power tools such as circular saws, to stop the blade quickly when the power is turned off. A disk **eddy current** brake consists of a conductive non-ferromagnetic metal disc (rotor) attached to the axle of the vehicle's wheel, with an electromagnet located with its poles on each side of the disk, so the magnetic...
55. ...h the disk's resistance, so like conventional friction disk brakes, the disk becomes hot. Unlike in the linear brake below, the metal of the disk passes repeatedly through the magnetic field, so disk **eddy current** brakes get hotter than linear eddy current brakes. Japanese Shinkansen trains had employed circular eddy current brake system on trailer cars since 100 Series Shinkansen. The N700 Series Shinkansen a...
56. ...al friction disk brakes, the disk becomes hot. Unlike in the linear brake below, the metal of the disk passes repeatedly through the magnetic field, so disk eddy current brakes get hotter than linear **eddy current** brakes. Japanese Shinkansen trains had employed circular eddy current brake system on trailer cars since 100 Series Shinkansen. The N700 Series Shinkansen abandoned eddy current brakes in favour of r...
57. ...ake below, the metal of the disk passes repeatedly through the magnetic field, so disk eddy current brakes get hotter than linear eddy current brakes. Japanese Shinkansen trains had employed circular **eddy current** brake system on trailer cars since 100 Series Shinkansen. The N700 Series Shinkansen abandoned eddy current brakes in favour of regenerative brakes, since 14 of the 16 cars in the trainset used elect...
58. ...et hotter than linear eddy current brakes. Japanese Shinkansen trains had employed circular eddy current brake system on trailer cars since 100 Series Shinkansen. The N700 Series Shinkansen abandoned **eddy current** brakes in favour of regenerative brakes, since 14 of the 16 cars in the trainset used electric motors. In regenerative brakes, the motor that drives the wheel is used as a generator to produce electr...
59. ...her a high-volume air-ventilation or water-to-air heat exchanger adds additional cost and complexity. In contrast, high-end AC-motor dynamometers cleanly return the engine's power to the grid. Linear **eddy current** brakes are used on some rail vehicles, such as trains. They are used on roller coasters, to stop cars smoothly at the end of the ride. The linear eddy current brake consists of a magnetic yoke with e...
60. ...n the engine's power to the grid. Linear eddy current brakes are used on some rail vehicles, such as trains. They are used on roller coasters, to stop cars smoothly at the end of the ride. The linear **eddy current** brake consists of a magnetic yoke with electrical coils positioned along the rail, which are being magnetized alternating as south and north magnetic poles. This magnet does not touch the rail, but i...
61. ...rail, which are being magnetized alternating as south and north magnetic poles. This magnet does not touch the rail, but is held at a constant small distance from the rail of approximately 7 mm (the **eddy current** brake should not be confused with another device, the magnetic brake, which exerts its braking force by friction of a brake shoe with the rail).(Unlike mechanical brakes, which are based on friction...
62. ...confused with another device, the magnetic brake, which exerts its braking force by friction of a brake shoe with the rail).(Unlike mechanical brakes, which are based on friction and kinetic energy, **eddy current** brakes rely on electromagnetism to stop objects from moving.) It works the same as a disk eddy current brake, by inducing closed loops of eddy current in the conductive rail, which generate counter m...
63. ...e shoe with the rail).(Unlike mechanical brakes, which are based on friction and kinetic energy, eddy current brakes rely on electromagnetism to stop objects from moving.) It works the same as a disk **eddy current** brake, by inducing closed loops of eddy current in the conductive rail, which generate counter magnetic fields which oppose the motion of the train. The kinetic energy of the moving vehicle is conver...
64. ...which are based on friction and kinetic energy, eddy current brakes rely on electromagnetism to stop objects from moving.) It works the same as a disk eddy current brake, by inducing closed loops of **eddy current** in the conductive rail, which generate counter magnetic fields which oppose the motion of the train. The kinetic energy of the moving vehicle is converted to heat by the eddy current flowing through...
65. ...closed loops of eddy current in the conductive rail, which generate counter magnetic fields which oppose the motion of the train. The kinetic energy of the moving vehicle is converted to heat by the **eddy current** flowing through the electrical resistance of the rail, which leads to a warming of the rail. An advantage of the linear brake is that since each section of rail passes only once through the magnetic...
66. ...each section of the disk passes repeatedly through the brake, the rail doesn't get as hot as a disk, so the linear brake can dissipate more energy and have a higher power rating than disk brakes. The **eddy current** brake does not have any mechanical contact with the rail, thus no wear, and creates neither noise nor odor. The eddy current brake is unusable at low speeds, but can be used at high speeds for emerge...
67. ...dissipate more energy and have a higher power rating than disk brakes. The eddy current brake does not have any mechanical contact with the rail, thus no wear, and creates neither noise nor odor. The **eddy current** brake is unusable at low speeds, but can be used at high speeds for emergency braking and service braking. The TSI (Technical Specifications for Interoperability) of the EU for trans-European high-sp...
68. ...ency braking and service braking. The TSI (Technical Specifications for Interoperability) of the EU for trans-European high-speed rail recommends that all newly built high-speed lines should make the **eddy current** brake possible. Modern roller coasters use this type of braking. To avoid the risk posed by power outages, they utilize permanent magnets instead of electromagnets, thus not requiring a power supply....
69. ...hors explained In typical experiments, students measure the slower time of fall of the magnet through a copper tube compared with a cardboard tube, and may use an oscilloscope to observe the pulse of **eddy current** induced in a loop of wire wound around the pipe when the magnet falls through. Derating In electronics, derating is the operation of a device at less than its rated maximum capability to prolong its...
70. ...d, once the payload reaches the highest part of its trajectory then an on-board rocket engine ("kick motor") or other means is needed to circularize the trajectory to the appropriate Earth orbit. The **eddy current** technique is compact, lightweight and powerful, but inefficient. With each launch the rotor temperature increases by 80 kelvins due to power dissipation. If launches are spaced too close together, th...
71. ...can be reduced while maximizing furnace loading. Ferrite cores are used in electronic inductors, transformers, and electromagnets where the high electrical resistance of the ferrite leads to very low **eddy current** losses. Ferrites are also found as a lump in a computer cable, called a ferrite bead, which helps to prevent high frequency electrical noise (radio frequency interference) from exiting or entering th...
72. ...s, and the heat equation. The dimensionless magnetic Reynolds number, formula_33, is also used in cases where there is no physical fluid involved. For formula_37 the skin effect is negligible and the **eddy current** braking torque follows the theoretical curve of an induction motor. For formula_38 the skin effect dominates and the braking torque decreases much slower with increasing speed than predicted by the i...
73. ...e mid-20th century, especially in trains and trams, the variety of applications and brake designs has increased dramatically, but the basic operation remains the same. Both electromagnetic brakes and **eddy current** brakes use electromagnetic force, but electromagnetic brakes ultimately depend on friction whereas eddy current brakes use magnetic force directly. In locomotives, a mechanical linkage transmits torq...
74. ...dramatically, but the basic operation remains the same. Both electromagnetic brakes and eddy current brakes use electromagnetic force, but electromagnetic brakes ultimately depend on friction whereas **eddy current** brakes use magnetic force directly. In locomotives, a mechanical linkage transmits torque to an electromagnetic braking component. Trams and trains use electromagnetic track brakes where the braking...
75. ...example of a brushless, synchronous DC motor is a stepper motor which can divide a full rotation into a large number of steps. Other electromagnetic machines include the Amplidyne, Synchro, Metadyne, **Eddy current** clutch, Eddy current brake, Eddy current dynamometer, Hysteresis dynamometer, Rotary converter, and Ward Leonard set. A rotary converter is a combination of machines that act as a mechanical rectifie...
76. ...s, synchronous DC motor is a stepper motor which can divide a full rotation into a large number of steps. Other electromagnetic machines include the Amplidyne, Synchro, Metadyne, Eddy current clutch, **Eddy current** brake, Eddy current dynamometer, Hysteresis dynamometer, Rotary converter, and Ward Leonard set. A rotary converter is a combination of machines that act as a mechanical rectifier, inverter or freque...
77. ...tor is a stepper motor which can divide a full rotation into a large number of steps. Other electromagnetic machines include the Amplidyne, Synchro, Metadyne, Eddy current clutch, Eddy current brake, **Eddy current** dynamometer, Hysteresis dynamometer, Rotary converter, and Ward Leonard set. A rotary converter is a combination of machines that act as a mechanical rectifier, inverter or frequency converter. The W...

=== MEASUREMENT (820 occurrences) ===
1. ...s (as obtained from flux measurements) to daily, monthly, or annual averages. Unless given for a specific wavelength (spectral albedo), albedo refers to the entire spectrum of solar radiation. Due to **measurement** constraints, it is often given for the spectrum in which most solar energy reaches the surface (between 0.3 and 3 μm). This spectrum includes visible light (0.4–0.7 μm), which explains why surfaces w...
2. ...windblown dust containing soot, sometimes reduces albedo on glaciers and ice sheets. The dynamical nature of albedo in response to positive feedback, together with the effects of small errors in the **measurement** of albedo, can lead to large errors in energy estimates. Because of this, in order to reduce the error of energy estimates, it is important to measure the albedo of snow-covered areas through remote...
3. ...ibutions to the creation of modern electrical science, an international convention, signed at the 1881 International Exposition of Electricity, established the ampere as a standard unit of electrical **measurement** for electric current. The ampere was originally defined as one tenth of the unit of electric current in the centimetre–gram–second system of units. That unit, now known as the abampere, was defined a...
4. ...m" named Ampère "the Newton of electricity". An international convention, signed at the 1881 International Exposition of Electricity, established the ampere as one of the standard units of electrical **measurement**, in recognition of his contribution to the creation of modern electrical science and along with the coulomb, volt, ohm, watt and farad, which are named, respectively, after Ampère's contemporaries Ch...
5. ...Recently, highly precise astrometry of extragalactic objects using both Very Long Baseline Interferometry and the "Gaia" space observatory have successfully measured this small effect. The first VLBI **measurement** of the apparent motion, over a period of 20 years, of 555 extragalactic objects towards the center of our galaxy at equatorial coordinates of α = 263° and δ = −20° indicated a secular aberration drif...
6. ...most all of the atom's mass had to be carried by the positive sphere, whatever it was made of. Thomson in this book estimated that a hydrogen atom is 1,700 times heavier than an electron (the current **measurement** is 1,837). Thomson noted that no scientist had yet found a positively charged particle smaller than a hydrogen ion. He also wrote that the positive charge of an atom is a multiple of a basic unit of...
7. ...or the layman. Ammeter An ammeter (abbreviation of "ampere meter") is an instrument used to measure the current in a circuit. Electric currents are measured in amperes (A), hence the name. For direct **measurement**, the ammeter is connected in series with the circuit in which the current is to be measured. An ammeter usually has low resistance so that it does not cause a significant voltage drop in the circuit...
8. ...meters are used where the current being measured is below the limits of sensitivity of other devices, such as multimeters. Most picoammeters use a "virtual short" technique and have several different **measurement** ranges that must be switched between to cover multiple decades of measurement. Other modern picoammeters use log compression and a "current sink" method that eliminates range switching and associated...
9. ...ivity of other devices, such as multimeters. Most picoammeters use a "virtual short" technique and have several different measurement ranges that must be switched between to cover multiple decades of **measurement**. Other modern picoammeters use log compression and a "current sink" method that eliminates range switching and associated voltage spikes. Special design and usage considerations must be observed in o...
10. ...charged capacitor). The size of the induced dipole moment is equal to the product of the strength of the external field and the dipole polarizability of "ρ". Dipole moment values can be obtained from **measurement** of the dielectric constant. Some typical gas phase values given with the unit debye are: Potassium bromide (KBr) has one of the highest dipole moments because it is an ionic compound that exists as a...
11. ...has an intrinsic angular momentum or spin of . This property is usually stated by referring to the electron as a spin-1/2 particle. For such particles the spin magnitude is , while the result of the **measurement** of a projection of the spin on any axis can only be ±. In addition to spin, the electron has an intrinsic magnetic moment along its spin axis. It is approximately equal to one Bohr magneton,=\frac{e\...
12. ...the composition and physical properties of a substance to be determined. In laboratory conditions, the interactions of individual electrons can be observed by means of particle detectors, which allow **measurement** of specific properties such as energy, spin and charge. The development of the Paul trap and Penning trap allows charged particles to be contained within a small region for long durations. This enabl...
13. ...truments such as lenses, microscopes, telescopes, and other equipment that uses the properties of electromagnetic radiation. Other prominent applications of optics include electro-optical sensors and **measurement** systems, lasers, fiber-optic communication systems, and optical disc systems (e.g. CD and DVD). Photonics builds heavily on optical technology, supplemented with modern developments such as optoelect...
14. ...irrelevant: all paths between two specified points expend the same energy, and thus a unique value for potential difference may be stated. The volt is so strongly identified as the unit of choice for **measurement** and description of electric potential difference that the term voltage sees greater everyday usage. For practical purposes, defining a common reference point to which potentials may be expressed and...
15. ...tially two levels of output. Analog circuits are still widely used for signal amplification, such as in the entertainment industry, and conditioning signals from analog sensors, such as in industrial **measurement** and control. Digital circuits are electric circuits based on discrete voltage levels. Digital circuits use Boolean algebra and are the basis of all digital computers and microprocessor devices. They...
16. ...chieve in an experimental setup since the incoming beam and the detector will obstruct each other. However, since the dependence of and on the angle of incidence for angles below 10° is very small, a **measurement** at about 5° will usually be a good approximation for normal incidence, while allowing for a separation of the incoming and reflected beam. The above equations relating powers (which could be measured...
17. ...ever, recent inventions are seen to leverage the development of graphite nanomaterials, particularly graphite nanocomposites and graphene. Gauss (unit) The gauss (symbol: , sometimes Gs) is a unit of **measurement** of magnetic induction, also known as magnetic flux density. The unit is part of the Gaussian system of units, which inherited it from the older centimetre–gram–second electromagnetic units (CGS-EMU)...
18. ...atio of the voltage to the rate of change of current. In the International System of Units (SI), the unit of inductance is the henry (H) named for 19th century American scientist Joseph Henry. In the **measurement** of magnetic circuits, it is equivalent to . Inductors have values that typically range from 1μH (10H) to 20H. Many inductors have a magnetic core made of iron or ferrite inside the coil, which serves...
19. ...traverse the diameter of Earth's orbit. However, its size was not known at that time. If Rømer had known the diameter of the Earth's orbit, he would have calculated a speed of . Another more accurate **measurement** of the speed of light was performed in Europe by Hippolyte Fizeau in 1849. Fizeau directed a beam of light at a mirror several kilometers away. A rotating cog wheel was placed in the path of the ligh...
20. ...eory of Huygens and others implied the opposite. At that time, the speed of light could not be measured accurately enough to decide which theory was correct. The first to make a sufficiently accurate **measurement** was Léon Foucault, in 1850. His result supported the wave theory, and the classical particle theory was finally abandoned (only to partly re-emerge in the twentieth century as photons in quantum theo...
21. ...building blocks in MEMS processing is the ability to deposit thin films of material with a thickness anywhere from one micrometre to about 100 micrometres. The NEMS process is the same, although the **measurement** of film deposition ranges from a few nanometres to one micrometre. There are two types of deposition processes, as follows. Physical vapor deposition ("PVD") consists of a process in which a material...
22. ...York City in January 1943. Tesla's work fell into relative obscurity following his death, until 1960, when the General Conference on Weights and Measures named the International System of Units (SI) **measurement** of magnetic flux density the tesla in his honor. There has been a resurgence in popular interest in Tesla since the 1990s. Nikola Tesla was born into an ethnic Serb family in the village of Smiljan,...
23. ...ding to the uncertainty principle, no matter how the particle is prepared, it is not possible to make a precise prediction for both of the two alternative measurements: if the outcome of the position **measurement** is made more certain, the outcome of the momentum measurement becomes less so, and vice versa. A coherent state minimizes the overall uncertainty as far as quantum mechanics allows. Quantum optics ma...
24. ...is prepared, it is not possible to make a precise prediction for both of the two alternative measurements: if the outcome of the position measurement is made more certain, the outcome of the momentum **measurement** becomes less so, and vice versa. A coherent state minimizes the overall uncertainty as far as quantum mechanics allows. Quantum optics makes use of coherent states for modes of the electromagnetic fi...
25. ...momentum eigenstate, and, in fact, not even a superposition of two momentum eigenstates, as one might be tempted to imagine from equation () above: peculiarly, it has no well-defined momentum before **measurement**! In classic physics, the particle can be detected anywhere in the box with equal probability. In quantum mechanics, however, the probability density for finding a particle at a given position is deri...
26. ...phonograph cartridges simplified player design, were cheap and accurate, and made record players cheaper to maintain and easier to build. The development of the ultrasonic transducer allowed for easy **measurement** of viscosity and elasticity in fluids and solids, resulting in huge advances in materials research. Ultrasonic time-domain reflectometers (which send an ultrasonic pulse through a material and measur...
27. ...tter. Resistors are manufactured in values from a few milliohms to about a gigaohm in IEC60063 ranges appropriate for their tolerance. Manufacturers may sort resistors into tolerance-classes based on **measurement**. Accordingly, a selection of 100 ohms resistors with a tolerance of ±10%, might not lie just around 100 ohm (but no more than 10% off) as one would expect (a bell-curve), but rather be in two groups...
28. ...% off would have been marked and sold as resistors with only ±5% tolerance or better. When designing a circuit, this may become a consideration. This process of sorting parts based on post-production **measurement** is known as "binning", and can be applied to other components than resistors (such as speed grades for CPUs). Surface mounted resistors of larger sizes (metric 1608 and above) are printed with numeri...
29. ...temperature using a "thermal model" of the motor armature system that can be set to provide more accurate motor protection. Some motor protection relays include temperature detector inputs for direct **measurement** from a thermocouple or resistance thermometer sensor embedded in the winding. A polarized relay places the armature between the poles of a permanent magnet to increase sensitivity. Polarized relays w...
30. ...is used in the most accurate available measurements of the magnetic flux quantum "Φ" = "h"/(2"e"), where "h" is the Planck constant. Coupled with the quantum Hall resistivity, this leads to a precise **measurement** of the Planck constant. Josephson was awarded the Nobel Prize for this work in 1973. In 2008, it was proposed that the same mechanism that produces superconductivity could produce a superinsulator st...
31. ...ce, currents injected in superconducting coils persisted for 28 years, 7 months, 27 days in a superconducting gravimeter in Belgium, from August 4, 1995 until March 31, 2024. In such instruments, the **measurement** is based on the monitoring of the levitation of a superconducting niobium sphere with a mass of four grams. In a normal conductor, an electric current may be visualized as a fluid of electrons moving...
32. ...y becomes rapidly negligible for bulk materials or large nanoparticles. Let us imagine that the magnetization of a single superparamagnetic nanoparticle is measured and let us define formula_5 as the **measurement** time. If formula_6, the nanoparticle magnetization will flip several times during the measurement, then the measured magnetization will average to zero. If formula_7, the magnetization will not flip...
33. ...gnetization of a single superparamagnetic nanoparticle is measured and let us define formula_5 as the measurement time. If formula_6, the nanoparticle magnetization will flip several times during the **measurement**, then the measured magnetization will average to zero. If formula_7, the magnetization will not flip during the measurement, so the measured magnetization will be what the instantaneous magnetization...
34. ...ormula_6, the nanoparticle magnetization will flip several times during the measurement, then the measured magnetization will average to zero. If formula_7, the magnetization will not flip during the **measurement**, so the measured magnetization will be what the instantaneous magnetization was at the beginning of the measurement. In the former case, the nanoparticle will appear to be in the superparamagnetic st...
35. ...tion will average to zero. If formula_7, the magnetization will not flip during the measurement, so the measured magnetization will be what the instantaneous magnetization was at the beginning of the **measurement**. In the former case, the nanoparticle will appear to be in the superparamagnetic state whereas in the latter case it will appear to be “blocked” in its initial state. The state of the nanoparticle (s...
36. ...appear to be in the superparamagnetic state whereas in the latter case it will appear to be “blocked” in its initial state. The state of the nanoparticle (superparamagnetic or blocked) depends on the **measurement** time. A transition between superparamagnetism and blocked state occurs when formula_8. In several experiments, the measurement time is kept constant but the temperature is varied, so the transition b...
37. ...state of the nanoparticle (superparamagnetic or blocked) depends on the measurement time. A transition between superparamagnetism and blocked state occurs when formula_8. In several experiments, the **measurement** time is kept constant but the temperature is varied, so the transition between superparamagnetism and blocked state is seen as a function of the temperature. The temperature for which formula_8 is ca...
38. ...nce of the magnetization when the nanoparticles are either completely blocked (formula_20) or completely superparamagnetic (formula_21). There is, however, a narrow window around formula_22 where the **measurement** time and the relaxation time have comparable magnitude. In this case, a frequency-dependence of the susceptibility can be observed. For a randomly oriented sample, the complex susceptibility is: wher...
39. ...l System of Units (SI) as "exactly" ; this relationship is used to define the metre as exactly the distance that light travels in vacuum in of a second. By using the value of , as well as an accurate **measurement** of the second, one can thus establish a standard for the metre. As a dimensional physical constant, the numerical value of is different for different unit systems. For example, in imperial units, the...
40. ...eed of light is approximately miles per second, or roughly 1 foot per nanosecond. In branches of physics in which appears often, such as in relativity, it is common to use systems of natural units of **measurement** or the geometrized unit system where . Using these units, does not appear explicitly because multiplication or division by1 does not affect the result. Its unit of light-second per second is still re...
41. ...s orbit. Historically, such measurements could be made fairly accurately, compared to how accurately the length of the reference distance is known in Earth-based units. Ole Rømer used an astronomical **measurement** to make the first quantitative estimate of the speed of light in the year 1676. When measured from Earth, the periods of moons orbiting a distant planet are shorter when the Earth is approaching the...
42. ...e exerted by the Sun in the framework of classical mechanics. The current definition uses the recommended value in metres for the previous definition of the astronomical unit, which was determined by **measurement**. This redefinition is analogous to that of the metre and likewise has the effect of fixing the speed of light to an exact value in astronomical units per second (via the exact speed of light in metre...
43. ...s per billion (), equivalent to the uncertainty in Earth-based measurements of length by interferometry. Since the metre is defined to be the length travelled by light in a certain time interval, the **measurement** of the light time in terms of the previous definition of the astronomical unit can also be interpreted as measuring the length of an AU (old definition) in metres. A method of measuring the speed of...
44. ...errors of the order of 1%) than other modern techniques, but it is sometimes used as a laboratory experiment in college physics classes. An option for deriving "c" that does not directly depend on a **measurement** of the propagation of electromagnetic waves is to use the relation between "c" and the vacuum permittivity "ε" and vacuum permeability "μ" established by Maxwell's theory: "c" = 1/("ε""μ"). The vacuu...
45. ...the polarization state. The independent variable is usually the wavelength of the light or a closely derived physical quantity, such as the corresponding wavenumber or the photon energy, in units of **measurement** such as centimeters, reciprocal centimeters, or electron volts, respectively. A spectrometer is used in spectroscopy for producing spectral lines and measuring their wavelengths and intensities. Spec...
46. ...than a relative one, then it is typically called a spectrophotometer. The majority of spectrophotometers are used in spectral regions near the visible spectrum. A spectrometer that is calibrated for **measurement** of the incident optical power is called a spectroradiometer. In general, any particular instrument will operate over a small portion of this total range because of the different techniques used to me...
47. ...cause different wavelengths were refracted different amounts due to dispersion. This image was then viewed through a tube with a scale that was transposed upon the spectral image, enabling its direct **measurement**. With the development of photographic film, the more accurate spectrograph was created. It was based on the same principle as the spectroscope, but it had a camera in place of the viewing tube. In re...
48. ...ead of relying on simple scattering, we choose an evanescent wavelength short enough to cause fluorescence (Fig.15). The high sensitivity of the illumination to the distance from the interface allows **measurement** of extremely small displacements and forces. A beam-splitter cube uses frustrated TIR to divide the power of the incoming beam between the transmitted and reflected beams. The width of the air gap (o...
49. ...ractive index) to an external medium whose index was to be measured. With this device, Wollaston measured the "refractive powers" of numerous materials, some of which were too opaque to permit direct **measurement** of an angle of refraction. Translations of his papers were published in France in 1803, and apparently came to the attention of Pierre-Simon Laplace. According to Laplace's elaboration of Newton's th...
50. ...nsors. Commercial thermocouples are inexpensive, interchangeable, are supplied with standard connectors, and can measure a wide range of temperatures. In contrast to most other methods of temperature **measurement**, thermocouples are self-powered and require no external form of excitation. The main limitation with thermocouples is accuracy; system errors of less than one degree Celsius (°C) can be difficult to...
51. ...with thermocouples is accuracy; system errors of less than one degree Celsius (°C) can be difficult to achieve. Thermocouples are widely used in science and industry. Applications include temperature **measurement** for kilns, gas turbine exhaust, diesel engines, and other industrial processes. Thermocouples are also used in homes, offices and businesses as the temperature sensors in thermostats, and also as fla...
52. ...ure at very high and low temperatures. The magnitude of the voltage depends on the types of wire being used. Generally, the voltage is in the microvolt range and care must be taken to obtain a usable **measurement**. Although very little current flows, power can be generated by a single thermocouple junction. Power generation using multiple thermocouples, as in a thermopile, is common. The standard configuration...
53. ...of voltage (formula_1) is directly proportional to the gradient in temperature (formula_2): where formula_4 is a temperature-dependent material property known as the Seebeck coefficient. The standard **measurement** configuration shown in the figure shows four temperature regions and thus four voltage contributions: The first and fourth contributions cancel out exactly, because these regions involve the same tem...
54. ...on formula_17 that have been measured and interpolated over a range of temperatures, for particular thermocouple types (see "External links" section for access to these tables). To obtain the desired **measurement** of formula_8, it is not sufficient to just measure formula_23. The temperature at the reference junctions formula_6 must also be known. Two strategies are often used here: In both cases the value for...
55. ...ue formula_26 is calculated, then the function formula_17 is searched for a matching value. The argument where this match occurs is the value of formula_8: Thermocouples ideally should be very simple **measurement** devices, with each type being characterized by a precise formula_17 curve, independent of any other details. In reality, thermocouples are affected by issues such as alloy manufacturing uncertainties...
56. ...s/misunderstandings. A common error in thermocouple construction is related to cold junction compensation. If an error is made on the estimation of formula_31, an error will appear in the temperature **measurement**. For the simplest measurements, thermocouple wires are connected to copper far away from the hot or cold point whose temperature is measured; this reference junction is then assumed to be at room tem...
57. ...e, the practical lifetime is limited by thermocouple aging. The thermoelectric coefficients of the wires in a thermocouple that is used to measure very high temperatures may change with time, and the **measurement** voltage accordingly drops. The simple relationship between the temperature difference of the junctions and the measurement voltage is only correct if each wire is homogeneous (uniform in composition)...
58. ...that is used to measure very high temperatures may change with time, and the measurement voltage accordingly drops. The simple relationship between the temperature difference of the junctions and the **measurement** voltage is only correct if each wire is homogeneous (uniform in composition). As thermocouples age in a process, their conductors can lose homogeneity due to chemical and metallurgical changes caused...
59. ...ulled back, aged sections may see exposure to increased temperature gradients from hot to cold as the aged section now passes through the cooler refractory area, contributing significant error to the **measurement**. Likewise, an aged thermocouple that is pushed deeper into the furnace might sometimes provide a more accurate reading if being pushed further into the furnace causes the temperature gradient to occu...
60. ...r dry reducing atmospheres. They do not tolerate the presence of sulfur. Type T (copper–constantan) thermocouples are suited for measurements in the −200 to 350 °C range. Often used as a differential **measurement**, since only copper wire touches the probes. Since both conductors are non-magnetic, there is no Curie point and thus no abrupt change in characteristics. Type-T thermocouples have a sensitivity of ab...
61. ...0 °C operating temperatures. Thermocouples are suitable for measuring over a large temperature range, from −270 up to 3000 °C (for a short time, in inert atmosphere). Applications include temperature **measurement** for kilns, gas turbine exhaust, diesel engines, other industrial processes and fog machines. They are less suitable for applications where smaller temperature differences need to be measured with hig...
62. ...function of temperature, the above cubic equation in formula_15 can be solved, the real root of which is given by where The error in the Steinhart–Hart equation is generally less than 0.02 °C in the **measurement** of temperature over a 200 °C range. As an example, typical values for a thermistor with a resistance of 3 kΩ at room temperature (25 °C = 298.15 K, R in Ω) are: NTC thermistors can also be characteri...
63. ...creased heating and rapid resistance increase. Like the BaTiO thermistor, this device has a highly nonlinear resistance/temperature response useful for thermal or circuit control, not for temperature **measurement**. Besides circuit elements used to limit current, self-limiting heaters can be made in the form of wires or strips, useful for heat tracing. PTC thermistors "latch" into a hot / high resistance state:...
64. ...ssipation constant increases with the rate of flow of a fluid past the thermistor. The power dissipated in a thermistor is typically maintained at a very low level to ensure insignificant temperature **measurement** error due to self-heating. However, some thermistor applications depend upon significant "self-heating" to raise the body temperature of the thermistor well above the ambient temperature, so the sens...
65. ...ll above the ambient temperature, so the sensor then detects even subtle changes in the thermal conductivity of the environment. Some of these applications include liquid-level detection, liquid-flow **measurement** and air-flow measurement. The first NTC thermistor was discovered in 1833 by Michael Faraday, who reported on the semiconducting behavior of silver sulfide. Faraday noticed that the resistance of sil...
66. ...erature, so the sensor then detects even subtle changes in the thermal conductivity of the environment. Some of these applications include liquid-level detection, liquid-flow measurement and air-flow **measurement**. The first NTC thermistor was discovered in 1833 by Michael Faraday, who reported on the semiconducting behavior of silver sulfide. Faraday noticed that the resistance of silver sulfide decreased dra...
67. ...ble photodiodes and photocathodes, which can be tailored to be sensitive to different parts of the UV spectrum. Sensitive UV photomultipliers are available. Spectrometers and radiometers are made for **measurement** of UV radiation. Silicon detectors are used across the spectrum. Vacuum UV, or VUV, wavelengths (shorter than 200 nm) are strongly absorbed by molecular oxygen in the air, though the longer wavelengt...
68. ...till shorter wavelengths of UV, damage continues to happen, but the overt effects are not as great with so little penetrating the atmosphere. The WHO-standard ultraviolet index is a widely publicized **measurement** of total strength of UV wavelengths that cause sunburn on human skin, by weighting UV exposure for action spectrum effects at a given time and location. This standard shows that most sunburn happens...
69. ...a system. Often a common reference potential such as the ground of the system is used as one of the points. In this case, voltage is often mentioned at a point without completely mentioning the other **measurement** point. A voltage can be associated with either a source of energy or the loss, dissipation, or storage of energy. The SI unit of work per unit charge is the joule per coulomb, where 1 volt = 1 joule...
70. ...re difference" between two points (potential difference or water pressure difference), the greater the flow between them (electric current or water flow). (See "electric power".) Specifying a voltage **measurement** requires explicit or implicit specification of the points across which the voltage is measured. When using a voltmeter to measure voltage, one electrical lead of the voltmeter must be connected to th...
71. ...f junctions, excited by microwave signals between 10 and 80 GHz (depending on the array design). Empirically, several experiments have shown that the method is independent of device design, material, **measurement** setup, etc., and no correction terms are required in a practical implementation. In the "water-flow analogy", sometimes used to explain electric circuits by comparing them with water-filled pipes, vo...
72. ...r fixed apparatus. Portable instruments, usually equipped to also measure current and resistance in the form of a multimeter are standard test instruments used in electrical and electronics work. Any **measurement** that can be converted to a voltage can be displayed on a meter that is suitably calibrated; for example, pressure, temperature, flow or level in a chemical process plant. General-purpose analog voltm...
73. ...on voltage references are available based on electronic circuits. In circuit diagrams, a voltmeter is represented by the letter "V" in a circle, with two emerging lines representing the two points of **measurement**. A moving coil galvanometer can be used as a voltmeter by inserting a resistor in series with the instrument. The galvanometer has a coil of fine wire suspended in a strong magnetic field. When an el...
74. ...test. For multi-range instruments, the input resistance varies as the instrument is switched to different ranges. Moving-coil instruments with a permanent-magnet field respond only to direct current. **Measurement** of AC voltage requires a rectifier in the circuit so that the coil deflects in only one direction. Some moving-coil instruments are also made with the zero position in the middle of the scale instead...
75. ...rting the voltage to a digital value and then displays the voltage in numeric form. DVMs are usually designed around a special type of analog-to-digital converter called an integrating converter. DVM **measurement** accuracy is affected by many factors, including temperature, input impedance, and DVM power supply voltage variations. Less expensive DVMs often have input resistance on the order of 10 MΩ. Precision...
76. ...he Weston cell. The first digital voltmeter was invented and produced by Andrew Kay of Non-Linear Systems (and later founder of Kaypro) in 1954. Simple AC voltmeters use a rectifier connected to a DC **measurement** circuit, which responds to the average value of the waveform. The meter can be calibrated to display the root mean square value of the waveform, assuming a fixed relation between the average value of...
77. ...lectroscope of Johann Gottlieb Friedrich von Bohnenberger. He introduced a chain or series of effective instruments, including the quadrant electrometer, which cover the entire field of electrostatic **measurement**. He invented the current balance, also known as the "Kelvin balance" or "Ampere balance" ("SiC"), for the precise specification of the ampere, the standard unit of electric current. From around 1880...
78. ...on and no aeroplane will ever be practically successful." A statement falsely attributed to Kelvin is: "There is nothing new to be discovered in physics now. All that remains is more and more precise **measurement**." This has been widely misattributed to Kelvin since the 1980s, either without citation or stating that it was made in an address to the British Association for the Advancement of Science (1900). The...
79. ...om each potential divider and subtract one from the other. The equations for this are: where is the voltage of node D relative to node B. The Wheatstone bridge illustrates the concept of a difference **measurement**, which can be extremely accurate. Variations on the Wheatstone bridge can be used to measure capacitance, inductance, impedance and other quantities, such as the amount of combustible gases in a samp...
80. ...e force on a negatively charged particle is in the opposite direction. If both the speed and the charge are reversed then the direction of the force remains the same. For that reason a magnetic field **measurement** (by itself) cannot distinguish whether there is a positive charge moving to the right or a negative charge moving to the left. (Both of these cases produce the same current.) On the other hand, a mag...
81. ...ir effects on local charged particles. For instance, electrons spiraling around a field line produce synchrotron radiation that is detectable in radio waves. The finest precision for a magnetic field **measurement** was attained by Gravity Probe B at (). The field can be visualized by a set of "magnetic field lines", that follow the direction of the field at each point. The lines can be constructed by measuring...
82. ...ormula_50 is the time at which fields are measured and formula_51 is the speed of light. The equation subtracts the time taken for light to travel from particle to the point in space from the time of **measurement** to find time of origin of the fields. The uniqueness of solution for formula_47 for given formula_53, formula_38 and formula_55 is valid for charged particles moving slower than speed of light. The s...
83. ...on approach to Alpha Centaturi as part of a study to update Project Icarus with formula_123=260 km, an initial formula_306 of 1,320 km and ISM density formula_254 kg/m, almost identical to the n(H I) **measurement** of 0.098 cm by Gry in 2014. The Freeland study predicted deceleration from 5% of light speed in approximately 19 years. The coil parameters formula_214=10 A/m, formula_309= 5 mm, formula_310=6,500 kg...
84. ...electrode with hydrogen ion in an ideal solution having is "zero potential at all temperatures" equivalently to standard enthalpy of formation of hydrogen ion is also "zero at all temperatures". The **measurement** is generally conducted using a three-electrode setup (see the drawing): In case of non-zero net current on the electrode, it is essential to minimize the ohmic IR-drop in the electrolyte, e.g., by po...
85. ...apsule, an orienting "box" or gate for aligning the needle with magnetic north, a transparent base containing map orienting lines, and a bezel (outer dial) marked in degrees or other units of angular **measurement**. The capsule is mounted in a transparent baseplate containing a "direction-of-travel" (DOT) indicator for use in taking bearings directly from a map. Other features found on modern orienteering compa...
86. ...he graduated semicircle, though the measured angle is not in direct proportion to the charge. Early inventors included William Henley (1770) and Horace-Bénédict de Saussure. Torsion is used to give a **measurement** more sensitive than repulsion of gold leaves or cork-balls. It consists of a glass cylinder with a glass tube on top. In the axes of the tube is a glass thread, the lower end of this holds a bar of g...
87. ...trometers are used in nuclear physics experiments as they are able to measure the tiny charges left in matter by the passage of ionizing radiation. The most common use for modern electrometers is the **measurement** of radiation with ionization chambers, in instruments such as geiger counters. Vibrating reed electrometers use a variable capacitor formed between a moving electrode (in the form of a vibrating reed...
88. ...by the control electrode, and thus minimizing the input current. The most modern electrometers consist of a solid state amplifier using one or more field-effect transistors, connections for external **measurement** devices, and usually a display and/or data-logging connections. The amplifier amplifies small currents so that they are more easily measured. The external connections are usually of a co-axial or tri...
89. ...ll currents so that they are more easily measured. The external connections are usually of a co-axial or tri-axial design, and allow attachment of diodes or ionization chambers for ionising radiation **measurement**. The display or data-logging connections allow the user to see the data or record it for later analysis. Electrometers designed for use with ionization chambers may include a high-voltage power suppl...
90. ...s; other very sensitive types use a miniature mirror and a beam of light to provide mechanical amplification of low-level signals. A tangent galvanometer is an early measuring instrument used for the **measurement** of electric current. It works by using a compass needle to compare a magnetic field generated by the unknown current to the magnetic field of the Earth. It gets its name from its operating principle,...
91. ...rrent as measured by the ammeter, the number of turns of the coil, and the radius of the coils. Unlike the tangent galvanometer, the "astatic galvanometer" does not use the Earth's magnetic field for **measurement**, so it does not need to be oriented with respect to the Earth's field, making it easier to use. Developed by Leopoldo Nobili in 1825, it consists of two magnetized needles parallel to each other but...
92. ...f the long time constant of its response, unlike a current-measuring galvanometer. The moving part has a large moment of inertia that gives it an oscillation period long enough to make the integrated **measurement**. It can be either of the moving coil or moving magnet type; commonly it is a mirror galvanometer. Logic analyzer A logic analyzer is an electronic instrument that captures and displays multiple logic...
93. ...ation. These problems are typically too difficult to model in simulation, or too time-consuming to simulate and often cross multiple clock domains. Field-programmable gate arrays have become a common **measurement** point for logic analyzers and are also used to debug the logic circuit. Logic Analyzers are also very useful when it comes to analyze serial protocols, like I2C, SPI or UART, as they allow to capture...
94. ...unt resistance).  Micro-ohmmeters (microhmmeter or micro ohmmeter) make measurements of low resistance. Megohmmeters (also a trademarked device Megger) measure large values of resistance. The unit of **measurement** for resistance is the ohm (Ω). The first ohmmeters were based on a type of meter movement known as a 'ratiometer'. These were similar to the galvanometer type movement encountered in later instrument...
95. ...imeter design and consequently was by far the most common form of analogue ohmmeter. This type of ohmmeter suffers from two inherent disadvantages. First, the meter needs to be zeroed by shorting the **measurement** points together and performing an adjustment for zero ohms indication prior to each measurement. This is because as the battery voltage decreases with age, the series resistance in the meter needs to...
96. ...f ohmmeter suffers from two inherent disadvantages. First, the meter needs to be zeroed by shorting the measurement points together and performing an adjustment for zero ohms indication prior to each **measurement**. This is because as the battery voltage decreases with age, the series resistance in the meter needs to be reduced to maintain the zero indication at full deflection. Second, and consequent on the fi...
97. ...r which measures the voltage drop. With this type of meter, any voltage drop due to the resistance of the first pair of leads and their contact resistances is ignored by the meter. This four terminal **measurement** technique is called Kelvin sensing, after William Thomson, Lord Kelvin, who invented the Kelvin bridge in 1861 to measure very low resistances. The Four-terminal sensing method can also be utilized t...
98. ...t that can measure multiple electrical properties. A typical multimeter can measure voltage, resistance, and current, in which case can be used as a voltmeter, ohmmeter, and ammeter. Some feature the **measurement** of additional properties such as temperature and capacitance. Analog multimeters use a microammeter with a moving pointer to display readings. Digital multimeters (DMMs) have numeric displays and are...
99. ...emporarily connect the instrument to the device or circuit under test, and offer some intrinsic safety features to protect the operator if the instrument is connected to high voltages that exceed its **measurement** capabilities. Multimeters vary in size, features, and price. They can be portable handheld devices or highly-precise bench instruments. Multimeters are used in diagnostic operations to verify the cor...
100. ...n pivots or a taut band ligament. The coil rotates in a permanent magnetic field and is restrained by fine spiral springs which also serve to carry current into the moving coil. It gives proportional **measurement** rather than just detection, and deflection is independent of the orientation of the meter. Instead of balancing a bridge, values could be directly read off the instrument's scale, which made measurem...
101. ...surement rather than just detection, and deflection is independent of the orientation of the meter. Instead of balancing a bridge, values could be directly read off the instrument's scale, which made **measurement** quick and easy. The basic moving coil meter is suitable only for direct current measurements, usually in the range of 10 μA to 100 mA. It is easily adapted to read heavier currents by using shunts (r...
102. ...ce—their voltage ranges are functionally equivalent to VTVMs. The input impedance of some poorly designed DVMs (especially some early designs) would vary over the course of a sample-and-hold internal **measurement** cycle, causing disturbances to some sensitive circuits under test. The first digital multimeter was manufactured in 1955 by Non Linear Systems. It is claimed that the first handheld digital multimete...
103. ...meters that lack internal amplifiers. For meters that do have internal amplifiers (VTVMs, FETVMs, etc.), the input impedance is fixed by the amplifier circuit. Additional scales such as decibels, and **measurement** functions such as capacitance, transistor gain, frequency, duty cycle, display hold, and continuity which sounds a buzzer when the measured resistance is small have been included on many multimeters....
104. ...meter movement coil. Such amplified multimeters are called VTVMs (vacuum tube voltmeters), TVMs (transistor volt meters), FET-VOMs, and similar names. Analog meters are intuitive where the trend of a **measurement** was more important than an exact value obtained at a particular moment. A change in angle or in a proportion is easier to interpret than a change in the value of a digital readout. For this reason, s...
105. ...age drop; this eliminates the scale compression found in analog meters, but requires a source of precise current. An autoranging digital multimeter can automatically adjust the scaling network so the **measurement** circuits use the full precision of the A/D converter. In a digital multimeter the signal under test is converted to a voltage and an amplifier with electronically controlled gain preconditions the si...
106. ...tal multimeter displays the quantity measured as a number, which eliminates parallax errors. Modern digital multimeters may have an embedded computer, which provides a wealth of convenience features. **Measurement** enhancements available include: Modern meters may be interfaced with a personal computer by IrDA links, RS-232 connections, USB, or an instrument bus such as IEEE-488. The interface allows the comput...
107. ...s to be plugged in. Clamp meters clamp around a conductor carrying a current to measure without the need to connect the meter in series with the circuit, or make metallic contact at all. Those for AC **measurement** use the transformer principle; clamp-on meters to measure small current or direct current require more exotic sensors, such as; hall effect based systems that measure the nonchanging magnetic field t...
108. ...om the circuit in which they are mounted, as otherwise stray or leakage current paths may distort measurements. In some cases, the voltage from the multimeter may turn active devices on, distorting a **measurement**, or in extreme cases even damage an element in the circuit being investigated. Most multimeters include a fuse, or two fuses, which will sometimes prevent damage to the multimeter from a current over...
109. ...measurements taking longer to complete. For example, a multimeter that has a 1 mV resolution on a 10 V scale can show changes in measurements in 1 mV increments. Absolute accuracy is the error of the **measurement** compared to a perfect measurement. Relative accuracy is the error of the measurement compared to the device used to calibrate the multimeter. Most multimeter datasheets provide relative accuracy. To...
110. ...lete. For example, a multimeter that has a 1 mV resolution on a 10 V scale can show changes in measurements in 1 mV increments. Absolute accuracy is the error of the measurement compared to a perfect **measurement**. Relative accuracy is the error of the measurement compared to the device used to calibrate the multimeter. Most multimeter datasheets provide relative accuracy. To compute the absolute accuracy from...
111. ...olution on a 10 V scale can show changes in measurements in 1 mV increments. Absolute accuracy is the error of the measurement compared to a perfect measurement. Relative accuracy is the error of the **measurement** compared to the device used to calibrate the multimeter. Most multimeter datasheets provide relative accuracy. To compute the absolute accuracy from the relative accuracy of a multimeter add the abso...
112. ...n the design and calibration of the analog portions of the multimeter. Meaningful (i.e., high-accuracy) measurements require a good understanding of the instrument specifications, good control of the **measurement** conditions, and traceability of the calibration of the instrument. However, even if its resolution exceeds the accuracy, a meter can be useful for comparing measurements. For example, a meter reading...
113. ...eter can be useful for comparing measurements. For example, a meter reading stable digits may indicate that one nominally 100 kΩ resistor is about 7 Ω greater than another, although the error of each **measurement** is 0.2% of reading plus 0.05% of full-scale value. Specifying "display counts" is another way to specify the resolution. Display counts give the largest number, or the largest number plus one (to inc...
114. ...ter. This is similar when testing a coil, except the current starts low and increases. Resistance measurements on an analog meter, in particular, can be of low precision due to the typical resistance **measurement** circuit which compresses the scale heavily at the higher resistance values. Inexpensive analog meters may have only a single resistance scale, seriously restricting the range of precise measurements....
115. ...ry grade instruments can have accuracies of a few parts per million. Accuracy figures need to be interpreted with care. The accuracy of an analog instrument usually refers to full-scale deflection; a **measurement** of 30 V on the 100 V scale of a 3% meter is subject to an error of 3 V, 10% of the reading. Digital meters usually specify accuracy as a percentage of reading plus a percentage of full-scale value, s...
116. ...ts with greater current sensitivity are available. Multimeters designed for (mains) "electrical" use instead of general electronics engineering use will typically forego the microamps current ranges. **Measurement** of low resistance requires lead resistance (measured by touching the test probes together) to be subtracted for best accuracy. This can be done with the "delta", "zero", or "null" feature of many dig...
117. ...he device under test and cleanliness of the surfaces can affect measurements of very low resistances. Some meters offer a four wire test where two probes supply the source voltage and the others take **measurement**. Using a very high impedance allows for very low voltage drop in the probes and resistance of the source probes is ignored resulting in very accurate results. The upper end of multimeter measurement...
118. ...measurement. Using a very high impedance allows for very low voltage drop in the probes and resistance of the source probes is ignored resulting in very accurate results. The upper end of multimeter **measurement** ranges varies considerably; measurements over perhaps 600 volts, 10 amperes, or 100 megohms may require a specialized test instrument. Every inline series-connected ammeter, including a multimeter in...
119. ...be the same and circuit operation should not be affected if burden voltage is not a problem. If this voltage is significant it can be reduced (also reducing the inherent accuracy and precision of the **measurement**) by using a higher current range. Since the basic indicator system in either an analog or digital meter responds to DC only, a multimeter includes an AC to DC conversion circuit for making alternatin...
120. ...emonstrated superconducting qubits with coherence times up to several 100 μs. Weighting filter A weighting filter is used to emphasize or suppress some aspects of a phenomenon compared to others, for **measurement** or other purposes. In each field of audio measurement, special units are used to indicate a weighted measurement as opposed to a basic physical measurement of energy level. For sound, the unit is the...
121. ...s up to several 100 μs. Weighting filter A weighting filter is used to emphasize or suppress some aspects of a phenomenon compared to others, for measurement or other purposes. In each field of audio **measurement**, special units are used to indicate a weighted measurement as opposed to a basic physical measurement of energy level. For sound, the unit is the phon (1 kHz equivalent level). Sound has three basic...
122. ...is used to emphasize or suppress some aspects of a phenomenon compared to others, for measurement or other purposes. In each field of audio measurement, special units are used to indicate a weighted **measurement** as opposed to a basic physical measurement of energy level. For sound, the unit is the phon (1 kHz equivalent level). Sound has three basic components, the wavelength, frequency, and speed. In sound...
123. ...cts of a phenomenon compared to others, for measurement or other purposes. In each field of audio measurement, special units are used to indicate a weighted measurement as opposed to a basic physical **measurement** of energy level. For sound, the unit is the phon (1 kHz equivalent level). Sound has three basic components, the wavelength, frequency, and speed. In sound measurement, we measure the loudness of the...
124. ...as opposed to a basic physical measurement of energy level. For sound, the unit is the phon (1 kHz equivalent level). Sound has three basic components, the wavelength, frequency, and speed. In sound **measurement**, we measure the loudness of the sound in decibels (dB). Decibels are logarithmic with 0 dB as the reference. There are also a range of frequencies that sounds can have. Frequency is the number of tim...
125. ...requencies that sounds can have. Frequency is the number of times a sine wave repeats itself in a second. Normal auditory systems can usually hear between 20 and 20,000 Hz. When we measure sound, the **measurement** instrument takes the incoming auditory signal and analyzes it for these different features. Weighting filters in these instruments then filter out certain frequencies and decibel levels depending on...
126. ...rs are most similar to natural human hearing. This allows the sound level meter to determine what decibel level the incoming sound would likely be for a normal hearing human's auditory system. In the **measurement** of loudness, for example, an A-weighting filter is commonly used to emphasize frequencies around 3–6 kHz where the human ear is most sensitive, while attenuating very high and very low frequencies to...
127. ...or monitoring of noise levels anymore. C curves differ from both A and B in the fact that they filter less of the lower and higher frequencies. The filter is a much flatter shape and is used in sound **measurement** in especially loud and noisy environments. A weighted curves follow a 40 phon curve while C weighted follows a 100 phon curve. The three curves differ not in their measurement of exposure levels, but...
128. ...pe and is used in sound measurement in especially loud and noisy environments. A weighted curves follow a 40 phon curve while C weighted follows a 100 phon curve. The three curves differ not in their **measurement** of exposure levels, but in the frequencies measured. A weighted curves allow more frequencies equal to or less than 500 Hz through, which is most representative of the human ear. There are a variety...
129. ...are a variety of reasons for measuring sound. This includes following regulations to protect worker's hearing, following noise ordinances, in telecommunications, and many more. At the basis of sound **measurement** is the idea of breaking down an incoming signal based on its different properties. Every incoming sinusoidal wave of sound has a frequency and amplitude. Using this information, a sound level can be...
130. ...e processing is somewhat similar. With a calibrated sound level meter, the incoming sounds are going to be picked up by the microphone and then measured by the internal electronic circuits. The sound **measurement** that the device outputs can be filtered through an A, B, or C weighting curve. The curve used will have slight effects on the resulting decibel level. In the field of telecommunications, weighting fi...
131. ...be filtered through an A, B, or C weighting curve. The curve used will have slight effects on the resulting decibel level. In the field of telecommunications, weighting filters are widely used in the **measurement** of electrical noise on telephone circuits, and in the assessment of noise as perceived through the acoustic response of different types of instrument (handset). Other noise-weighting curves have exis...
132. ...ypes of instrument (handset). Other noise-weighting curves have existed, e.g. DIN standards. The term "psophometric weighting", though referring in principle to any weighting curve intended for noise **measurement**, is often used to refer to a particular weighting curve, used in telephony for narrow-bandwidth voiceband speech circuits. A-weighted decibels are abbreviated dB(A) or dBA. When acoustic (calibrated...
133. ...ements are being referred to, then the units used will be dB SPL (sound pressure level) referenced to 20 micropascals = 0 dB SPL. The A-weighting curve has been widely adopted for environmental noise **measurement**, and is standard in many sound level meters (see ITU-R 468 weighting for a further explanation). A-weighting is also in common use for assessing potential hearing damage caused by loud noise, though...
134. ...source is often "forgotten", when SPL measurements are quoted, making the data useless. In the case of environmental or aircraft noise, distance need not be quoted as it is the level at the point of **measurement** that is needed, but when measuring refrigerators and similar appliances the distance should be stated; where not stated it is usually one metre (1 m). An extra complication here is the effect of a re...
135. ...suring refrigerators and similar appliances the distance should be stated; where not stated it is usually one metre (1 m). An extra complication here is the effect of a reverberant room, and so noise **measurement** on appliances should state "at 1 m in an open field" or "at 1 m in anechoic chamber". Measurements made outdoors will approximate well to anechoic conditions. A-weighted SPL measurements of noise lev...
136. ...weighting typically also use a quasi-peak detector law rather than slow averaging. This also helps to quantify the audibility of bursty noise, ticks and pops that might go undetected with a slow rms **measurement**. ITU-R 468 noise weighting with quasi-peak detection is widely used in Europe, especially in telecommunications, and in broadcasting particularly after it was adopted by the Dolby corporation who rea...
137. ...will not be heard. A-weighting is often used to compare and qualify ADCs, for instance, because it more accurately represents the way noise shaping hides dither noise in the ultrasonic range. In the **measurement** of gamma rays or other ionising radiation, a radiation monitor or dosimeter will commonly use a filter to attenuate those energy levels or wavelengths that cause the least damage to the human body, w...
138. ...than just its 'strength'. The sievert is a unit of weighted radiation dose for ionising radiation, which supersedes the older unit the REM (roentgen equivalent man). Weighting is also applied to the **measurement** of sunlight when assessing the risk of skin damage through sunburn, since different wavelengths have different biological effects. Common examples are the SPF of sunscreen, and the UV index. Another...
139. ...s that EMC is the control of EMI so that unwanted effects are prevented. Besides understanding the phenomena in themselves, EMC also addresses the countermeasures, such as control regimes, design and **measurement**, which should be taken in order to prevent emissions from causing any adverse effect. EMC is often understood as the control of electromagnetic interference (EMI). Electromagnetic interference divide...
140. ...rical equipment. For conducted emissions, typical transducers include the LISN (line impedance stabilization network) or AMN (artificial mains network) and the RF current clamp. For radiated emission **measurement**, antennas are used as transducers. Typical antennas specified include dipole, biconical, log-periodic, double ridged guide and conical log-spiral designs. Radiated emissions must be measured in all d...
141. ...ssion circuits, the ground itself can be used as one conductor of the circuit, saving the cost of installing a separate return conductor (see single-wire earth return and earth-return telegraph). For **measurement** purposes, the Earth serves as a (reasonably) constant potential reference against which other potentials can be measured. An electrical ground system should have an appropriate current-carrying capab...
142. ...ock, as such a connection may carry current during the normal operation of a device. Such devices include surge suppression, electromagnetic-compatibility filters, some types of antennas, and various **measurement** instruments. Generally the protective earth system is also used as a functional earth, though this requires care. Distribution power systems may be solidly grounded, with one circuit conductor direct...
143. ...ipyards, isolation transformers may be provided so that a fault in a power tool or its cable does not expose users to shock hazard. Circuits used to feed sensitive audio/video production equipment or **measurement** instruments may be fed from an isolated ungrounded technical power system to limit the injection of noise from the power system. In single-wire earth return (SWER) AC electrical distribution systems,...
144. ...icular in optics. In an optical fiber, group delay is the transit time required for optical power, traveling at a given mode's group velocity, to travel a given distance. For optical fiber dispersion **measurement** purposes, the quantity of interest is group delay per unit length, which is the reciprocal of the group velocity of a particular mode. The measured group delay of a signal through an optical fiber ex...
145. ...Phase, formula_85, sometimes referred to as just, "phase deviation", is the difference between the phase response, formula_57, and the linear portion of the phase response formula_87, and is a useful **measurement** to determine the linearity of formula_57. A convenient means to measure formula_85 is to take the simple linear regression of formula_57 sampled over a frequency range of interest, and subtract it fr...
146. ...e will generally become elliptically polarized. These cases are handled using Jones vectors acted upon by the different Fresnel coefficients for the "s"- and "p"-polarization components. Some optical **measurement** techniques are based on polarization. In many other optical techniques polarization is crucial or at least must be taken into account and controlled; such examples are too numerous to mention. In eng...
147. ...f manufacture. This is famously observed in cellophane tape whose birefringence is due to the stretching of the material during the manufacturing process. Ellipsometry is a powerful technique for the **measurement** of the optical properties of a uniform surface. It involves measuring the polarization state of light following specular reflection from such a surface. This is typically done as a function of incide...
148. ...rystal, making it stand out when viewed in between two crossed polarizers, as seen in the photograph, above. Likewise, in chemistry, rotation of polarization axes in a liquid solution can be a useful **measurement**. In a liquid, linear birefringence is impossible, but there may be circular birefringence when a chiral molecule is in solution. When the right and left handed enantiomers of such a molecule are pres...
149. ...y either one phase or three phase) and accurately calculate true power (watts), apparent power (VA) power factor, AC voltage, AC current, DC voltage, DC current, frequency, IEC61000-3-2/3-12 Harmonic **measurement**, IEC61000-3-3/3-11 flicker measurement, individual phase voltages in delta applications where there is no neutral line, total harmonic distortion, phase and amplitude of individual voltage or current...
150. ...accurately calculate true power (watts), apparent power (VA) power factor, AC voltage, AC current, DC voltage, DC current, frequency, IEC61000-3-2/3-12 Harmonic measurement, IEC61000-3-3/3-11 flicker **measurement**, individual phase voltages in delta applications where there is no neutral line, total harmonic distortion, phase and amplitude of individual voltage or current harmonics, etc. Anglophone power engin...
151. ...ry. Handheld pyrometer devices are often marketed as infrared thermometers. Radiometry is important in astronomy, especially radio astronomy, and plays a significant role in Earth remote sensing. The **measurement** techniques categorized as "radiometry" in optics are called "photometry" in some astronomical applications, contrary to the optics usage of the term. Spectroradiometry is the measurement of absolute...
152. ...sensing. The measurement techniques categorized as "radiometry" in optics are called "photometry" in some astronomical applications, contrary to the optics usage of the term. Spectroradiometry is the **measurement** of absolute radiometric quantities in narrow bands of wavelength. Integral quantities (like radiant flux) describe the total effect of radiation of all wavelengths or frequencies, while spectral quan...
153. ...es to measuring liquid levels. In the former, the time domain reflectometer is used to isolate failing sites in the same. The latter is primarily limited to the process industry. In a TDR-based level **measurement** device, the device generates an impulse that propagates down a thin waveguide (referred to as a probe) – typically a metal rod or a steel cable. When this impulse hits the surface of the medium to be...
154. ...f the inverses of the component impedances: or, when n = 2: The equivalent impedance formula_77 can be calculated in terms of the equivalent series resistance formula_78 and reactance formula_79. The **measurement** of the impedance of devices and transmission lines is a practical problem in radio technology and other fields. Measurements of impedance may be carried out at one frequency, or the variation of devi...
155. ...tly in ohms, or other values related to impedance may be displayed; for example, in a radio antenna, the standing wave ratio or reflection coefficient may be more useful than the impedance alone. The **measurement** of impedance requires the measurement of the magnitude of voltage and current, and the phase difference between them. Impedance is often measured by "bridge" methods, similar to the direct-current Wh...
156. ...o impedance may be displayed; for example, in a radio antenna, the standing wave ratio or reflection coefficient may be more useful than the impedance alone. The measurement of impedance requires the **measurement** of the magnitude of voltage and current, and the phase difference between them. Impedance is often measured by "bridge" methods, similar to the direct-current Wheatstone bridge; a calibrated referenc...
157. ...sured by "bridge" methods, similar to the direct-current Wheatstone bridge; a calibrated reference impedance is adjusted to balance off the effect of the impedance of the device under test. Impedance **measurement** in power electronic devices may require simultaneous measurement and provision of power to the operating device. The impedance of a device can be calculated by complex division of the voltage and cur...
158. ...ne bridge; a calibrated reference impedance is adjusted to balance off the effect of the impedance of the device under test. Impedance measurement in power electronic devices may require simultaneous **measurement** and provision of power to the operating device. The impedance of a device can be calculated by complex division of the voltage and current. The impedance of the device can be calculated by applying a...
159. ...mpedance of the device can be calculated by applying a sinusoidal voltage to the device in series with a resistor, and measuring the voltage across the resistor and across the device. Performing this **measurement** by sweeping the frequencies of the applied signal provides the impedance phase and magnitude. The use of an impulse response may be used in combination with the fast Fourier transform (FFT) to rapidl...
160. ...equences are compared in the figure (diagram) with the effective surface temperature of the stars if they were perfect black bodies. There is a rough correlation. For example, for a given "B-V" index **measurement**, the curves of both most common sequences of star (the main sequence and the supergiants) lie below the corresponding black-body "U-B" index that includes the ultraviolet spectrum, showing that both...
161. ...A discrepancy known as the ortho-positronium lifetime puzzle persisted for some time, but was resolved with further calculations and measurements. Measurements were in error because of the lifetime **measurement** of unthermalised positronium, which was produced at only a small rate. This had yielded lifetimes that were too long. Also calculations using relativistic quantum electrodynamics are difficult, so th...
162. ...resistance now has a permanent offset which is linear around the null point. Because of its appearance, this sensor type is called 'barber pole'. The AMR effect is used in a wide array of sensors for **measurement** of Earth's magnetic field (electronic compass), for electric current measuring (by measuring the magnetic field created around the conductor), for traffic detection and for linear position and angle...
163. ...iology for magnetic field imaging (MFI), which detects the magnetic field of the heart for diagnosis and risk stratification. Probably the most common commercial use of SQUIDs is in magnetic property **measurement** systems (MPMS). These are turn-key systems, made by several manufacturers, that measure the magnetic properties of a material sample which typically has a temperature between 300 mK and 400 K. With t...
164. ...h typically has a temperature between 300 mK and 400 K. With the decreasing size of SQUID sensors since the last decade, such sensor can equip the tip of an AFM probe. Such device allows simultaneous **measurement** of roughness of the surface of a sample and the local magnetic flux. For example, SQUIDs are being used as detectors to perform magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). While high-field MRI uses precession...
165. ...gnetic flux. For example, SQUIDs are being used as detectors to perform magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). While high-field MRI uses precession fields of one to several teslas, SQUID-detected MRI uses **measurement** fields that lie in the microtesla range. In a conventional MRI system, the signal scales as the square of the measurement frequency (and hence precession field): one power of frequency comes from the...
166. ...MRI uses precession fields of one to several teslas, SQUID-detected MRI uses measurement fields that lie in the microtesla range. In a conventional MRI system, the signal scales as the square of the **measurement** frequency (and hence precession field): one power of frequency comes from the thermal polarization of the spins at ambient temperature, while the second power of field comes from the fact that the in...
167. ...netizing field, the nanoparticles decay from a ferromagnetic state to a paramagnetic state, with a time constant that depends upon the particle size and whether they are bound to an external surface. **Measurement** of the decaying magnetic field by SQUID sensors is used to detect and localize the nanoparticles. Applications for SPMR may include cancer detection. Doctor Doom Doctor Doom (Dr. Victor von Doom) is...
168. ...one watt of power. The coulomb (later "absolute coulomb" or "abcoulomb" for disambiguation) was part of the EMU system of units. The "international coulomb" based on laboratory specifications for its **measurement** was introduced by the IEC in 1908. The entire set of "reproducible units" was abandoned in 1948 and the "international coulomb" became the modern coulomb. Georg Ohm Georg Simon Ohm (; ; 16 March 1789...
169. ...ength of the current at each point is proportional to the gradient of electric potential. The accuracy of the assumption that flow is proportional to the gradient is more readily tested, using modern **measurement** methods, for the electrical case than for the heat case. Ohm's law, in the form above, is an extremely useful equation in the field of electrical/electronic engineering because it describes how volta...
170. ...etic dipole aligned, the force can be asymptotically approximated at large distance formula_10 by, where formula_2 is the magnetization of the magnets and formula_18 is the gap between the magnets. A **measurement** of the magnetic flux density very close to the magnet formula_19 is related to formula_2 approximately by the formula The effective magnetic dipole can be written as Where formula_23 is the volume of...
171. ...e order parameter in the HTS as well as the emergence of the HTS. In order to solve this unsettled problem, there have been numerous experiments such as photoelectron spectroscopy, NMR, specific heat **measurement**, etc. Unfortunately, the results were ambiguous, where some reports supported the d symmetry for the HTS but others supported the s symmetry. This muddy situation possibly originated from the indirec...
172. ...rger the diameter and the smoother the sphere is, the higher the voltage that can be achieved. Statcoulomb The statcoulomb (statC), franklin (Fr), or electrostatic unit of charge (esu) is the unit of **measurement** for electrical charge used in the centimetre–gram–second electrostatic units variant (CGS-ESU) and Gaussian systems of units. It is a derived unit given by That is, it is defined so that the CGS-ESU...
173. ...ivity can be then calculated as For time-variant electromagnetic fields, this quantity becomes frequency-dependent. An indirect technique to calculate "ε" is conversion of radio frequency S-parameter **measurement** results. A description of frequently used S-parameter conversions for determination of the frequency-dependent "ε" of dielectrics can be found in this bibliographic source. Alternatively, resonance b...
174. ...Also, by using cryostats and ovens, the dielectric properties of a medium can be characterized over an array of temperatures. In order to study systems for such diverse excitation fields, a number of **measurement** setups are used, each adequate for a special frequency range. Various microwave measurement techniques are outlined in Chen "et al.". Typical errors for the Hakki–Coleman method employing a puck of m...
175. ...ed over an array of temperatures. In order to study systems for such diverse excitation fields, a number of measurement setups are used, each adequate for a special frequency range. Various microwave **measurement** techniques are outlined in Chen "et al.". Typical errors for the Hakki–Coleman method employing a puck of material between conducting planes are about 0.3%. At infrared and optical frequencies, a com...
176. ...d optical frequencies, a common technique is ellipsometry. Dual polarisation interferometry is also used to measure the complex refractive index for very thin films at optical frequencies. For the 3D **measurement** of dielectric tensors at optical frequency, Dielectric tensor tomography can be used. Bremsstrahlung In particle physics, (; ) is electromagnetic radiation produced by the deceleration of a charged p...
177. ...magnetic and electric fields behave. Fusion exploits several plasma properties, including: Many approaches, equipment, and mechanisms are employed across multiple projects to address fusion heating, **measurement**, and power production. A deep reinforcement learning system has been used to control a tokamak-based reactor. The system was able to manipulate the magnetic coils to manage the plasma. The system was...
178. ...r measuring resistance is called an ohmmeter. Simple ohmmeters cannot measure low resistances accurately because the resistance of their measuring leads causes a voltage drop that interferes with the **measurement**, so more accurate devices use four-terminal sensing. Many electrical elements, such as diodes and batteries do satisfy Ohm's law. These are called "non-ohmic" or "non-linear", and their current–volta...
179. ...ce", formula_21 is a fixed reference temperature (usually room temperature), and formula_22 is the resistance at temperature formula_21. The parameter formula_20 is an empirical parameter fitted from **measurement** data. Because the linear approximation is only an approximation, formula_20 is different for different reference temperatures. For this reason it is usual to specify the temperature that formula_20 w...
180. ...y", formula_41 is a fixed reference temperature (usually room temperature), and formula_42 is the resistivity at temperature formula_41. The parameter formula_26 is an empirical parameter fitted from **measurement** data. Because the linear approximation is only an approximation, formula_26 is different for different reference temperatures. For this reason it is usual to specify the temperature that formula_26 w...
181. ...d along a flux tube. In many geometries, this flux tube will end at a surface in a distant part of the device, and this spot should itself exhibit an "I-V" characteristic. The net result would be the **measurement** of a double-probe characteristic; in other words, electron saturation current equal to the ion saturation current. When this picture is considered in detail, it is seen that the flux tube must charge...
182. ...an check whether the "I-V" characteristic has the expected form. Potentially additional information can be extracted from details of the characteristic. The disadvantages are more complex biasing and **measurement** electronics and a poor time resolution. If fluctuations are present (as they always are) and the sweep is slower than the fluctuation frequency (as it usually is), then the "I-V" is the "average" cur...
183. ...lectrode flanked by two floating electrodes. The ion-saturation current is taken as a surrogate for the density and the floating potential as a surrogate for the plasma potential. This allows a rough **measurement** of the turbulent particle flux formula_55 Most often, the Langmuir probe is a small sized electrode inserted into a plasma which is connected to an external circuit that measures the properties of th...
184. ...When the battery is charging or discharging, the emf itself cannot be measured directly using the external voltage because some voltage is lost inside the source. It can, however, be inferred from a **measurement** of the current formula_27 and potential difference formula_16, provided that the internal resistance formula_66 already has been measured: "formula_67" "Potential difference" is not the same as "indu...
185. ...take from "A" to "B".  If a voltmeter always measured the potential difference between "A" and "B", then the position of the voltmeter would make no difference.  However, it is quite possible for the **measurement** by a voltmeter between points "A" and "B" to depend on the position of the voltmeter, if a time-dependent magnetic field is present.  For example, consider an infinitely long solenoid using an AC cur...
186. ...DC wiring. Thermocouple wires and extension cables are identified by color code for the type of thermocouple; interchanging thermocouples with unsuitable extension wires destroys the accuracy of the **measurement**. Automotive wiring is color-coded but standards vary by manufacturer; differing SAE and DIN standards exist. Modern personal computer peripheral cables and connectors are color-coded to simplify conn...
187. ...umbling to the diagrams on the wall. In the laboratory he felt himself at home, and ever after confined his duties mostly to demonstration. He achieved renown by a great experiment made in 1834 – the **measurement** of the velocity of electricity in a wire. He cut the wire at the middle, to form a gap which a spark might leap across, and connected its ends to the poles of a Leyden jar filled with electricity. Th...
188. ...e temperature. He now estimated a mechanical equivalent of . He wrote a letter to the Philosophical Magazine, published in September 1845 describing his experiment. In 1850, Joule published a refined **measurement** of , closer to twentieth century estimates. Much of the initial resistance to Joule's work stemmed from its dependence upon extremely precise measurements. He claimed to be able to measure temperatur...
189. ...n writers have criticised this approach on the grounds that Rumford's experiments in no way represented systematic quantitative measurements. In one of his personal notes, Joule contends that Mayer's **measurement** was no more accurate than Rumford's, perhaps in the hope that Mayer had not anticipated his own work. Joule has been attributed with explaining the sunset green flash phenomenon in a letter to the Ma...
190. ...ut attempting to explain the cause of the phenomenon. Joule died at home in Sale and is buried in Brooklands cemetery there. His gravestone is inscribed with the number "772.55", his climacteric 1878 **measurement** of the mechanical equivalent of heat, in which he found that this amount of foot-pounds of work must be expended at sea level to raise the temperature of one pound of water from to . There is also a...
191. ...etometer is the term used for an instrument that measures fields of less than 1 millitesla (mT) and gaussmeter is used for those measuring greater than 1 mT. There are two basic types of magnetometer **measurement**. "Vector magnetometers" measure the vector components of a magnetic field. "Total field magnetometers" or "scalar magnetometers" measure the magnitude of the vector magnetic field. Magnetometers used...
192. ...ated compass is proportional to the square-root of the horizontal intensity of the ambient field. In 1833, Carl Friedrich Gauss, head of the Geomagnetic Observatory in Göttingen, published a paper on **measurement** of the Earth's magnetic field. It described a new instrument that consisted of a permanent bar magnet suspended horizontally from a gold fibre. The difference in the oscillations when the bar was mag...
193. ...lues as to the type of magnetic ordering, as well as any phase transitions between different types of magnetic orders that occur at critical temperatures or magnetic fields. This type of magnetometry **measurement** is very important to understand the magnetic properties of materials in physics, chemistry, geophysics and geology, as well as sometimes biology. SQUIDs are a type of magnetometer used both as survey...
194. ...μ × B. A torque is thus a measure of the sample's magnetic or shape anisotropy. In some cases the sample's magnetization can be extracted from the measured torque. In other cases, the magnetic torque **measurement** is used to detect magnetic phase transitions or quantum oscillations. The most common way to measure magnetic torque is to mount the sample on a cantilever and measure the displacement via capacitanc...
195. ...s used to detect magnetic phase transitions or quantum oscillations. The most common way to measure magnetic torque is to mount the sample on a cantilever and measure the displacement via capacitance **measurement** between the cantilever and nearby fixed object, or by measuring the piezoelectricity of the cantilever, or by optical interferometry off the surface of the cantilever. Faraday force magnetometry uses...
196. ...adings. The "Overhauser effect magnetometer" or "Overhauser magnetometer" uses the same fundamental effect as the "proton precession magnetometer" to take measurements. By adding free radicals to the **measurement** fluid, the nuclear Overhauser effect can be exploited to significantly improve upon the proton precession magnetometer. Rather than aligning the protons using a solenoid, a low power radio-frequency...
197. ...parent. This process happens continuously to maintain as many of the electrons as possible in that state. At this point, the sample (or population) is said to have been optically pumped and ready for **measurement** to take place. When an external field is applied it disrupts this state and causes atoms to move to different states which makes the vapour less transparent. The photo detector can measure this chang...
198. ...area and many accurate magnetic field measurements are often needed, caesium and potassium magnetometers have advantages over the proton magnetometer. The caesium and potassium magnetometer's faster **measurement** rate allows the sensor to be moved through the area more quickly for a given number of data points. Caesium and potassium magnetometers are insensitive to rotation of the sensor while the measurement...
199. ...measurement rate allows the sensor to be moved through the area more quickly for a given number of data points. Caesium and potassium magnetometers are insensitive to rotation of the sensor while the **measurement** is being made. The lower noise of caesium and potassium magnetometers allow those measurements to more accurately show the variations in the field with position. Vector magnetometers measure one or m...
200. ...be employed, such that the sense winding is driven to counteract the external field. In such cases, the feedback current varies linearly with the external magnetic field and is used as the basis for **measurement**. This helps to counter inherent non-linearity between the applied external field strength and the flux gated through the sense winding. SQUIDs, or superconducting quantum interference devices, measur...
201. ...etecting radio-frequency magnetic fields. This technology may produce a magnetic sensor that has all of its input and output signals in the form of light on fiber-optic cables. This lets the magnetic **measurement** be made near high electrical voltages. The calibration of magnetometers is usually performed by means of coils which are supplied by an electrical current to create a magnetic field. It allows to cha...
202. ...ings rise and fall, a radar altimeter keeps track of the transducer's deviation from the nominal altitude above ground. There may also be a camera that takes photos of the ground. The location of the **measurement** is determined by also recording a GPS. Many smartphones contain miniaturized microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) magnetometers which are used to detect magnetic field strength and are used as compa...
203. ...f sources. Throughout the 1940s improvements in microwave technology made it possible to take more precise measurements of the shift of the levels of a hydrogen atom, now known as the Lamb shift, and **measurement** of the magnetic moment of the electron. Discrepancies between these experiments and Dirac's theory led to the idea of incorporating renormalisation into QED to deal with zero-point infinities. Renorm...
204. ...llowing relations: formula_4 formula_5 where V is the (DC) voltage measured by the PMT from the extraordinary wave, and V is the DC component of the voltage measured by the PMT for the ordinary wave (**measurement** path not shown in the diagram). Some superconducting magnets have a small sample chamber, far too small to contain the entire optical system. Instead, the magnet sample chamber has windows on two opp...
205. ...identical element not exposed to microwaves; variations in temperature common to both elements do not affect the accuracy of the reading. The average response time of the bolometer allows convenient **measurement** of the power of a pulsed source. In 2020, two groups reported microwave bolometers based on graphene-based materials capable of microwave detection at the single-photon level. Photoresistor A photore...
206. ...ssive component that does not have a PN-junction. The photoresistivity of any photoresistor may vary widely depending on ambient temperature, making them unsuitable for applications requiring precise **measurement** of or sensitivity to light photons. Photoresistors also exhibit a certain degree of latency between exposure to light and the subsequent decrease in resistance, usually around 10 milliseconds. The la...
207. ...onstituent of various metal alloys, such as sterling silver used in jewelry, cupronickel used to make marine hardware and coins, and constantan used in strain gauges and thermocouples for temperature **measurement**. Copper is one of the few metals that can occur in nature in a directly usable metallic form (native metals). This led to very early human use in several regions, from . Thousands of years later, it...
208. ...r also exhibits capacitance, here called "self capacitance". It is measured by the amount of electric charge that must be added to an isolated conductor to raise its electric potential by one unit of **measurement**, e.g., one volt. The reference point for this potential is a theoretical hollow conducting sphere, of infinite radius, with the conductor centered inside this sphere. Self capacitance of a conductor...
209. ...c field. Spark plug Spark plugs may also be used for other purposes; in Saab Direct Ignition when they are not firing, spark plugs are used to measure ionization in the cylinders – this ionic current **measurement** is used to replace the ordinary cam phase sensor, knock sensor and misfire measurement function. Spark plugs may also be used in other applications such as furnaces wherein a combustible fuel/air mix...
210. ...ition when they are not firing, spark plugs are used to measure ionization in the cylinders – this ionic current measurement is used to replace the ordinary cam phase sensor, knock sensor and misfire **measurement** function. Spark plugs may also be used in other applications such as furnaces wherein a combustible fuel/air mixture must be ignited. In this case, they are sometimes referred to as flame igniters. I...
211. ...l range of variation, as shown by the record of past magnetic fields recorded in rocks. The nature of Earth's magnetic field is one of heteroscedastic (seemingly random) fluctuation. An instantaneous **measurement** of it, or several measurements of it across the span of decades or centuries, are not sufficient to extrapolate an overall trend in the field strength. It has gone up and down in the past for unknown...
212. ...ison indicating a dynamic geodynamo in action that appears to be giving rise to an alternate pole under the Atlantic Ocean west of South Africa. Governments sometimes operate units that specialize in **measurement** of the Earth's magnetic field. These are geomagnetic observatories, typically part of a national Geological survey, for example, the British Geological Survey's Eskdalemuir Observatory. Such observat...
213. ...magnetic properties, these magnetic variations have provided another means to study the deep ocean floor. When newly formed rock cools, such magnetic materials record the Earth's magnetic field. Each **measurement** of the magnetic field is at a particular place and time. If an accurate estimate of the field at some other place and time is needed, the measurements must be converted to a model and the model used...
214. ...tention curve. Matric potential measurements (Ψ) are converted to volumetric water content (θ) measurements based on a site or soil specific calibration curve. Hysteresis is a source of water content **measurement** error. Matric potential hysteresis arises from differences in wetting behaviour causing dry medium to re-wet; that is, it depends on the saturation history of the porous medium. Hysteretic behaviour...
215. ...over the globe. Much of his life was devoted to their direction and to analysing their observations. Other research focused on the birds of Greenland, ocean temperatures, the Gulf Stream, barometric **measurement** of heights, arc of the meridian, glacial transport of rocks, the volcanoes of the Hawaiian Islands and various points of meteorology. Edward Sabine was born 14 October 1788 in Great Britain St. (Parn...
216. ...applications. Advances in the instrumentation and in detection have expanded the number of applications in which pH measurements can be conducted. The devices have been miniaturized, enabling direct **measurement** of pH inside of living cells. In addition to measuring the pH of liquids, specially designed electrodes are available to measure the pH of semi-solid substances, such as foods. These have tips suitab...
217. ...rged ions on the glass bulb, creating an electrochemical potential across the bulb. The electronic amplifier detects the difference in electrical potential between the two electrodes generated in the **measurement** and converts the potential difference to pH units. The magnitude of the electrochemical potential across the glass bulb is linearly related to the pH according to the Nernst equation. The reference e...
218. .... A detailed description of combination electrodes is given in the article on glass electrodes. The pH meter is calibrated with solutions of known pH, typically before each use, to ensure accuracy of **measurement**. To measure the pH of a solution, the electrodes are used as probes, which are dipped into the test solutions and held there sufficiently long for the hydrogen ions in the test solution to equilibrat...
219. ...ons and held there sufficiently long for the hydrogen ions in the test solution to equilibrate with the ions on the surface of the bulb on the glass electrode. This equilibration provides a stable pH **measurement**. Details of the fabrication and resulting microstructure of the glass membrane of the pH electrode are maintained as trade secrets by the manufacturers. However, certain aspects of design are publish...
220. ...etergent or methanol), clogged reference junction (KCl solution), protein deposits (pepsin and HCl, 1% solution), and air bubbles. The German Institute for Standardization publishes a standard for pH **measurement** using pH meters, DIN 19263. Very precise measurements necessitate that the pH meter is calibrated before each measurement. More typically calibration is performed once per day of operation. Calibrati...
221. ...bubbles. The German Institute for Standardization publishes a standard for pH measurement using pH meters, DIN 19263. Very precise measurements necessitate that the pH meter is calibrated before each **measurement**. More typically calibration is performed once per day of operation. Calibration is needed because the glass electrode does not give reproducible electrostatic potentials over longer periods of time....
222. ...the electrode probes. The calibration process correlates the voltage produced by the probe (approximately 0.06 volts per pH unit) with the pH scale. Good laboratory practice dictates that, after each **measurement**, the probes are rinsed with distilled water or deionized water to remove any traces of the solution being measured, blotted with a scientific wipe to absorb any remaining water, which could dilute th...
223. ...y device. Specialty meters and probes are available for use in special applications, such as harsh environments and biological microenvironments. There are also holographic pH sensors, which allow pH **measurement** colorimetrically, making use of the variety of pH indicators that are available. Additionally, there are commercially available pH meters based on solid state electrodes, rather than conventional gla...
224. ...ommercially available pH meters based on solid state electrodes, rather than conventional glass electrodes. The concept of pH was defined in 1909 by S. P. L. Sørensen, and electrodes were used for pH **measurement** in the 1920s. In October 1934, Arnold Orville Beckman registered the first patent for a complete chemical instrument for the measurement of pH, U.S. Patent No. 2,058,761, for his "acidimeter", later...
225. ...in 1909 by S. P. L. Sørensen, and electrodes were used for pH measurement in the 1920s. In October 1934, Arnold Orville Beckman registered the first patent for a complete chemical instrument for the **measurement** of pH, U.S. Patent No. 2,058,761, for his "acidimeter", later renamed the pH meter. Beckman developed the prototype as an assistant professor of chemistry at the California Institute of Technology, w...
226. ...the electrodes for pH meters were often difficult to make, or unreliable due to brittle glass. Dr. Werner Ingold began to industrialize the production of single-rod measuring cells, a combination of **measurement** and reference electrode in one construction unit, which led to broader acceptance in a wide range of industries including pharmaceutical production. Beckman marketed a portable "Pocket pH Meter" as e...
227. ...bilizing rather than spinning. A laser designator marks a target, which is tracked by the dart's optical sensor and 8-bit CPU. The guided projectile is kept cheap because it does not need an inertial **measurement** unit, since its small size allows it to make the fast corrections necessary without the aid of an IMU. The natural body frequency of the bullet is about 30 hertz, so corrections can be made 30 times...
228. ...d cancer and genetic damage. The sievert is important in dosimetry and radiation protection. It is named after Rolf Maximilian Sievert, a Swedish medical physicist renowned for work on radiation dose **measurement** and research into the biological effects of radiation. The sievert is used for radiation dose quantities such as equivalent dose and effective dose, which represent the risk of external radiation fro...
229. ...of absorbed dose designed to be representative of the stochastic health effects of radiation, and use of the sievert implies that appropriate weighting factors have been applied to the absorbed dose **measurement** or calculation (expressed in grays). The ICRP calculation provides two weighting factors to enable the calculation of protection quantities. When a whole body is irradiated uniformly only the radiati...
230. ...n quantities in SI and non-SI units: Although the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission permits the use of the units curie, rad, and rem alongside SI units, the European Union European units of **measurement** directives required that their use for "public health ... purposes" be phased out by 31 December 1985. An older unit for the dose equivalent is the rem, still often used in the United States. One sie...
231. ...at a fixed value is a direct reflection of the current flowing through the membrane. Other electronic advances included the use of Faraday cages and electronics with high input impedance, so that the **measurement** itself did not affect the voltage being measured. The third problem, that of obtaining electrodes small enough to record voltages within a single axon without perturbing it, was solved in 1949 with t...
232. ...the Commodore PET. Newer standards have largely replaced IEEE 488 for computer use, but it is still used by test equipment. In the 1960s, Hewlett-Packard (HP) manufactured various automated test and **measurement** instruments, such as digital multimeters and logic analyzers. They developed the "HP Interface Bus (HP-IB)" to enable easier interconnection between instruments and controllers (computers and other i...
233. ...able easier interconnection between instruments and controllers (computers and other instruments). This part of HP was later (c. 1999) spun off as Agilent Technologies, and in 2014 Agilent's test and **measurement** division was spun off as Keysight Technologies. The bus was relatively easy to implement using the technology at the time, using a simple parallel bus and several individual control lines. For exampl...
234. ...f instrument, "e.g.", multimeters, varied between manufacturers and even models. The United States Air Force, and later Hewlett-Packard, recognized this as a problem. In 1989, HP developed their Test **Measurement** Language (TML) or Test and Measurement Systems Language (TMSL) which was the forerunner to Standard Commands for Programmable Instrumentation (SCPI), introduced as an industry standard in 1990. SCPI...
235. ...ed between manufacturers and even models. The United States Air Force, and later Hewlett-Packard, recognized this as a problem. In 1989, HP developed their Test Measurement Language (TML) or Test and **Measurement** Systems Language (TMSL) which was the forerunner to Standard Commands for Programmable Instrumentation (SCPI), introduced as an industry standard in 1990. SCPI added standard generic commands, and a...
236. ...pectroscopy (and its applications to chemistry), quantum mechanics, nuclear and particle physics, plasma physics, biomolecular interactions, surface profiling, microfluidics, mechanical stress/strain **measurement**, velocimetry, optometry, and making holograms. Interferometers are devices that extract information from interference. They are widely used in science and industry for the measurement of microscopic...
237. ...l stress/strain measurement, velocimetry, optometry, and making holograms. Interferometers are devices that extract information from interference. They are widely used in science and industry for the **measurement** of microscopic displacements, refractive index changes and surface irregularities. In the case with most interferometers, light from a single source is split into two beams that travel in different o...
238. ...s later more-accurate null results observed with Edward W. Morley at Case College in Cleveland, Ohio, contributed to the growing crisis of the luminiferous ether. Einstein stated that it was Fizeau's **measurement** of the speed of light in moving water using the Arago interferometer that inspired his theory of the relativistic addition of velocities. Interferometers and interferometric techniques may be categor...
239. ...e synthesis, mixing signals from a cluster of comparatively small telescopes rather than a single very expensive monolithic telescope. Early radio telescope interferometers used a single baseline for **measurement**. Later astronomical interferometers, such as the Very Large Array illustrated in Fig 11, used arrays of telescopes arranged in a pattern on the ground. A limited number of baselines will result in in...
240. ...rmonic of the frequency of that step, which would be compared by heterodyne detection with the next step (the output of a microwave source, far infrared laser, infrared laser, or visible laser). Each **measurement** of a single spectral line required several years of effort in the construction of a custom frequency chain. Currently, optical frequency combs have provided a much simpler method of measuring optical...
241. ...he appropriate spectral segment of the comb and the frequency of the resultant heterodyne beats is measured. One of the most common industrial applications of optical interferometry is as a versatile **measurement** tool for the high precision examination of surface topography. Popular interferometric measurement techniques include Phase Shifting Interferometry (PSI), and Vertical Scanning Interferometry(VSI), a...
242. ...measured. One of the most common industrial applications of optical interferometry is as a versatile measurement tool for the high precision examination of surface topography. Popular interferometric **measurement** techniques include Phase Shifting Interferometry (PSI), and Vertical Scanning Interferometry(VSI), also known as scanning white light interferometry (SWLI) or by the ISO term coherence scanning inter...
243. ...The captured images are processed by a computer to calculate the optical wavefront errors. The precision and reproducibility of PSI is far greater than possible in static interferogram analysis, with **measurement** repeatabilities of a hundredth of a wavelength being routine. Phase shifting technology has been adapted to a variety of interferometer types such as Twyman–Green, Mach–Zehnder, laser Fizeau, and eve...
244. ...and even common path configurations such as point diffraction and lateral shearing interferometers. More generally, phase shifting techniques can be adapted to almost any system that uses fringes for **measurement**, such as holographic and speckle interferometry. In coherence scanning interferometry, interference is only achieved when the path length delays of the interferometer are matched within the coherence...
245. ...steps and rough surfaces. The axial resolution of the system is determined in part by the coherence length of the light source. Industrial applications include in-process surface metrology, roughness **measurement**, 3D surface metrology in hard-to-reach spaces and in hostile environments, profilometry of surfaces with high aspect ratio features (grooves, channels, holes), and film thickness measurement (semi-co...
246. ...oughness measurement, 3D surface metrology in hard-to-reach spaces and in hostile environments, profilometry of surfaces with high aspect ratio features (grooves, channels, holes), and film thickness **measurement** (semi-conductor and optical industries, etc.). Fig. 19 illustrates a Twyman–Green interferometer set up for white light scanning of a macroscopic object. Holographic interferometry is a technique whi...
247. ...x times between a mirror pair spaced precisely 1 m apart. Only if the test path was precisely 6 times the reference path would fringes be seen. Repeated applications of this procedure allowed precise **measurement** of distances up to 864 meters. Baselines thus established were used to calibrate geodetic distance measurement equipment, leading to a metrologically traceable scale for geodetic networks measured by...
248. ...ence path would fringes be seen. Repeated applications of this procedure allowed precise measurement of distances up to 864 meters. Baselines thus established were used to calibrate geodetic distance **measurement** equipment, leading to a metrologically traceable scale for geodetic networks measured by these instruments. (This method has been superseded by GPS.) Other uses of interferometers have been to study...
249. ...metrologically traceable scale for geodetic networks measured by these instruments. (This method has been superseded by GPS.) Other uses of interferometers have been to study dispersion of materials, **measurement** of complex indices of refraction, and thermal properties. They are also used for three-dimensional motion mapping including mapping vibrational patterns of structures. Optical interferometry, applied...
250. ...d for three-dimensional motion mapping including mapping vibrational patterns of structures. Optical interferometry, applied to biology and medicine, provides sensitive metrology capabilities for the **measurement** of biomolecules, subcellular components, cells and tissues. Many forms of label-free biosensors rely on interferometry because the direct interaction of electromagnetic fields with local molecular po...
251. ...lementary charge had also been indirectly inferred to ~3% accuracy from blackbody spectra by Max Planck in 1901 and (through the Faraday constant) at order-of-magnitude accuracy by Johann Loschmidt's **measurement** of the Avogadro number in 1865. In some natural unit systems, such as the system of atomic units, "e" functions as the unit of electric charge. The use of elementary charge as a unit was promoted by...
252. ...the wire (which can be measured as the time-integral of electric current), and also taking into account the molar mass of the ions, one can deduce "F". The limit to the precision of the method is the **measurement** of "F": the best experimental value has a relative uncertainty of 1.6 ppm, about thirty times higher than other modern methods of measuring or calculating the elementary charge. A famous method for m...
253. ...is "defined" to be exactly . Before that, the most recent (2014) accepted value was , where the (98) indicates the uncertainty of the last two decimal places. In his Nobel lecture, Millikan gave his **measurement** as , which equals . The difference is less than one percent, but is six times greater than Millikan's standard error, so the disagreement is significant. Using X-ray experiments, Erik Bäcklin in 1928...
254. ...better than anyone else at the time, the slightly larger uncertainty might have allowed more disagreement with his results within the physics community. While Franklin left his support for Millikan's **measurement** with the conclusion that concedes that Millikan may have performed "cosmetic surgery" on the data, David Goodstein investigated the original detailed notebooks kept by Millikan, concluding that Milli...
255. ...clude annotations regarding the apparatus setup, oil drop production, and atmospheric effects which invalidated, in Millikan's opinion (borne out by the reduced error in this set), a given particular **measurement**. In a commencement address given at the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) in 1974 (and reprinted in "Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!" in 1985 as well as in "The Pleasure of Finding Thin...
256. ...de using the Gouy balance where a sample is hung between the poles of an electromagnet. The change in weight when the electromagnet is turned on is proportional to the susceptibility. Today, high-end **measurement** systems use a superconductive magnet. An alternative is to measure the force change on a strong compact magnet upon insertion of the sample. This system, widely used today, is called the Evans balanc...
257. ...e magnetic anisotropy. When the material is not saturated, the effect will be nonlinear and dependent upon the domain wall configuration of the material. Several experimental techniques allow for the **measurement** of the electronic properties of a material. An important effect in metals under strong magnetic fields, is the oscillation of the differential susceptibility as function of . This behaviour is known...
258. ...of radioisotopes builds up within the organism (see banana equivalent dose). Some radionuclides, like potassium-40, emit a high-energy gamma ray that can be measured by sensitive electronic radiation **measurement** systems. These internal radiation sources contribute to an individual's total radiation dose from natural background radiation. An important source of natural radiation is radon gas, which seeps cont...
259. ...sics. A natural way to measure the separation between two energy levels is to find a measurable quantity defined by this separation and measure it. However, the precision of this method is limited by **measurement** precision and thus may be poor. Alternatively, we can set up an experiment in which the system's behavior depends on the energy level. If we apply an external field of controlled frequency, we can me...
260. ...SF fitting to determine the individual flux values of the overlapping sources. After determining the flux of an object in counts, the flux is normally converted into instrumental magnitude. Then, the **measurement** is calibrated in some way. Which calibrations are used will depend in part on what type of photometry is being done. Typically, observations are processed for relative or differential photometry. Rel...
261. ...ay. Which calibrations are used will depend in part on what type of photometry is being done. Typically, observations are processed for relative or differential photometry. Relative photometry is the **measurement** of the apparent brightness of multiple objects relative to each other. Absolute photometry is the measurement of the apparent brightness of an object on a standard photometric system; these measureme...
262. ...vations are processed for relative or differential photometry. Relative photometry is the measurement of the apparent brightness of multiple objects relative to each other. Absolute photometry is the **measurement** of the apparent brightness of an object on a standard photometric system; these measurements can be compared with other absolute photometric measurements obtained with different telescopes or instrum...
263. ...ect on a standard photometric system; these measurements can be compared with other absolute photometric measurements obtained with different telescopes or instruments. Differential photometry is the **measurement** of the difference in brightness of two objects. In most cases, differential photometry can be done with the highest precision, while absolute photometry is the most difficult to do with high precisio...
264. ...libration from an image that contains both the target and comparison objects in close proximity, and using a photometric filter that matches the catalog magnitude of the comparison object most of the **measurement** variations decrease to null. Differential photometry is the simplest of the calibrations and most useful for time series observations. When using CCD photometry, both the target and comparison object...
265. ...of brightness within the galaxy rather than simply measuring the galaxy's total brightness. An object's surface brightness is its brightness per unit solid angle as seen in projection on the sky, and **measurement** of surface brightness is known as surface photometry. A common application would be measurement of a galaxy's surface brightness profile, meaning its surface brightness as a function of distance from...
266. ...bject's surface brightness is its brightness per unit solid angle as seen in projection on the sky, and measurement of surface brightness is known as surface photometry. A common application would be **measurement** of a galaxy's surface brightness profile, meaning its surface brightness as a function of distance from the galaxy's center. For small solid angles, a useful unit of solid angle is the square arcseco...
267. ...of the 25th magnitude isophote in the blue B-band. In forced photometry, measurements are conducted at a specified "location" rather than for a specified "object". It is "forced" in the sense that a **measurement** can be taken even if there is no object visible (in the spectral band of interest) in the location being observed. Forced photometry allows extracting a magnitude, or an upper limit for the magnitude...
268. ...characterised by the length of spark it can produce; a '4 inch' (10 cm) induction coil could produce a 4 inch spark. Until the development of the cathode ray oscilloscope, this was the most reliable **measurement** of peak voltage of such asymmetric waveforms. The relationship between spark length and voltage is linear within a wide range: Curves supplied by a 1984 reference agree closely with those values. To...
269. ...or to an interconnecting cable, which then acts as an antenna. A radio receiver will often use an intermediate frequency which is detectable outside the radio—the concept behind at least one audience **measurement** concept for roadside detection of radio stations which passing motorists are listening to. Examples of incidental radiators include electric motors, transformers, dimmers, and corona from electrical...
270. ...r is necessary when developing circuits and systems than is needed when doing production testing or when troubleshooting existing production units in the field. The following items are used for basic **measurement** of voltages, currents, and components in the circuit under test. The following are used for stimulus of the circuit under test: The following analyze the response of the circuit under test: And conne...
271. ...sponse of the circuit under test: And connecting it all together: Meters Several modular electronic instrumentation platforms are currently in common use for configuring automated electronic test and **measurement** systems. These systems are widely employed for incoming inspection, quality assurance, and production testing of electronic devices and subassemblies. Industry-standard communication interfaces link...
272. ...ems are widely employed for incoming inspection, quality assurance, and production testing of electronic devices and subassemblies. Industry-standard communication interfaces link signal sources with **measurement** instruments in “rack-and-stack” or chassis-/mainframe-based systems, often under the control of a custom software application running on an external PC. The General Purpose Interface Bus (GPIB) is an...
273. ...VXI, PXI, etc.). This simplifies building and operating hybrid configurations of instruments. LXI instruments sometimes employ scripting using embedded test script processors for configuring test and **measurement** applications. Script-based instruments provide architectural flexibility, improved performance, and lower cost for many applications. Scripting enhances the benefits of LXI instruments, and LXI offer...
274. ...specialized for data acquisition and real-time control systems. Introduced in 1997, PXI uses the CompactPCI 3U and 6U form factors and adds trigger lines, a local bus, and other functions suited for **measurement** applications. PXI hardware and software specifications are developed and maintained by the PXI Systems Alliance. More than 50 manufacturers around the world produce PXI hardware. The Universal Serial...
275. ...2.0 specification). Because USB ports are standard features of PCs, they are a natural evolution of conventional serial port technology. However, it is not widely used in building industrial test and **measurement** systems for several reasons (e.g., USB cables are rarely industrial grade, are noise sensitive, are not positively attached and so are rather easily detachable, and the maximum distance between the c...
276. ...ommunication bus. Scripting is writing programs in a scripting language to coordinate a sequence of actions. This approach is optimized for small message transfers that are characteristic of test and **measurement** applications. With very little network overhead and a 100 Mbit/s data rate, it is significantly faster than GPIB and 100BaseT Ethernet in real applications. The advantage of this platform is that all...
277. ...integrated multi-channel system, so users can scale their test system to fit their required channel counts cost-effectively. A system configured on this type of platform can stand alone as a complete **measurement** and automation solution, with the master unit controlling sourcing, measuring, pass/fail decisions, test sequence flow control, binning, and the component handler or prober. Support for dedicated tri...
278. ...hin the disk change with sample thickness, as does the inelastic background. With appropriate analysis CBED patterns can be used for indexation of the crystal point group, space group identification, **measurement** of lattice parameters, thickness or strain. The disk diameter can be controlled using the microscope optics and apertures. The larger is the angle, the broader the disks are with more features. If th...
279. ...rtex carries one quantum of magnetic flux . Prior to the 2019 revision of the SI, the magnetic flux quantum was measured with great precision by exploiting the Josephson effect. When coupled with the **measurement** of the von Klitzing constant , this provided the most accurate values of the Planck constant obtained until 2019. This may be counterintuitive, since is generally associated with the behaviour of mic...
280. ...a few centimeters of the active components may change the amplitude or frequency of oscillations, or even prevent the circuit from oscillating at all. In that case, the signal has to be acquired by a **measurement** probe which extracts very little energy from the circuit. This can be achieved by employing very thin conductors, or tiny coils kept at some minimum separation from the active elements of the circuit...
281. ...ot quite the same as, the parameter "κ" used here, but nevertheless his results do appear to confirm the potential usefulness of this form of analysis. Use of the empirical CFE equation (42), and the **measurement** of "κ", may be of particular use for non-metals. Strictly, Fowler–Nordheim-type equations apply only to emission from the conduction band of bulk crystalline solids. However, empirical equations of f...
282. ...high power. A calibrated spherical spark gap will break down at a highly repeatable voltage, when corrected for air pressure, humidity and temperature. A gap between two spheres can provide a voltage **measurement** without any electronics or voltage dividers, to an accuracy of about 3%. A spark gap can be used to measure high voltage AC, DC, or pulses, but for very short pulses, an ultraviolet light source or r...
283. ...quiet, with typical noise levels in the 10–20 dBA range. In 2005, the best anechoic chamber measured at −9.4 dBA. In 2015, an anechoic chamber on the campus of Microsoft broke the world record with a **measurement** of −20.6 dBA. The human ear can typically detect sounds above 0 dBA, so a human in such a chamber would perceive the surroundings as devoid of sound. Anecdotally, some people may not like such silenc...
284. ...nts in electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) and antenna radiation patterns require that spurious signals arising from the test setup, including reflections, are negligible to avoid the risk of causing **measurement** errors and ambiguities. Waves of higher frequencies have shorter wavelengths and are higher in energy, while waves of lower frequencies have longer wavelengths and are lower in energy, according to t...
285. ...oom to attenuate unwanted signals penetrating inwards and causing interference to the equipment under test and prevent leakage from tests penetrating outside. At lower radiated frequencies, far-field **measurement** can require a large and expensive chamber. Sometimes, for example for radar cross-section measurements, it is possible to scale down the object under test and reduce the chamber size, provided that t...
286. ...I and also cause little reflection inside the chamber. The following health and safety risks are associated with RF anechoic chambers: Personnel are not normally permitted inside the chamber during a **measurement** as this not only can cause unwanted reflections from the human body but may also be a radiation hazard to the personnel concerned if tests are being performed at high RF powers. Such risks are from R...
287. ...ctly by reference to the celestial poles—the points in the heavens around which the stars appear to revolve, which mark the direction of true north and true south. The instrument used to perform this **measurement** is known as a "declinometer". The approximate position of the north celestial pole is indicated by Polaris (the North Star). In the northern hemisphere, declination can therefore be approximately det...
288. ...rum measured. As discussed in the operation section, the resolution bandwidth filter or RBW filter is the bandpass filter in the IF path. It's the bandwidth of the RF chain before the detector (power **measurement** device). It determines the RF noise floor and how close two signals can be and still be resolved by the analyzer into two separate peaks. Adjusting the bandwidth of this filter allows for the discrim...
289. ...e, the input can be subtracted from the output, attenuated and phase-corrected, to give only the added distortion and noise, which can be analysed. An alternative technique, total harmonic distortion **measurement**, cancels out the fundamental with a notch filter and measures the total remaining signal, which is total harmonic distortion plus noise; it does not give the harmonic-by-harmonic detail of an analyse...
290. ...id angle, based on the luminosity function, a standardized model of the sensitivity of the human eye. The SI unit of luminous intensity is the candela (cd), an SI base unit. Photometry deals with the **measurement** of visible light as perceived by human eyes. The human eye can only see light in the visible spectrum and has different sensitivities to light of different wavelengths within the spectrum. When adapt...
291. ...beam is narrower and brighter, though its luminous flux remains unchanged. Luminous intensity is also not the same as the radiant intensity, the corresponding objective physical quantity used in the **measurement** science of radiometry. Like other SI base units, the candela has an operational definition—it is defined by the description of a physical process that will produce one candela of luminous intensity....
292. ...electric attraction between the metal spokes and the space charge shield region that surrounds the tips. Dosimetry Radiation dosimetry in the fields of health physics and radiation protection is the **measurement**, calculation and assessment of the ionizing radiation dose absorbed by an object, usually the human body. This applies both internally, due to ingested or inhaled radioactive substances, or externall...
293. ...logical release incidents. The public dose take-up is measured and calculated from a variety of indicators such as ambient measurements of gamma radiation, radioactive particulate monitoring, and the **measurement** of levels of radioactive contamination. Other significant radiation dosimetry areas are medical, where the required treatment absorbed dose and any collateral absorbed dose is monitored, and environm...
294. ...mean energy imparted [by ionising radiation] (dE) per unit mass (dm) of material (D = dE/dm) The SI unit of absorbed dose is the gray (Gy) defined as one joule per kilogram. Absorbed dose, as a point **measurement**, is suitable for describing localised (i.e. partial organ) exposures such as tumour dose in radiotherapy. It may be used to estimate stochastic risk provided the amount and type of tissue involved is...
295. ...ground dose. It is estimated that radon is responsible for 10% of lung cancers in the United States. Because the human body is approximately 70% water and has an overall density close to 1 g/cm, dose **measurement** is usually calculated and calibrated as dose to water. National standards laboratories such as the National Physical Laboratory, UK (NPL) provide calibration factors for ionization chambers and other...
296. ...is usually calculated and calibrated as dose to water. National standards laboratories such as the National Physical Laboratory, UK (NPL) provide calibration factors for ionization chambers and other **measurement** devices to convert from the instrument's readout to absorbed dose. The standards laboratories operates as a primary standard, which is normally calibrated by absolute calorimetry (the warming of subs...
297. ...n quantities in SI and non-SI units. Although the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission permits the use of the units curie, rad, and rem alongside SI units, the European Union European units of **measurement** directives required that their use for "public health ... purposes" be phased out by 31 December 1985. Transient-voltage-suppression diode A transient-voltage-suppression (TVS) diode, also transil, t...
298. ...arrow stored in the hips and other radio-sensitive organs in the abdominal area. This allows first responders a safe way to perform necessary missions in radioactive environments. Practical radiation **measurement** using calibrated radiation protection instruments is essential in evaluating the effectiveness of protection measures, and in assessing the radiation dose likely to be received by individuals. The me...
299. ...talled on trolleys to allow easy deployment, and are associated with temporary operational situations. In the United Kingdom the HSE has issued a user guidance note on selecting the correct radiation **measurement** instrument for the application concerned. This covers all radiation instrument technologies, and is a useful comparative guide. A number of commonly used detection instrument types are listed below,...
300. ...erature of 20 °C. For tantalum capacitors a DC bias voltage of 1.1 to 1.5  V for types with a rated voltage ≤2.5 V, or 2.1 to 2.5 V for types with a rated voltage of >2.5 V, may be applied during the **measurement** to avoid reverse voltage. The capacitance value measured at the frequency of 1 kHz is about 10% less than the 100/120 Hz value. Therefore, the capacitance values of electrolytic capacitors are not di...
301. ...where the sheet resistance "R" is determined as follows. For an anisotropic material, the individual resistivity components, e.g. "ρ" or "ρ", can be calculated using the Montgomery method. To make a **measurement**, a current is caused to flow along one edge of the sample (for instance, "I") and the voltage across the opposite edge (in this case, "V") is measured. From these two values, a resistance (for this e...
302. ...s check the repeatability of the measurements. If any of the reversed polarity measurements don't agree to a sufficient degree of accuracy (usually within 3%) with the corresponding standard polarity **measurement**, then there is probably a source of error somewhere in the setup, which should be investigated before continuing. The same principle applies to the reciprocal measurements – they should agree to a su...
303. ...nique is that measurements can be made without bringing the instrument and sample into contact. Radiation that travels between a sample and an instrument will contain the spectral information, so the **measurement** can be made remotely. Remote spectral sensing is valuable in many situations. For example, measurements can be made in toxic or hazardous environments without placing an operator or instrument at ris...
304. ...on the wavelength range of interest. Most detectors are sensitive to a fairly broad spectral range and the sensor selected will often depend more on the sensitivity and noise requirements of a given **measurement**. Examples of detectors common in spectroscopy include heterodyne receivers in the microwave, bolometers in the millimeter-wave and infrared, mercury cadmium telluride and other cooled semiconductor d...
305. ...analysis of crystalline and amorphous materials. These measurements may be performed on powders, single crystals, or thin films. The high resolution and intensity of the synchrotron beam enables the **measurement** of scattering from dilute phases or the analysis of residual stress. Materials can be studied at high pressure using diamond anvil cells to simulate extreme geologic environments or to create exotic...
306. ...ential of the probe and the plasma potential at the place where the probe is located is limited to the volume inside the probe sheath boundary. The general theoretical description of a Langmuir probe **measurement** requires the simultaneous solution of the Poisson equation, the collision-free Boltzmann equation or Vlasov equation, and the continuity equation with regard to the boundary condition at the probe su...
307. ...IF) is a spectroscopic technique employed for the investigation of plasma properties by observing the fluorescence emitted when the plasma is stimulated by laser radiation. This method allows for the **measurement** of plasma parameters such as ion flow, ion temperature, magnetic field strength, and plasma density. Typically, tunable dye lasers are utilized to carry out these measurements. The pioneering applica...
308. ...uired (such as in an oscilloscope probe), a voltage divider may have capacitive elements added to compensate load capacitance. In electric power transmission, a capacitive voltage divider is used for **measurement** of high voltage. A voltage divider referenced to ground is created by connecting two electrical impedances in series, as shown in Figure 1. The input voltage is applied across the series impedances "...
309. ...and "C" elements in the proper proportions, the same division ratio can be maintained over a useful range of frequencies. This is the principle applied in compensated oscilloscope probes to increase **measurement** bandwidth. The output voltage of a voltage divider will vary according to the electric current it is supplying to its external electrical load. The effective source impedance coming from a divider of...
310. ...oltage dividers when it is necessary to accommodate high or fluctuating load currents. Voltage dividers are used for adjusting the level of a signal, for bias of active devices in amplifiers, and for **measurement** of voltages. A Wheatstone bridge and a multimeter both include voltage dividers. A potentiometer is used as a variable voltage divider in the volume control of many radios. Voltage dividers can be us...
311. ...tocols for instrumentation and data acquisition systems using Ethernet. Proposed in 2005 by Keysight and VTI Instruments, the LXI standard adapts the Ethernet and World Wide Web standards to test and **measurement** applications. The standard defines how existing standards should be used in instrumentation applications to provide a consistent feel and ensure compatibility between equipment. The LXI standard does...
312. ...with a half-life of 15.7 million years, with low-energy beta and gamma emissions. It is not used as a tracer, though its presence in living organisms, including human beings, can be characterized by **measurement** of the gamma rays. Many other isotopes have been used in specialized radiopharmacological studies. The most widely used is Ga for gallium scans. Ga is used because, like Tc, it is a gamma-ray emitter...
313. ...tallic probe of known composition is kept at a constant known temperature and held in contact with the unknown sample that is locally heated to the probe temperature, thereby providing an approximate **measurement** of the unknown Seebeck coefficient formula_5. This can help distinguish between different metals and alloys. Thermopiles are formed from many thermocouples in series, zig-zagging back and forth betwe...
314. ...tors, including inadequate stress regulation, or the presence of voids or delamination in the ground wall insulation. These issues can eventually result in machine failure. With the partial discharge **measurement**, the dielectric condition of high voltage equipment can be evaluated, and electrical treeing in the insulation can be detected and located. Partial discharge measurement can localize the damaged part...
315. ...e. With the partial discharge measurement, the dielectric condition of high voltage equipment can be evaluated, and electrical treeing in the insulation can be detected and located. Partial discharge **measurement** can localize the damaged part of an insulated system. Data collected during partial discharge testing is compared to measurement values of the same cable gathered during the acceptance-test or to fac...
316. ...eeing in the insulation can be detected and located. Partial discharge measurement can localize the damaged part of an insulated system. Data collected during partial discharge testing is compared to **measurement** values of the same cable gathered during the acceptance-test or to factory quality control standards. This allows simple and quick classification of the dielectric condition (new, strongly aged, faul...
317. ...sification of the dielectric condition (new, strongly aged, faulty) of the device under test and appropriate maintenance and repair measures may be planned and organized in advance. Partial discharge **measurement** is applicable to cables and accessories with various insulation materials, such as polyethylene or paper-insulated lead-covered (PILC) cable. Partial discharge measurement is routinely carried out to...
318. ...advance. Partial discharge measurement is applicable to cables and accessories with various insulation materials, such as polyethylene or paper-insulated lead-covered (PILC) cable. Partial discharge **measurement** is routinely carried out to assess the condition of the insulation system of rotating machines (motors and generators), transformers, and gas-insulated switchgear. A partial discharge measurement sys...
319. ...rge measurement is routinely carried out to assess the condition of the insulation system of rotating machines (motors and generators), transformers, and gas-insulated switchgear. A partial discharge **measurement** system basically consists of: A partial discharge detection system for in-service, energized electric power equipment: A number of discharge detection schemes and partial discharge measurement method...
320. ...charge measurement system basically consists of: A partial discharge detection system for in-service, energized electric power equipment: A number of discharge detection schemes and partial discharge **measurement** methods have been invented since the importance of PD was realized in the late 20th century. Partial discharge currents tend to be of short duration and have rise times in the nanosecond realm. On an...
321. ...ntifying partial discharge magnitude is in picocoulombs. The intensity of partial discharge is displayed versus time. An automatic analysis of the reflectograms collected during the partial discharge **measurement** – using a method referred to as time domain reflectometry (TDR) – allows the location of insulation irregularities. They are displayed in a partial discharge mapping format. A phase-related depiction...
322. ...prone to noise and may be consequently less sensitive. Factory quality PD tests in the field require equipment that may not be readily available, therefore other methods have been developed for field **measurement** which, while not as sensitive or accurate as standardized measurements, are substantially more convenient. By necessity field measurements have to be quick, safe and simple if they are to be widely a...
323. ...eful to detect some issues in switchgear and surface tracking on internal components, the sensitivity is not likely to be sufficient to detect issues within solid dielectric cable systems. Ultrasonic **measurement** relies on fact that the partial discharge will emit sound waves. The frequency for emissions is "white" noise in nature and therefore produces ultrasonic structure waves through the solid or liquid f...
324. ...partial discharge can be detected and located when the sensor is placed closest to the source. HFCT Method This method is ideal for detecting and determining the severity of the PD by burst interval **measurement**. The closer the bursts get to "zero voltage crossing" the more severe and critical the PD fault is. Location of the fault area is accomplished using AE described above. Electro Magnetic Field detecti...
325. ...bed above. Electro Magnetic Field detection picks up the radio waves generated by the partial discharge. As noted before the radio waves can generate TEVs on the surrounding metalwork. More sensitive **measurement**, particularly at higher voltages, can be achieved using in built UHF antennas or external antenna mounted on insulating spacers in the surrounding metalwork. Directional Coupler detection picks up th...
326. ...ula_58 and formula_59 are related via a Möbius transformation. Both formula_58 and formula_59 are expressed in complex numbers without any units. They both change with frequency so for any particular **measurement**, the frequency at which it was performed must be stated together with the characteristic impedance. formula_58 may be expressed in magnitude and angle on a polar diagram. Any actual reflection coeffi...
327. ...p-type doping of ZnO remains difficult. This problem originates from low solubility of p-type dopants and their compensation by abundant n-type impurities. This problem is observed with GaN and ZnSe. **Measurement** of p-type in "intrinsically" n-type material is complicated by the inhomogeneity of samples. Current limitations to p-doping limit electronic and optoelectronic applications of ZnO, which usually req...
328. ...gs units the rotation measure is given by: or in SI units: where The integral is taken over the entire path from the source to the observer. Faraday rotation is an important tool in astronomy for the **measurement** of magnetic fields, which can be estimated from rotation measures given a knowledge of the electron number density. In the case of radio pulsars, the dispersion caused by these electrons results in a...
329. ...dispersion caused by these electrons results in a time delay between pulses received at different wavelengths, which can be measured in terms of the electron column density, or dispersion measure. A **measurement** of both the dispersion measure and the rotation measure therefore yields the weighted mean of the magnetic field along the line of sight. The same information can be obtained from objects other than...
330. ...beam. In this case the standing wave is imposed on the beam. This type of system can be used as a sensor to track changes in frequency or phase of the resonance of the fiber. One application is as a **measurement** device for dimensional metrology. The most familiar examples of acoustic resonators are in musical instruments. Every musical instrument has resonators. Some generate the sound directly, such as the...
331. ...ollider, there are 1232 main dipole magnets used for bending the path of the particle beam, each weighing 35 metric tons. Other uses of dipole magnets to deflect moving particles include isotope mass **measurement** in mass spectrometry, and particle momentum measurement in particle physics. Such magnets are also used in traditional televisions, which contain a cathode-ray tube, which is essentially a small part...
332. ...ding the path of the particle beam, each weighing 35 metric tons. Other uses of dipole magnets to deflect moving particles include isotope mass measurement in mass spectrometry, and particle momentum **measurement** in particle physics. Such magnets are also used in traditional televisions, which contain a cathode-ray tube, which is essentially a small particle accelerator. Their magnets are called "deflecting c...
333. ...th muscular weakness, occult instability, and decreased postural control are more susceptible to injury than those with better postural control. Instability leads to an increase in postural sway, the **measurement** of the time and distance a subject spends away from an ideal center of pressure. The measurement of a subject's postural sway can be calculated through testing center of pressure (CoP), which is defi...
334. ...injury than those with better postural control. Instability leads to an increase in postural sway, the measurement of the time and distance a subject spends away from an ideal center of pressure. The **measurement** of a subject's postural sway can be calculated through testing center of pressure (CoP), which is defined as the vertical projection of center of mass on the ground. Investigators have theorized that...
335. ...mple rates are typically limited to less than one sample per second. Measurements are typically taken with the sensor held at fixed locations at approximately 10 meter increments. The main sources of **measurement** errors are magnetic impurities in the sensor, errors in the measurement of the frequency and ferrous material on the operator and the instruments, as well as rotation of the sensor as a measurement i...
336. ...surements are typically taken with the sensor held at fixed locations at approximately 10 meter increments. The main sources of measurement errors are magnetic impurities in the sensor, errors in the **measurement** of the frequency and ferrous material on the operator and the instruments, as well as rotation of the sensor as a measurement is taken. Portable instruments are also limited by sensor volume (weight)...
337. ...f measurement errors are magnetic impurities in the sensor, errors in the measurement of the frequency and ferrous material on the operator and the instruments, as well as rotation of the sensor as a **measurement** is taken. Portable instruments are also limited by sensor volume (weight) and power consumption. PPMs work in field gradients up to 3,000 nT m which is adequate from most mineral exploration work. Fo...
338. ...ones and embedded foreign objects where they were a revolutionary improvement over previous techniques. Due to the wide use of X-rays and the growing realisation of the dangers of ionizing radiation, **measurement** standards became necessary for radiation intensity and various countries developed their own, but using differing definitions and methods. Eventually, in order to promote international standardisatio...
339. ...in standardisation, had the disadvantage of not being a direct measure of the absorption of radiation, and thereby the ionisation effect, in various types of matter including human tissue, and was a **measurement** only of the effect of the X-rays in a specific circumstance; the ionisation effect in dry air. In 1940, Louis Harold Gray, who had been studying the effect of neutron damage on human tissue, together...
340. ...fects of ionising radiation on inanimate matter in a number of fields. Absorbed dose is used to rate the survivability of devices such as electronic components in ionizing radiation environments. The **measurement** of absorbed dose absorbed by inanimate matter is vital in the process of radiation hardening which improves the resistance of electronic devices to radiation effects. Absorbed dose is the physical do...
341. ...n quantities in SI and non-SI units: Although the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission permits the use of the units curie, rad, and rem alongside SI units, the European Union European units of **measurement** directives required that their use for "public health ... purposes" be phased out by 31 December 1985. Isolation transformer An isolation transformer is a transformer used to transfer electrical powe...
342. ...nter is reset to zero. If the event being measured repeats itself with sufficient stability and the frequency is considerably lower than that of the clock oscillator being used, the resolution of the **measurement** can be greatly improved by measuring the time required for an entire number of cycles, rather than counting the number of entire cycles observed for a pre-set duration (often referred to as the "reci...
343. ...it (CPU), for example, can be arranged to measure its own frequency of operation, provided it has some reference timebase to compare with. Accuracy is often limited by the available resolution of the **measurement**. The resolution of a single count is generally proportional to the timebase oscillator frequency and the gate time. Improved resolution can be obtained by several techniques such as oversampling/aver...
344. ...rfaces allow the user to send information to the frequency counter and receive information from the frequency counter. Commonly used interfaces include RS-232, USB, GPIB and Ethernet. Besides sending **measurement** results, a counter can notify users when user-defined measurement limits are exceeded. Common to many counters are the SCPI commands used to control them. A new development is built-in LAN-based cont...
345. ...and receive information from the frequency counter. Commonly used interfaces include RS-232, USB, GPIB and Ethernet. Besides sending measurement results, a counter can notify users when user-defined **measurement** limits are exceeded. Common to many counters are the SCPI commands used to control them. A new development is built-in LAN-based control via Ethernet complete with GUI's. This allows one computer to...
346. ...(1M) ||</chem> In fieldwork, the SHE is inconvenient, making the Saturated Calomel Electrode (SCE) the second most used reference. However, it contains mercury, making it the less preferred choice of **measurement**. The electrode, as shown on the right, is connected to an electrical lead. A platinum wire in a paste of Hg/HgCl is placed in a saturated 3M KCl solution. A small hole of asbestos wire is located on...
347. ...ase voltage might be the nominal voltage of a bus. Different types of quantities are labeled with the same symbol (pu); it should be clear whether the quantity is a voltage, current, or other unit of **measurement**. There are several reasons for using a per-unit system: The per-unit system was developed to make manual analysis of power systems easier. Although power-system analysis is now done by computer, resu...
348. ...ults in a blueshift in light emission. Specifically, the effect describes the phenomenon resulting from electrons and electron holes being squeezed into a dimension that approaches a critical quantum **measurement**, called the exciton Bohr radius. In current application, a quantum dot such as a small sphere confines in three dimensions, a quantum wire confines in two dimensions, and a quantum well confines only...
349. ...y ERP for any individual can vary. Therefore simply characterizing the number of ERP trials needed for a robust component response is inadequate. ERP researchers can use metrics like the standardized **measurement** error (SME) to justify the examination of between-condition or between-group differences or estimates of internal consistency to justify the examination of individual differences. Max Planck Institut...
350. ...al remaining at a site after the completion of decommissioning. Therefore, radioactive material in sealed and designated containers is not properly referred to as contamination, although the units of **measurement** might be the same. Containment is the primary way of preventing contamination from being released into the environment or coming into contact with or being ingested by humans. Being within the intend...
351. ...the human body. Other nuclides, like carbon-14, which is present in all living organisms, are continuously created by cosmic rays. These levels of radioactivity pose little bit danger but can confuse **measurement**. A particular problem is encountered with naturally generated radon gas which can affect instruments that are set to detect contamination close to normal background levels and can cause false alarms....
352. ...ation spread, and combinations of hand held survey instruments and permanently installed area monitors such as Airborne particulate monitors and area gamma monitors are often installed. Detection and **measurement** of surface contamination of personnel and plant are normally by Geiger counter, scintillation counter or proportional counter. Proportional counters and dual phosphor scintillation counters can discr...
353. ...eck that persons exiting controlled areas do not carry contamination on their bodies or clothes. In the United Kingdom, HSE has issued a user guidance note on selecting the correct portable radiation **measurement** instrument for the application concerned. This covers all radiation instrument technologies and is a useful comparative guide for selecting the correct technology for the contamination type. The UK N...
354. ...ions in simple terms. For an understanding of the different ionising effects of these radiations and the weighting factors applied, see the article on absorbed dose. Radiation monitoring involves the **measurement** of radiation dose or radionuclide contamination for reasons related to the assessment or control of exposure to radiation or radioactive substances, and the interpretation of the results. The methodo...
355. ...current stimulation is used as a "complementary" veterinary modality. Ampere balance The ampere balance (also current balance or Kelvin balance) is an electromechanical apparatus used for the precise **measurement** of the SI unit of electric current, the ampere. It was invented by William Thomson, 1st Baron Kelvin. The current to be measured is passed in series through two coils of wire, one of which is attache...
356. ...ed to calculate the numerical value of the current. The main weakness of the ampere balance is that the calculation of the current involves the dimensions of the coils. So the accuracy of the current **measurement** is limited by the accuracy with which the coils can be measured, and their mechanical rigidity. A more complicated version of an ampere balance, that removes this source of inaccuracy by a calibratio...
357. ...ment, it is possible to measure or calculate losses directly. This allows efficiency to be calculated with greater precision than the quotient of input power over output power, where relatively small **measurement** uncertainty will greatly affect the resulting calculated efficiency. In devices that primarily convert between different forms of electric power, such as transformers, or transport it from one locati...
358. ...re the spectrum of the signal measured within the IF bandwidth, a constellation diagram of the demodulated signal, error vector magnitude measurements, and a time-domain plot of the signal. Many more **measurement** results can be displayed depending on the type of modulation being used (symbol decoding, MIMO measurements, radio frame summary, etc.). Electron mobility In solid-state physics, the electron mobilit...
359. ...of temperature) that quantifies the width of localized states, and formula_62 is the dimensionality of the system. Carrier mobility is most commonly measured using the Hall effect. The result of the **measurement** is called the "Hall mobility" (meaning "mobility inferred from a Hall-effect measurement"). Consider a semiconductor sample with a rectangular cross section as shown in the figures, a current is flow...
360. ...ensionality of the system. Carrier mobility is most commonly measured using the Hall effect. The result of the measurement is called the "Hall mobility" (meaning "mobility inferred from a Hall-effect **measurement**"). Consider a semiconductor sample with a rectangular cross section as shown in the figures, a current is flowing in the "x"-direction and a magnetic field is applied in the "z"-direction. The result...
361. ...ectly, and the conductivities "σ" or "σ" are either known or can be obtained from measuring the resistivity. The mobility can also be measured using a field-effect transistor (FET). The result of the **measurement** is called the "field-effect mobility" (meaning "mobility inferred from a field-effect measurement"). The measurement can work in two ways: From saturation-mode measurements, or linear-region measurem...
362. ...sistivity. The mobility can also be measured using a field-effect transistor (FET). The result of the measurement is called the "field-effect mobility" (meaning "mobility inferred from a field-effect **measurement**"). The measurement can work in two ways: From saturation-mode measurements, or linear-region measurements. (See MOSFET for a description of the different modes or regions of operation.) In this techn...
363. ...lity can also be measured using a field-effect transistor (FET). The result of the measurement is called the "field-effect mobility" (meaning "mobility inferred from a field-effect measurement"). The **measurement** can work in two ways: From saturation-mode measurements, or linear-region measurements. (See MOSFET for a description of the different modes or regions of operation.) In this technique, for each fixe...
364. ...recombination time are determined by a regressive fit to the data. Then the Einstein relation is used to calculate the mobility. Electron mobility can be calculated from time-resolved terahertz probe **measurement**. Femtosecond laser pulses excite the semiconductor and the resulting photoconductivity is measured using a terahertz probe, which detects changes in the terahertz electric field. A proxy for charge c...
365. ...eebeck effect cannot be measured directly, since the measured voltage (by attaching a voltmeter) contains an additional voltage contribution, due to the temperature gradient and Seebeck effect in the **measurement** leads. The voltmeter voltage is always dependent on "relative" Seebeck coefficients among the various materials involved. Most generally and technically, the Seebeck coefficient is defined in terms o...
366. ...hed to a voltmeter must be placed onto the material in order to measure the thermoelectric voltage. The temperature gradient then also typically induces a thermoelectric voltage across one leg of the **measurement** electrodes. Therefore, the measured Seebeck coefficient is a contribution from the Seebeck coefficient of the material of interest and the material of the measurement electrodes. This arrangement of...
367. ...ic voltage across one leg of the measurement electrodes. Therefore, the measured Seebeck coefficient is a contribution from the Seebeck coefficient of the material of interest and the material of the **measurement** electrodes. This arrangement of two materials is usually called a thermocouple. The measured Seebeck coefficient is then a contribution from both and can be written as: Although only relative Seebeck...
368. ...e measurements only had to be performed once for all time, and for all materials; for any other material, the absolute Seebeck coefficient can be obtained by performing a relative Seebeck coefficient **measurement** against a standard material. A measurement of the Thomson coefficient formula_17, which expresses the strength of the Thomson effect, can be used to yield the absolute Seebeck coefficient through the...
369. ...e for all time, and for all materials; for any other material, the absolute Seebeck coefficient can be obtained by performing a relative Seebeck coefficient measurement against a standard material. A **measurement** of the Thomson coefficient formula_17, which expresses the strength of the Thomson effect, can be used to yield the absolute Seebeck coefficient through the relation: formula_18, provided that formul...
370. ...formula_17 is measured down to absolute zero. The reason this works is that formula_20 is expected to decrease to zero as the temperature is brought to zero—a consequence of Nernst's theorem. Such a **measurement** based on the integration of formula_21 was published in 1932, though it relied on the interpolation of the Thomson coefficient in certain regions of temperature. Superconductors have zero Seebeck coe...
371. ...ient in certain regions of temperature. Superconductors have zero Seebeck coefficient, as mentioned below. By making one of the wires in a thermocouple superconducting, it is possible to get a direct **measurement** of the absolute Seebeck coefficient of the other wire, since it alone determines the measured voltage from the entire thermocouple. A publication in 1958 used this technique to measure the absolute S...
372. ...indings of a magnetic amplifier have a higher tolerance to momentary overloads than comparable solid-state devices. The magnetic amplifier is also used as a transducer in applications such as current **measurement** and the flux gate compass. The reactor cores of magnetic amplifiers withstand neutron radiation extremely well. For this special reason magnetic amplifiers have been used in nuclear power application...
373. ...istivity of the component materials and an ionic component due to electrochemical factors such as electrolyte conductivity, ion mobility, speed of electrochemical reaction and electrode surface area. **Measurement** of the internal resistance of a battery is a guide to its condition, but may not apply at other than the test conditions. Measurement with an alternating current, typically at a frequency of , may un...
374. ...ty, speed of electrochemical reaction and electrode surface area. Measurement of the internal resistance of a battery is a guide to its condition, but may not apply at other than the test conditions. **Measurement** with an alternating current, typically at a frequency of , may underestimate the resistance, as the frequency may be too high to take into account slower electrochemical processes. Internal resistanc...
375. ...given species which is not shared by other species. LIF is useful in the study of the electronic structure of molecules and their interactions. It has also been successfully applied for quantitative **measurement** of concentrations in fields like combustion, plasma, spray and flow phenomena (such as molecular tagging velocimetry), in some cases visualizing concentrations down to nanomolar levels. LED-induced f...
376. ...ng a multiplexer or a system of voltage-to-current converters, one for each electrode, each controlled by a digital-to-analog converter. The measurements again may be taken either by a single voltage **measurement** circuit multiplexed over the electrodes or a separate circuit for each electrode. Earlier EIT systems still used an analog demodulation circuit to convert the alternating voltage to a direct current...
377. ...e is usually more than just one solution for image reconstruction of a three-dimensional area projected onto a two-dimensional plane. Another difficulty is that given the number of electrodes and the **measurement** precision at each electrode, only objects bigger than a given size can be distinguished. This explains the necessity of highly sophisticated mathematical algorithms that will address the inverse prob...
378. ...cal device supposed to aid cervical intraepithelial neoplasia location/diagnosis. The device just received EC certification in 2013. The v5r is a high performance device, based upon a voltage-voltage **measurement** technique, designed to improve process control. The high frame rate of the v5r (over 650 frames per second) means that it can be used to monitor rapidly evolving processes or dynamic flow conditions....
379. ...he curve depends on the history of changes in . Alternatively, the hysteresis can be plotted as magnetization in place of , giving an curve. These two curves are directly related since formula_1. The **measurement** may be "closed-circuit" or "open-circuit", according to how the magnetic material is placed in a magnetic circuit. With hard magnetic materials (such as sintered neodymium magnets), the detailed micr...
380. ...ssment in premature born infants. Often, EDA monitoring is combined with the recording of heart rate, respiratory rate, and blood pressure, because they are all autonomically dependent variables. EDA **measurement** is one component of modern polygraph devices, which are often used as lie detectors. The E-meter used by the Church of Scientology as part of its practice of "auditing" and "security checking", is a...
381. ...ponent of modern polygraph devices, which are often used as lie detectors. The E-meter used by the Church of Scientology as part of its practice of "auditing" and "security checking", is a custom EDA **measurement** device. External factors such as temperature and humidity affect EDA measurements, which can lead to inconsistent results. Internal factors such as medications and hydration can also change EDA measu...
382. ...onsistency with the same stimulus level. Also, the classic understanding has treated EDA as if it represented one homogeneous change in arousal across the body, but in fact different locations of its **measurement** can lead to different responses; for example, the responses on the left and right wrists are driven by different regions of the brain, providing multiple sources of arousal; thus, the EDA measured in...
383. ...ming a kind of superlattice. A necessary condition for the GMR effect in such structures is poor mutual solubility in its components (e.g., cobalt and copper). Their properties strongly depend on the **measurement** and annealing temperature. They can also exhibit inverse GMR. One of the main applications of GMR materials is in magnetic field sensors, e.g., in hard disk drives and biosensors, as well as detector...
384. ...value, the latter changes its direction. There are several storage and reading methods for the described cell. In one method, the information is stored in the sensing layer; it is read via resistance **measurement** and is erased upon reading. In another scheme, the information is kept in the fixed layer, which requires higher recording currents compared to reading currents. Tunnel magnetoresistance (TMR) is an...
385. ...int on the allowed form for formula_6, i.e., the real and imaginary part of the scattering amplitude are not independent in this case. For example, if formula_20 in formula_21 is known (say, from the **measurement** of the cross section), then formula_22 can be determined such that formula_6 is uniquely determined within the alternative formula_24. In the partial wave expansion the scattering amplitude is repres...
386. ...in Paris recommended the International Special Committee on Radio Interference (CISPR) be set up to deal with the emerging problem of EMI. CISPR subsequently produced technical publications covering **measurement** and test techniques and recommended emission and immunity limits. These have evolved over the decades and form the basis of much of the world's EMC regulations today. In 1979, legal limits were impos...
387. ...ergy fluctuations in theoretical prediction of Hawking radiation from black holes. This effect was first measured in 1947 in the Lamb–Retherford experiment on the hydrogen microwave spectrum and this **measurement** provided the stimulus for renormalization theory to handle the divergences. It was the harbinger of modern quantum electrodynamics developed by Julian Schwinger, Richard Feynman, Ernst Stueckelberg,...
388. ...renormalization, which allowed him to calculate the observed energy shift as the difference between the shift of a bound electron and the shift of a free electron. The Lamb shift currently provides a **measurement** of the fine-structure constant α to better than one part in a million, allowing a precision test of quantum electrodynamics. Forschungszentrum Jülich Forschungszentrum Jülich (FZJ) is a German nation...
389. ...ed the concept of true north in terms of magnetic declination towards the north pole, with experimentation of suspended magnetic needles and "the improved meridian determined by Shen's [astronomical] **measurement** of the distance between the pole star and true north". This was the decisive step in human history to make compasses more useful for navigation, and may have been a concept unknown in Europe for anot...
390. ...for navigation shortly after Shen's death. The preference of use for the twenty-four-point-rose compass may have arisen from Shen's finding of a more accurate astronomical meridian, determined by his **measurement** between the pole star and true north; however, it could also have been inspired by geomantic beliefs and practices. The book of the author Zhu Yu, the "Pingzhou Table Talks" published in 1119 (writte...
391. ...between cables. Local electrical regulations may restrict or place special requirements on mixing of voltage levels within one cable tray. Good design practices may segregate, for example, low level **measurement** or signal cables from trays carrying high power branch circuits, to prevent induction of noise into sensitive circuits. Since wires run in conduits or underground cannot dissipate heat as easily as i...
392. ...sent, cannot be detected due to confounding factors, errors and biases. In particular, variations in smoking prevalence or even accuracy in reporting smoking cause wide variation in excess cancer and **measurement** error bias. Thus, even a large study of many thousands of subjects with imperfect smoking prevalence information will fail to detect the effects of low level radiation than a smaller study that prope...
393. ...blesome commutator of the Thomson design. Shallenberger fell ill and was unable to refine his initial large and heavy design, although he did also develop a polyphase version. The most common unit of **measurement** on the electricity meter is the kilowatt hour ["kWh"], which is equal to the amount of energy used by a load of one kilowatt over a period of one hour, or 3,600,000 joules. Some electricity companies...
394. ...easured the amount of charge (coulombs) used, known as ampere hour meters, were used in the early days of electrification. These were dependent upon the supply voltage remaining constant for accurate **measurement** of energy usage, which was not a likely circumstance with most supplies. The most common application was in relation to special-purpose meters to monitor charge / discharge status of large batteries....
395. ...ost common application was in relation to special-purpose meters to monitor charge / discharge status of large batteries. Some meters measured only the length of time for which charge flowed, with no **measurement** of the magnitude of voltage or current being made. These are only suited for constant-load applications and are rarely used today. Electricity meters operate by continuously measuring the instantaneo...
396. ...in the disc rotating at a speed proportional to the power or rate of energy usage. The disc drives a register mechanism which counts revolutions, much like the odometer in a car, in order to render a **measurement** of the total energy used. Different phase configurations use additional voltage and current coils. The disc is supported by a spindle which has a worm gear which drives the register. The register is...
397. ...ns. In a three-phase system, at least two transducers are required to measure power when there is no neutral, or three transducers when there is a neutral. Blondel's theorem states that the number of **measurement** elements required is one less than the number of current-carrying conductors. Dry cell A dry cell is a type of electric battery, commonly used for portable electrical devices. Unlike wet cell batteri...
398. ...ctive, the process needs to start at sufficiently low formula_38. To that end, the particle is usually first cooled to the Doppler limit, then some sideband cooling cycles are applied, and finally, a **measurement** is taken or state manipulation is carried out. A more or less direct application of this scheme was demonstrated by Diedrich et al. with the caveat that the narrow quadrupole transition used for cool...
399. ...r mechanisms or non-circular gears, designed to reproduce different types of functions, either periodic (like sine or cosine functions), or single-shot (logarithm, parabolic, tangent functions etc.). **Measurement** instruments like pressure gauges, altimeters and barometers include linkage-type function generators as linearization means.  Before the advent of digital computers, mechanical function generators we...
400. ...uary 2011 and was quite black with some thermal noise on it. The first airglow image came down on 3 March 2011. This image has been converted to the human optical range (green) from its near-infrared **measurement**. This image provides a measurement of the intensity of the airglow phenomenon in the near-infrared. The range measured is from 500 to 61400 photons, with a resolution of 500 photons. The "Venus Expre...
401. ...some thermal noise on it. The first airglow image came down on 3 March 2011. This image has been converted to the human optical range (green) from its near-infrared measurement. This image provides a **measurement** of the intensity of the airglow phenomenon in the near-infrared. The range measured is from 500 to 61400 photons, with a resolution of 500 photons. The "Venus Express" spacecraft contains an infrared...
402. ...given for homogeneous anisotropic ellipsoidal bodies. The matrix above can be used with the molar refractivity equation and other data to produce density data for crystallography. Each polarizability **measurement** along with the refractive index associated with its direction will yield a direction specific density that can be used to develop an accurate three dimensional assessment of molecular stacking in the...
403. ...ate structures in a chemical equilibrium with the initial reactant. Magnetic polarizability defined by spin interactions of nucleons is an important parameter of deuterons and hadrons. In particular, **measurement** of tensor polarizabilities of nucleons yields important information about spin-dependent nuclear forces. The method of spin amplitudes uses quantum mechanics formalism to more easily describe spin dy...
404. ...made by Robert Dicke in 1957, and by several researchers starting from the late 1980s. VSL should not be confused with faster than light theories, its dependence on a medium's refractive index or its **measurement** in a remote observer's frame of reference in a gravitational potential. In this context, the "speed of light" refers to the limiting speed "c" of the theory rather than to the velocity of propagation...
405. ...nt transformers scale the large values of voltage or current to small, standardized values that are easy to handle for measuring instruments and protective relays. The instrument transformers isolate **measurement** or protection circuits from the high voltage of the primary system. A current transformer provides a secondary current that is accurately proportional to the current flowing in its primary. The curre...
406. ...switched on etc. can however still induce dangerous voltage levels due to high current slope.  The accuracy of a CT is affected by a number of factors including: Accuracy classes for various types of **measurement** and at standard loads in the secondary circuit (burdens) are defined in IEC 61869-1 as classes 0.1, 0.2s, 0.2, 0.5, 0.5s, 1 and 3. The class designation is an approximate measure of the CT's accuracy...
407. ...it. These specification diagrams show accuracy parallelograms on a grid incorporating magnitude and phase angle error scales at the CT's rated burden. Items that contribute to the burden of a current **measurement** circuit are switch-blocks, meters and intermediate conductors. The most common cause of excess burden impedance is the conductor between the meter and the CT. When substation meters are located far f...
408. ...ld be in phase. In practice, this is impossible, but, at normal power frequencies, phase shifts of a few tenths of a degree are achievable, while simpler CTs may have larger phase shifts. For current **measurement**, phase shift is immaterial as ammeters only display the magnitude of the current. However, in wattmeters, energy meters, and power factor, phase shift produces errors. For power and energy measuremen...
409. ...easurement, phase shift is immaterial as ammeters only display the magnitude of the current. However, in wattmeters, energy meters, and power factor, phase shift produces errors. For power and energy **measurement**, the errors are considered to be negligible at unity power factor but become more significant as the power factor approaches zero. The introduction of electronic power and energy meters has allowed c...
410. ...s. For example, one secondary may be used for branch overcurrent protection, while a second winding may be used in a bus differential protective scheme, and a third winding used for power and current **measurement**. Specially constructed "wideband current transformers" are also used (usually with an oscilloscope) to measure waveforms of high frequency or pulsed currents within pulsed power systems. Unlike CTs u...
411. ...like CTs used for power circuitry, wideband CTs are rated in output volts per ampere of primary current. If the burden resistance is much less than inductive impedance of the secondary winding at the **measurement** frequency then the current in the secondary tracks the primary current and the transformer provides a current output that is proportional to the measured current. On the other hand, if that condition...
412. ...ransformers are designed. IEC 61869-1 (in the past IEC 60044-1) & IEEE C57.13 (ANSI), although the Canadian and Australian standards are also recognised. Current transformers are used for protection, **measurement** and control in high-voltage electrical substations and the electrical grid. Current transformers may be installed inside switchgear or in apparatus bushings, but very often free-standing outdoor curr...
413. ...resistance-thermometer configuration uses two wires. It is only used when high accuracy is not required, as the resistance of the connecting wires is added to that of the sensor, leading to errors of **measurement**. This configuration allows use of 100 meters of cable. This applies equally to balanced bridge and fixed bridge system. For a balanced bridge usual setting is with R2 = R1, and R3 around the middle o...
414. ...r example for a Pt100, limiting to 1 mA, and 5 V, would suggest a limiting resistance of approximately R1 = R2 = 5/0.001 = 5,000 Ohms. The four-wire resistance configuration increases the accuracy of **measurement** of resistance. Four-terminal sensing eliminates voltage drop in the measuring leads as a contribution to error. To increase accuracy further, any residual thermoelectric voltages generated by differe...
415. ...accelerometers is in machine condition monitoring to reduce machines’ maintenance. Wireless and embedded technologies such as Micro-electro Mechanical system sensors offer a wireless smart vibration **measurement** of machine’s condition. Moving to the defence field, it can be applied in fence-mounted intrusion detection systems. Since MEMS sensors are able to work in a wide temperature range, they can prevent...
416. ...rify that the positioning of the sensor, based on MEMS accelerometer, remains unaltered from the installation one. MEMS accelerometers’ significant advantages also stem from their small size and high **measurement** frequency; additionally, they can be integrated with multiple sensors with different functions. Change in the local magnetic field due to the presence of ferrous metals induces a current in the burie...
417. ...C. Most modern semiconductor ATEs include multiple computer-controlled instruments to source or measure a wide range of parameters. The instruments may include device power supplies (DPS), parametric **measurement** units (PMU), arbitrary waveform generators (AWG), digitizers, digital IOs, and utility supplies. The instruments perform different measurements on the DUT, and the instruments are synchronized so tha...
418. ...ventional instruments, like an ammeter, may not be used in many ATEs due to the limited number of measurements the instrument could make, and the time it would take to use the instruments to make the **measurement**. One key advantage to using DSP to measure the parameters is time. If we have to calculate the peak voltage of an electrical signal and other parameters of the signal, then we have to employ a peak d...
419. ...ent as well as other instruments to test the other parameters. If DSP-based instruments are used, however, then a sample of the signal is made and the other parameters can be computed from the single **measurement**. Not all devices are tested equally. Testing adds costs, so low-cost components are rarely tested completely, whereas medical or high costs components (where reliability is important) are frequently...
420. ...be performed, as well as the switching hardware form factors available. Several modular electronic instrumentation platforms are currently in common use for configuring automated electronic test and **measurement** systems. These systems are widely employed for incoming inspection, quality assurance, and production testing of electronic devices and subassemblies. Industry-standard communication interfaces link...
421. ...ems are widely employed for incoming inspection, quality assurance, and production testing of electronic devices and subassemblies. Industry-standard communication interfaces link signal sources with **measurement** instruments in "rack-and-stack" or chassis-/mainframe-based systems, often under the control of a custom software application running on an external PC. The General Purpose Interface Bus (GPIB) is an...
422. ...VXI, PXI, etc.). This simplifies building and operating hybrid configurations of instruments. LXI instruments sometimes employ scripting using embedded test script processors for configuring test and **measurement** applications. Script-based instruments provide architectural flexibility, improved performance, and lower cost for many applications. Scripting enhances the benefits of LXI instruments, and LXI offer...
423. ...tecture is an open standard platform for automated test based on the VMEbus. Introduced in 1987, VXI uses all Eurocard form factors and adds trigger lines, a local bus, and other functions suited for **measurement** applications. VXI systems are based on a mainframe or chassis with up to 13 slots into which various VXI instrument modules can be installed. The chassis also provides all the power supply and coolin...
424. ...specialized for data acquisition and real-time control systems. Introduced in 1997, PXI uses the CompactPCI 3U and 6U form factors and adds trigger lines, a local bus, and other functions suited for **measurement** applications. PXI hardware and software specifications are developed and maintained by the PXI Systems Alliance. More than 50 manufacturers around the world produce PXI hardware. USB connects periphe...
425. ...2.0 specification). Because USB ports are standard features of PCs, they are a natural evolution of conventional serial port technology. However, it is not widely used in building industrial test and **measurement** systems for a number of reasons; for example, USB cables are not industrial grade, are noise sensitive, can accidentally become detached, and the maximum distance between the controller and the devic...
426. ...ommunication bus. Scripting is writing programs in a scripting language to coordinate a sequence of actions. This approach is optimized for small message transfers that are characteristic of test and **measurement** applications. With very little network overhead and a 100 Mbit/sec data rate, it is significantly faster than GPIB and 100BaseT Ethernet in real applications. The advantage of this platform is that a...
427. ...integrated multi-channel system, so users can scale their test system to fit their required channel counts cost-effectively. A system configured on this type of platform can stand alone as a complete **measurement** and automation solution, with the master unit controlling sourcing, measuring, pass/fail decisions, test sequence flow control, binning, and the component handler or prober. Support for dedicated tri...
428. ...ometry, homodyne signifies that "the reference radiation" (i.e. the local oscillator) "is derived from the same source as the signal before the modulating process". For example, in a laser scattering **measurement**, the laser beam is split into two parts. One is the local oscillator and the other is sent to the system to be probed. The scattered light is then mixed with the local oscillator on the detector. Thi...
429. ...is frequency-shifted, while in homodyne detection it has the same frequency as the radiation to be detected. See direct conversion receiver. Lock-in amplifiers are homodyne detectors integrated into **measurement** equipment or packaged as stand-alone laboratory equipment for sensitive detection and highly selective filtering of weak or noisy signals. Homodyne/lock-in detection has been one of the most commonly...
430. ...ode A glass electrode is a type of ion-selective electrode made of a doped glass membrane that is sensitive to a specific ion. The most common application of ion-selective glass electrodes is for the **measurement** of pH. The pH electrode is an example of a glass electrode that is sensitive to hydrogen ions. Glass electrodes play an important part in the instrumentation for chemical analysis, and physicochemica...
431. ...ion-selective electrode is subject to interference from (in declining order of magnitude) rubidium, caesium, ammonium, sodium, calcium, magnesium, and lithium. The most significant interference with **measurement** of potassium concentration is from the ammonium ion, which in practice is a problem where the ammonium concentration is approximately equal to or greater than the potassium concentration. Although so...
432. ...s a type of electronic oscillator that generates sine waves. It can generate a large range of frequencies. The oscillator is based on a bridge circuit originally developed by Max Wien in 1891 for the **measurement** of impedances. The bridge comprises four resistors and two capacitors. The oscillator can also be viewed as a positive gain amplifier combined with a bandpass filter that provides positive feedback....
433. ...adjusting the other arms or changing the frequency of the voltage source (see, for example, the Wheatstone bridge). The Wien bridge is one of many common bridges. Wien's bridge is used for precision **measurement** of capacitance in terms of resistance and frequency. It was also used to measure audio frequencies. The Wien bridge does not require equal values of "R" or "C". The phase of the signal at V relative...
434. ...current and voltage drop through them. Sheet resistance Sheet resistance is the resistance of a square piece of a thin material with contacts made to two opposite sides of the square. It is usually a **measurement** of electrical resistance of thin films that are uniform in thickness. It is commonly used to characterize materials made by semiconductor doping, metal deposition, resistive paste printing, and glass...
435. ...n printed onto the substrates of thick-film hybrid microcircuits. The utility of sheet resistance as opposed to resistance or resistivity is that it is directly measured using a four-terminal sensing **measurement** (also known as a four-point probe measurement) or indirectly by using a non-contact eddy-current-based testing device. Sheet resistance is invariable under scaling of the film contact and therefore c...
436. ...brid microcircuits. The utility of sheet resistance as opposed to resistance or resistivity is that it is directly measured using a four-terminal sensing measurement (also known as a four-point probe **measurement**) or indirectly by using a non-contact eddy-current-based testing device. Sheet resistance is invariable under scaling of the film contact and therefore can be used to compare the electrical propertie...
437. ...h a high-impedance voltmeter. A geometry factor needs to be applied according to the shape of the four-point array. Two common arrays are square and in-line. For more details see Van der Pauw method. **Measurement** may also be made by applying high-conductivity bus bars to opposite edges of a square (or rectangular) sample. Resistance across a square area will be measured in Ω/sq (often written as Ω/◻). For a r...
438. ...ngular) sample. Resistance across a square area will be measured in Ω/sq (often written as Ω/◻). For a rectangle, an appropriate geometric factor is added. Bus bars must make ohmic contact. Inductive **measurement** is used as well. This method measures the shielding effect created by eddy currents. In one version of this technique a conductive sheet under test is placed between two coils. This non-contact sheet...
439. ...well. This method measures the shielding effect created by eddy currents. In one version of this technique a conductive sheet under test is placed between two coils. This non-contact sheet resistance **measurement** method also allows to characterize encapsulated thin-films or films with rough surfaces.  A very crude two-point probe method is to measure resistance with the probes close together and the resistanc...
440. ...NEA, later claiming that they had witnessed the world's first thermonuclear reaction. On 23 February, a technician working for the project expressed his concerns about the claims, suggesting that the **measurement** was likely due to the accidental tilting of the spectrograph's photographic plate while the experimental run was being set up. Richter refused to re-run the experiment. Instead, a week later he order...
441. ...semble of several quantum states (here several similar 2-state atoms). This should be contrasted with a single state vector that describes a quantum system in a pure state. The expectation value of a **measurement**, formula_5, over the ensemble is formula_6. In terms of a complete set of states, formula_7, one can write Von Neumann's equation tells us how the density matrix evolves with time. In equilibrium, on...
442. ...used in many fields, including materials analysis, nuclear physics, semiconductor development and production, pharmaceutical research, and in ultra-sensitive mass spectrometers for carbon dating and **measurement** of other rare isotopes.  An electrically identical but mechanically different system is the Laddertron so named because of the physical resemblance to an articulated ladder. Induction loop An inducti...
443. ...s record 0.67 value. Some debate over this definition continues. In 1998, the operators of the JT-60 claimed to have reached "Q" = 1.25 running on D-D fuel, thus reaching extrapolated breakeven. This **measurement** was based on the JET definition of Q*. Using this definition, JET had also reached extrapolated breakeven some time earlier. If one considers the energy balance in these conditions, and the analysis...
444. ...ed to divert current away from a system or component in order to prevent overcurrent. Electrical shunts are commonly used in a variety of applications including power distribution systems, electrical **measurement** systems, automotive and marine applications. One example is in miniature Christmas lights which are wired in series. When the filament burns out in one of the incandescent light bulbs, the full line...
445. ...se instruments. R and R are connected in parallel with M1 and M2. If seen without the instruments these two resistors would be considered series resistors in this circuit. An ammeter shunt allows the **measurement** of current values too large to be directly measured by a particular ammeter. In this case, a separate shunt, a resistor of very low but accurately known resistance, is placed in parallel with a voltm...
446. ...oride. The principle of silver/silver chloride sensors operation is the conversion of ion current at the surface of human tissues to electron current to be delivered through an electrical wire to the **measurement** instrument. An important component of the operation is the electrolyte gel applied between the electrode and the tissues. The gel contains free chloride ions such that the ion charge can be carried t...
447. ...rriers except that the various wave functions are averaged in macroscopic analysis, making it impossible to observe quantum effects. The condensate wave function becomes useful in allowing design and **measurement** of macroscopic quantum effects. Similar to the discrete atomic energy levels in the Bohr model, only discrete numbers of magnetic flux quanta can penetrate a superconducting loop. In both cases, quan...
448. ...microwave drives. The fSim gate family encompasses arbitrary XY and ZZ two-qubit unitaries, including the iSWAP, the CZ, and the SWAP gates (see Quantum logic gate). Architecture-specific readout, or **measurement**, mechanisms exist. Readout of a phase qubit is explained in the qubit archetypes table above. A flux qubit state is often read using an adjustable DC-SQUID magnetometer. States may also be measured u...
449. ...with the ongoing device shrinkage in microelectronics the relative contribution of the contact resistance at metal-semiconductor interfaces in a device could not be neglected any more and an accurate **measurement** method for determining the specific contact resistivity was required. The goal of the transfer length method (TLM) is the determination of the specific contact resistivity formula_1 of a metal-semico...
450. ...lf is neglected then formula_21 arises because of the voltage drop at the metal-semiconductor interface as well as in the semiconductor substrate underneath. This means that during a total resistance **measurement**, the voltage drops exponentially (and hence also the current density) in the metallic regions (see also theory section for further explanation). As it is derived in the next section of this article t...
451. ...plied with the width of the pad formula_17. This situation is also depicted in the figure in this section where the current density distribution underneath two adjacent metal pads during a resistance **measurement** is depicted with a green colouring. All in all this means that (if the metal pad length formula_25 is much larger than the transfer length) that a relation between formula_21 and formula_1 can be sta...
452. ...tallic pad area. This methodology is also used for the derivation of the telegrapher's equations which are used to describe the behaviour of transmission lines. Because of this analogy, the described **measurement** technique in this article is often called the transmission line method. By using Kirchhoff's circuit laws the following expressions for the voltage as well as for the current within the above conside...
453. ...mely formula_74 and formula_75. Eventually two equations, describing the voltage and the current as a function of distance formula_61 are obtained by using the four stated boundary conditions: When a **measurement** is performed, it can be assumed that no current is flowing at the opposing end of each metallic pad, which in turn means that formula_79. This allows a further refinement of the equation describing t...
454. ...rent as well as for the voltage, expressions for the contact resistances corresponding to the inner and outer boundary of the gap area have to be found (compare with the schematic illustration of the **measurement** metallization in the general section). The contact resistance at the inner boundary is given by formula_114 and during a measurement the current in the middle of the circular metallic pad is zero (fo...
455. ...a have to be found (compare with the schematic illustration of the measurement metallization in the general section). The contact resistance at the inner boundary is given by formula_114 and during a **measurement** the current in the middle of the circular metallic pad is zero (formula_115). Since the modified Bessel function formula_116 tends to infinity when formula_117 tends to zero (see figures to the right...
456. ...same formula for formula_12 as given in the general section is found, which can be used for extracting formula_16 and formula_1 from experimental data: In this section a practical example of a c-TLM **measurement** is presented. By utilizing photolithography and sputter deposition, metallic c-TLM pads were deposited on the surface of a semiconductor thin film. The gap spacings of the c-TLM pads ranged between 2...
457. ...m where chosen. To obtain values for the total resistance corresponding to each c-TLM pad, current-voltage measurements were performed across each gap spacing. The plot to the left shows the recorded **measurement** data, whereat the green arrow indicates an increase of the gap length. The curves are linear (which proofs that there is an ohmic contact between the metal and semiconductor layer) and the value of t...
458. ...of linear equations can be obtained, which can be written in matrix-vector form. The vector on the left side contains the values from the resistance measurements formula_154, all of them exhibiting a **measurement** error formula_155. Therefore a measurement error vector is added to the matrix-vector product. Before proceeding the matrix-vector equation is written in a more compact form: The goal is to find valu...
459. ...can be written in matrix-vector form. The vector on the left side contains the values from the resistance measurements formula_154, all of them exhibiting a measurement error formula_155. Therefore a **measurement** error vector is added to the matrix-vector product. Before proceeding the matrix-vector equation is written in a more compact form: The goal is to find values of formula_6 and formula_66 such that th...
460. ...in dependence of the gap length together with the fitting function corresponding to the determined coefficients formula_6 and formula_66. The following GNU Octave script corresponds to the performed **measurement** series and also includes the obtained resistance values. A plot of the measurement points together with the fitting function is created and the values for formula_23, formula_16 and the specific cont...
461. ...o the determined coefficients formula_6 and formula_66. The following GNU Octave script corresponds to the performed measurement series and also includes the obtained resistance values. A plot of the **measurement** points together with the fitting function is created and the values for formula_23, formula_16 and the specific contact resistivity formula_1 are calculated as well. %vectors that contain the obtaine...
462. ...oints together with the fitting function is created and the values for formula_23, formula_16 and the specific contact resistivity formula_1 are calculated as well. %vectors that contain the obtained **measurement** data d = 20:20:200; #this vector contains the gap lengths R_row = [112.258772, 125.071437, 130.619235, 138.959548, 139.110758, 148.420932, 148.474871, 160.83128, 166.670412, 167.614947]; R = transpos...
463. ...anspose(X)*X)*transpose(X)*R; A = beta(1); B = beta(2); %Define the fitting function d_fit = 0:1:200; R_fit = A*log((r_i.+d_fit)/r_i) + B*(1./(r_i.+d_fit) + 1/r_i); %Plot the fitting function and the **measurement** values scatter(d,R, "r"); hold on; plot(d_fit, R_fit); set(gca,'fontsize',14); xlabel('Gap length [μm]'); ylabel('Total Resistance [Ohms]'); %Calculate the physical properties R_S = A*2*pi; #given in...
464. .... () represents the I-V characteristic of the Faraday cup. Differentiating Eq. () with respect to formula_20, one can obtain the relation where the value formula_38 is an invariable constant for each **measurement**. Therefore, the average velocity formula_39 of ions arriving into the Faraday cup and their average energy formula_40 can be calculated (under the assumption that we operate with a single type of ion...
465. ...The wattmeter is an instrument for measuring the electric active power (or the average of the rate of flow of electrical energy) in watts of any given circuit. Electromagnetic wattmeters are used for **measurement** of utility frequency and audio frequency power; other types are required for radio frequency measurements. A wattmeter reads the average value of the product "v(t)i(t) = p(t)", where "v(t)" is the vo...
466. ...ls are connected in series with the circuit, while the potential coil is connected in parallel. Also, on analog wattmeters, the potential coil carries a needle that moves over a scale to indicate the **measurement**. A current flowing through the current coil generates an electromagnetic field around the coil. The strength of this field is proportional to the line current and in phase with it. The potential coil...
467. ...ts), as used in standby; readings may be so inaccurate as to be useless (although they do confirm that standby power is low, rather than high). The difficulty is largely due to difficulty in accurate **measurement** of the alternating current, rather than voltage, and the relatively little need for low-power measurements. The specification for the meter should specify the reading error for different situations....
468. ...veform. In practice accuracy can be improved by connecting a fixed load such as an incandescent light bulb, adding the device in standby, and using the difference in power consumption. This moves the **measurement** out of the problematic low-power zone. Instruments with moving coils can be calibrated for direct current or power frequency currents up to a few hundred hertz. At radio frequencies (RF) a common met...
469. ...much wider range of frequencies than the signal. In the simplest case of white noise, even if the root mean square of noise is 10 times as large as the signal to be recovered, if the bandwidth of the **measurement** instrument can be reduced by a factor much greater than 10 around the signal frequency, then the equipment can be relatively insensitive to the noise. In a typical 100 MHz bandwidth (e.g. an oscillos...
470. ...of detected signal depends on the amplitude of the modulation. Generally, linewidth/modulation function has a monotonically increasing, non-linear behavior. An example application of the above signal **measurement** principles can be found in some nondispersive infrared sensors. Infrared light is band-pass filtered to a region of the frequency spectrum that is predominantly absorbed by some gas of interest. This...
471. ...that oil. When the oil is subject to a precipitant such as hexane, heptane, pyridine however, then much of the asphaltene can be subsequently extracted from the oil by gravimetric techniques. The EPR **measurement** of that extract will then be function of the polarity of the precipitant that was used. Consequently, it is preferable to apply the EPR measurement directly to the crude. In the case that the measure...
472. ...ted from the oil by gravimetric techniques. The EPR measurement of that extract will then be function of the polarity of the precipitant that was used. Consequently, it is preferable to apply the EPR **measurement** directly to the crude. In the case that the measurement is made upstream of a separator (oil production), then it may also be necessary determine the oil fraction within the crude (e.g., if a certain...
473. ...urement of that extract will then be function of the polarity of the precipitant that was used. Consequently, it is preferable to apply the EPR measurement directly to the crude. In the case that the **measurement** is made upstream of a separator (oil production), then it may also be necessary determine the oil fraction within the crude (e.g., if a certain crude contains 80% oil and 20% water, then the EPR sign...
474. ...stability. When the intrinsic response of the pH-ISFET is completed, the output voltage of the ISFET still vary with time gradually and monotonically, and this drift behavior exists during the entire **measurement** process It has been one of the serious obstacles in developing commercially viable, ISFET-based biomedical sensors. In particular, the high accuracy desired for continuous monitoring of blood pH impo...
475. ...CMOS (complementary MOS) technology. ISFET devices are widely used in biomedical applications, such as the detection of DNA hybridization, biomarker detection from blood, antibody detection, glucose **measurement** and pH sensing. The ISFET is also the basis for later BioFETs, such as the DNA field-effect transistor (DNAFET), used in genetic technology. Clark electrode The Clark electrode is an electrode that m...
476. ...entity, it does rotate or depends on how it is generated. But this does not alter what is used in the Lorentz formula, especially the v, the velocity of the charge carrier relative to the frame where **measurement** takes place and field strength varies according to relativity at any spacetime point.) Several experiments have been proposed using electrostatic measurements or electron beams to resolve the issue,...
477. ...e for the imaging of electrostatic surface potentials, scanning quantum dot microscopy, quantifies surface potentials based on their ability to gate a tip-attached quantum dot.  The quality of an SKP **measurement** is affected by a number of factors. This includes the diameter of the SKP probe, the probe to sample distance, and the material of the SKP probe. The probe diameter is important in the SKP measuremen...
478. ...easurement is affected by a number of factors. This includes the diameter of the SKP probe, the probe to sample distance, and the material of the SKP probe. The probe diameter is important in the SKP **measurement** because it affects the overall resolution of the measurement, with smaller probes leading to improved resolution. On the other hand, reducing the size of the probe causes an increase in fringing effe...
479. ...the diameter of the SKP probe, the probe to sample distance, and the material of the SKP probe. The probe diameter is important in the SKP measurement because it affects the overall resolution of the **measurement**, with smaller probes leading to improved resolution. On the other hand, reducing the size of the probe causes an increase in fringing effects which reduces the sensitivity of the measurement by incre...
480. ...n of the measurement, with smaller probes leading to improved resolution. On the other hand, reducing the size of the probe causes an increase in fringing effects which reduces the sensitivity of the **measurement** by increasing the measurement of stray capacitances. The material used in the construction of the SKP probe is important to the quality of the SKP measurement. This occurs for a number of reasons. Di...
481. ...ller probes leading to improved resolution. On the other hand, reducing the size of the probe causes an increase in fringing effects which reduces the sensitivity of the measurement by increasing the **measurement** of stray capacitances. The material used in the construction of the SKP probe is important to the quality of the SKP measurement. This occurs for a number of reasons. Different materials have differe...
482. ...cts which reduces the sensitivity of the measurement by increasing the measurement of stray capacitances. The material used in the construction of the SKP probe is important to the quality of the SKP **measurement**. This occurs for a number of reasons. Different materials have different work function values which will affect the contact potential measured. Different materials have different sensitivity to humid...
483. ...n values which will affect the contact potential measured. Different materials have different sensitivity to humidity changes. The material can also affect the resulting lateral resolution of the SKP **measurement**. In commercial probes tungsten is used, though probes of platinum, copper, gold, and NiCr has been used. The probe to sample distance affects the final SKP measurement, with smaller probe to sample d...
484. ...g lateral resolution of the SKP measurement. In commercial probes tungsten is used, though probes of platinum, copper, gold, and NiCr has been used. The probe to sample distance affects the final SKP **measurement**, with smaller probe to sample distances improving the lateral resolution and the signal-to-noise ratio of the measurement. Furthermore, reducing the SKP probe to sample distance increases the intensi...
485. ...d, and NiCr has been used. The probe to sample distance affects the final SKP measurement, with smaller probe to sample distances improving the lateral resolution and the signal-to-noise ratio of the **measurement**. Furthermore, reducing the SKP probe to sample distance increases the intensity of the measurement, where the intensity of the measurement is proportional to "1/d", where "d" is the probe to sample d...
486. ...ller probe to sample distances improving the lateral resolution and the signal-to-noise ratio of the measurement. Furthermore, reducing the SKP probe to sample distance increases the intensity of the **measurement**, where the intensity of the measurement is proportional to "1/d", where "d" is the probe to sample distance. The effects of changing probe to sample distance on the measurement can be counteracted by...
487. ...the lateral resolution and the signal-to-noise ratio of the measurement. Furthermore, reducing the SKP probe to sample distance increases the intensity of the measurement, where the intensity of the **measurement** is proportional to "1/d", where "d" is the probe to sample distance. The effects of changing probe to sample distance on the measurement can be counteracted by using SKP in constant distance mode. Th...
488. ...s the intensity of the measurement, where the intensity of the measurement is proportional to "1/d", where "d" is the probe to sample distance. The effects of changing probe to sample distance on the **measurement** can be counteracted by using SKP in constant distance mode. The Kelvin probe force microscope or Kelvin force microscope (KFM) is based on an AFM set-up and the determination of the work function is...
489. ...eracted by using SKP in constant distance mode. The Kelvin probe force microscope or Kelvin force microscope (KFM) is based on an AFM set-up and the determination of the work function is based on the **measurement** of the electrostatic forces between the small AFM tip and the sample. The conducting tip and the sample are characterized by (in general) different work functions, which represent the difference betw...
490. ...work functions is called the contact potential difference and is denoted generally with "V". An electrostatic force exists between tip and sample, because of the electric field between them. For the **measurement** a voltage is applied between tip and sample, consisting of a DC-bias "V" and an AC-voltage "V sin(ωt)" of frequency "ω". Tuning the AC-frequency to the resonant frequency of the AFM cantilever result...
491. ...e in (at least) two different ways: 1) The topography is captured in AC mode which means that the cantilever is driven by a piezo at its resonant frequency. Simultaneously the AC voltage for the KPFM **measurement** is applied at a frequency slightly lower than the resonant frequency of the cantilever. In this measurement mode the topography and the contact potential difference are captured at the same time and...
492. ...is driven by a piezo at its resonant frequency. Simultaneously the AC voltage for the KPFM measurement is applied at a frequency slightly lower than the resonant frequency of the cantilever. In this **measurement** mode the topography and the contact potential difference are captured at the same time and this mode is often called single-pass. 2) One line of the topography is captured either in contact or AC mod...
493. ...e and is stored internally. Then, this line is scanned again, while the cantilever remains on a defined distance to the sample without a mechanically driven oscillation but the AC voltage of the KPFM **measurement** is applied and the contact potential is captured as explained above. It is important to note that the cantilever tip must not be too close to the sample in order to allow good oscillation with applie...
494. ...the presence of archeological or structural features, the presence of dissolved salts, and contaminants, porosity and permeability. There are several basic methods for measuring soil resistance. The **measurement** is performed with two, three or four electrodes. The measurement methods are: pole-pole, dipole-dipole, pole-dipole, Wenner method, and the Schlumberger method. Nambu–Jona-Lasinio model In quantum fi...
495. ...ce of dissolved salts, and contaminants, porosity and permeability. There are several basic methods for measuring soil resistance. The measurement is performed with two, three or four electrodes. The **measurement** methods are: pole-pole, dipole-dipole, pole-dipole, Wenner method, and the Schlumberger method. Nambu–Jona-Lasinio model In quantum field theory, the Nambu–Jona-Lasinio model (or more precisely: "the...
496. ...ide the necessary magnetic field for efficient motor operation, contributing to the system's overall performance and reliability. Automotive sensors utilize ferrite magnets for accurate detection and **measurement** of various parameters, such as position, speed, and fluid levels. Due to ceramic ferrite magnet’s weaker magnetic fields compared to superconducting magnets, they are sometimes used in low-field or o...
497. ...the device, power supply variations, temperature changes, and the passage of time. Voltage references are used in power supplies, analog-to-digital converters, digital-to-analog converters, and other **measurement** and control systems. Voltage references vary widely in performance; a regulator for a computer power supply may only hold its value to within a few percent of the nominal value, whereas laboratory vo...
498. ...6 V to 0.7 V for silicon diodes, and from 1.6 V (red) to 4 V (violet) for visible light emitting diodes. These devices have a strong temperature dependence, which may make them useful for temperature **measurement** or for compensating bias in analog circuits. Zener diodes are also frequently used to provide a reference voltage of moderate stability and accuracy, useful for many electronic devices. An avalanche...
499. ...bda, λ = ln(10) ≈ 2.3026.  Moreover,  Virtual instrument software architecture Virtual instrument software architecture (VISA) is a widely used application programming interface (API) in the test and **measurement** (T&M) industry for communicating with instruments from a computer. VISA is an industry standard implemented by several T&M companies, such as, Anritsu, Bustec, Keysight Technologies, Kikusui, Nationa...
500. ...can calculate the imaginary part of permittivity at that energy. Using this data with Kramers–Kronig analysis, one can calculate the real part of permittivity (as a function of energy) as well. This **measurement** is made with electrons, rather than with light, and can be done with very high spatial resolution. One might thereby, for example, look for ultraviolet (UV) absorption bands in a laboratory specimen...
501. ...h respect to error in the Re and Im of impedance, since its accuracy depends mostly on the accuracy of the phase data. Volt-ampere The volt-ampere (SI symbol: VA, sometimes V⋅A or V A) is the unit of **measurement** for apparent power in an electrical circuit. It is the product of the root mean square voltage (in volts) and the root mean square current (in amperes). Volt-amperes are usually used for analyzing al...
502. ...nvention of using the volt-ampere to distinguish apparent power from real power is allowed by the SI standard. In electric power transmission and distribution, volt-ampere reactive (var) is a unit of **measurement** of reactive power. Reactive power exists in an AC circuit when the current and voltage are not in phase. The term "var" was proposed by the Romanian electrical engineer Constantin Budeanu and introdu...
503. ...ost" (unavailable to the load), due to the resistance of the conductor. Voltage drop exists in both the supply and return wires of a circuit. If the voltage drop across each resistor is measured, the **measurement** will be a significant number. That represents the energy used by the resistor. The larger the resistor, the more energy used by that resistor, and the bigger the voltage drop across that resistor. AC...
504. ...s were predicted in 1908 by Norwegian explorer and physicist Kristian Birkeland, who undertook expeditions north of the Arctic Circle to study the aurora. He rediscovered, using simple magnetic field **measurement** instruments, that when the aurora appeared the needles of magnetometers changed direction, confirming the findings of Anders Celsius and assistant Olof Hjorter more than a century before. This could...
505. ...ystems such as jet engines. Complex channel-channel modulations are also possible. Some AWG models include various detection schemes to adjust output waveforms in real time based on different kind of **measurement** results obtained for instance by signal demodulation, photon counting or triggering with an oscilloscope. The integration for signal generation and detection helps to minimize feedback times for dema...
506. ...nce may be reduced by placing a 10–30-ohm resistor in series to each of the switching outputs to limit the current flow during the gate switch. Dielectric reluctance Dielectric reluctance is a scalar **measurement** of a passive dielectric circuit (or element within that circuit) dependent on voltage and electric induction flux, and this is determined by deriving the ratio of their amplitudes. The units of diele...
507. ...ated accurately from theory alone. It is estimated from experimental measurements of the ratio of hadronic to muonic cross sections ("R") in electron–antielectron (–) collisions. As of July 2017, the **measurement** disagrees with the Standard Model by 3.5 standard deviations, suggesting physics beyond the Standard Model may be having an effect (or that the theoretical/experimental errors are not completely unde...
508. ...This method has been used extensively in electroanalysis. Through the careful and accurate fabrication of arrays of nanoelectrodes, the electrochemical instrumentation is more reliable for sensitive **measurement** that enables implementation of a range of electroanalytical techniques. There are two main types of arrangements; nanoelectrode arrays (NEAs) where the nanoelectrodes are spaced in an ordered arrange...
509. ...arth-616 and Earth-1610 versions of Jessica Drew make background cameo appearances as additional members of the Spider-Society. Dielectric complex reluctance Dielectric complex reluctance is a scalar **measurement** of a passive dielectric circuit (or element within that circuit) dependent on sinusoidal voltage and sinusoidal electric induction flux, and this is determined by deriving the ratio of their complex...
510. ...Law in ideal AC circuits. In dielectric circuits, a dielectric material has a dielectric complex reluctance equal to: Where: Magnetic complex reluctance Magnetic complex reluctance (SI Unit: H) is a **measurement** of a passive magnetic circuit (or element within that circuit) dependent on sinusoidal magnetomotive force (SI Unit: At·Wb) and sinusoidal magnetic flux (SI Unit: T·m), and this is determined by deri...
511. ...shed the Petrus Peregrinus Medal in recognition for outstanding scientific contributions in the field of magnetism. Temporal resolution Temporal resolution (TR) refers to the discrete resolution of a **measurement** with respect to time. It is defined as the amount of time needed to revisit and acquire data for the exact same location. When applied to remote sensing, this amound of time is influenced by the sens...
512. ...f. The temporal resolution is low when the revisiting delay is high and vice-versa. Temporal resolution is typically expressed in days. Often there is a trade-off between the temporal resolution of a **measurement** and its spatial resolution, due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. In some contexts, such as particle physics, this trade-off can be attributed to the finite speed of light and the fact that it t...
513. ...xel pitch on a display screen, whereas the optical resolution of a display screen is equivalent to temporal uncertainty. Note that both this form of image space and time resolutions are orthogonal to **measurement** resolution, even though space and time are also orthogonal to each other. Both an image or an oscilloscope capture can have a signal-to-noise ratio, since both also have measurement resolution. An os...
514. ...are orthogonal to measurement resolution, even though space and time are also orthogonal to each other. Both an image or an oscilloscope capture can have a signal-to-noise ratio, since both also have **measurement** resolution. An oscilloscope is the temporal equivalent of a microscope, and it is limited by temporal uncertainty the same way a microscope is limited by optical resolution. A digital sampling oscill...
515. ...l and averaging the results together. If the relationship between the 'trigger' time and the sample clock can be controlled with greater accuracy than the sampling time, then it is possible to make a **measurement** of a repetitive waveform with much higher temporal resolution than the sample period by upsampling each record before averaging. In this case the temporal uncertainty may be limited by clock jitter....
516. ...Bremsstrahlung radiation, whereby an infinite number of the virtual soft photons become real particles. However, only a finite number of these photons are detectable, the remainder falling below the **measurement** threshold. The form of the electric field at infinity, which is determined by the velocity of a point charge, defines superselection sectors for the particle's Hilbert space. This is unlike the usual...
517. ..., each responsible for a different area, defined as: The IEC describes the structure, officers, work programme, and other relevant details of CISPR on the CISPR Dashboard. CISPR's standards cover the **measurement** of radiated and conducted interference and immunity for some products. CISPR standards include: Depending on the market, CISPR's standards are a benchmark or goal for suppliers to meet OEM requiremen...
518. ...y dependent ohmic dielectric losses. For smaller components, especially for wet electrolytic capacitors, conductivity of liquid electrolytes may exceed dielectric losses. To measure these losses, the **measurement** frequency must be set. Since commercially available components offer capacitance values cover 15 orders of magnitude, ranging from pF (10 F) to some 1000 F in supercapacitors, it is not possible to c...
519. ...etween studio feeds is a much more noticeable problem, as these are likely to be carrying very different programs or material. Crosstalk is an electrical effect and can be quantified with a crosstalk **measurement**. Crosstalk measurements are made on audio systems to determine the amount of signal leaking from one channel to another. The Independent Broadcasting Authority published a weighting curve for use in...
520. ...k measurements are made on audio systems to determine the amount of signal leaking from one channel to another. The Independent Broadcasting Authority published a weighting curve for use in crosstalk **measurement** that gives due emphasis to the subjective audibility of different frequencies. In the absence of any international standards, this is still in use despite the demise of the IBA. Good crosstalk perfor...
521. ...the apparent change in mass to the volume susceptibility of the sample: formula_1  In a practical device, the whole assembly of balance and magnet is enclosed in a glass box to ensure that the weight **measurement** is not affected by air currents. The sample can also be enclosed in a thermostat in order to make measurements at different temperatures. Since it requires a large and powerful electromagnet, the Gou...
522. ...example, a 3.5M KCl electrolyte solution has an increased reference potential of +0.250 V vs. SHE at 25°C while a 1 M solution has a +0.283 V potential at the same temperature. The SCE is used in pH **measurement**, cyclic voltammetry and general aqueous electrochemistry. This electrode and the silver/silver chloride reference electrode work in the same way. In both electrodes, the activity of the metal ion is...
523. ...elluric (MMT) method, uses instruments and sensors in pressure housings deployed by ship into shallow coastal areas where water is less than 300 m deep. A derivative of MMT is offshore single-channel **measurement** of the vertical magnetic field only (the Hz, or "tipper"), which eliminates the need for telluric measurements and horizontal magnetic measurements. MT exploration surveys are done to acquire resisti...
524. ...tegrated circuits and transistors. Electron scattering has many applications ranging from the use of swift electron in electron microscopes to very high energies for hadronic systems, that allows the **measurement** of the distribution of charges for nucleons and nuclear structure. The scattering of electrons has allowed us to understand that protons and neutrons are made up of the smaller elementary subatomic p...
525. ...o 1.5 THz. Special types of network analyzers can also cover lower frequency ranges down to 1 Hz. These network analyzers can be used, for example, for the stability analysis of open loops or for the **measurement** of audio and ultrasonic components. The two basic types of network analyzers are A VNA is a form of RF network analyzer widely used for RF design applications. A VNA may also be called a gain–phase m...
526. ...cture of a network analyzer involves a signal generator, a test set, one or more receivers and display. In some setups, these units are distinct instruments. Most VNAs have two test ports, permitting **measurement** of four S-parameters formula_1, but instruments with more than two ports are available commercially. The network analyzer needs a test signal, and a signal generator or signal source will provide one...
527. ...eference channel may go to a diode detector (receiver) whose output is sent to the signal generator's automatic level control. The result is better control of the signal generator's output and better **measurement** accuracy. In a VNA, the reference channel goes to the receivers; it is needed to serve as a phase reference. Directional couplers or two resistor power dividers are used for signal separation. Some m...
528. ...est SNA will have a single test port, but more accurate measurements are made when a reference port is also used. The reference port will compensate for amplitude variations in the test signal at the **measurement** plane. It is possible to share a single detector and use it for both the reference port and the test port by making two measurement passes. For the VNA, the receiver measures both the magnitude and t...
529. ...will compensate for amplitude variations in the test signal at the measurement plane. It is possible to share a single detector and use it for both the reference port and the test port by making two **measurement** passes. For the VNA, the receiver measures both the magnitude and the phase of the signal. It needs a reference channel (R) to determine the phase, so a VNA needs at least two receivers. The usual me...
530. ...e the measurements at a lower frequency. The phase may be measured with a quadrature detector. A VNA requires at least two receivers, but some will have three or four receivers to permit simultaneous **measurement** of different parameters. There are some VNA architectures (six-port) that infer phase and magnitude from just power measurements. With the processed RF signal available from the receiver / detector s...
531. ...nd amplitude display. The instantaneous value of phase includes both the temporal and spatial parts, but the former is removed by virtue of using 2 test channels, one as a reference and the other for **measurement**. When SW1 is set to position 2, the test signals are applied to P2, the reference is measured by RX REF2, reflections from P2 are coupled off by DC2 and measured by RX TEST2 and signals leaving P1 ar...
532. ...matic errors can be corrected. Random errors, such as connector repeatability cannot be corrected by the user calibration. However, some portable vector network analyzers, designed for lower accuracy **measurement** outside using batteries, do attempt some correction for temperature by measuring the internal temperature of the network analyzer. The first steps, prior to starting the user calibration are: There a...
533. ...The first steps, prior to starting the user calibration are: There are several different methods of calibration. The simplest calibration that can be performed on a network analyzer is a transmission **measurement**. This gives no phase information, and so gives similar data to a scalar network analyzer. The simplest calibration that can be performed on a network analyzer, whilst providing phase information is a...
534. ...uctor, and a probe measures the near field emission. A signal generator, serving as a voltage source, is connected to an amplifier. The output of the amplifier is then connected to the inductor under **measurement**. To monitor and control the current flowing through the inductor, a current clamp meter is clamped around the conducting wire. An oscilloscope connected to the current clamp to measures the current w...
535. ...on of such systems. First, the waveform is consistently detectable and is elicited in response to precise stimuli. The P300 waveform can also be evoked in nearly all subjects with little variation in **measurement** techniques, which may help simplify interface designs and permit greater usability. The speed at which an interface is able to operate depends on how detectable the signal is despite "noise." One neg...
536. ...n 2000 revealed that 4 paralyzed participants (one with complete paraplegia, three with incomplete paraplegia) performed as successfully as 10 normal participants. Scientific research often relies on **measurement** of the P300 to examine event related potentials, especially with regard to decision making. Because cognitive impairment is often correlated with modifications in the P300, the waveform can be used a...
537. ...precision only after employing methods which eliminate signal contributions due to applied mechanical stress. Piezoresistors are resistors made from a piezoresistive material and are usually used for **measurement** of mechanical stress. They are the simplest form of piezoresistive devices. Piezoresistors can be fabricated using wide variety of piezoresistive materials. The simplest form of piezoresistive silico...
538. ...is foundation of accumulated knowledge to, in 1859, create an apparatus involving the interaction of a stream of water with the Earth's static electric field to cause charge separation and subsequent **measurement** of charge to make atmospheric electricity measurements. Investigations of the Kelvin electrostatic generator under various controlled conditions showed that it operated with tap water, distilled wate...
539. ...e and aims to determine the subsurface chargeability properties. Electrical resistivity measurements can be used for identification and quantification of depth of groundwater, detection of clays, and **measurement** of groundwater conductivity. The technique evolved from techniques of electrical prospecting that predate digital computers, where layers or anomalies were sought rather than images. Early work on th...
540. ...servation as "the magnetic polarization of metals and ores produced by a temperature difference." This Seebeck effect became the basis of the thermocouple, which is still considered the most accurate **measurement** of temperature today. The converse Peltier effect was seen over a decade later when a current was run through a circuit with two dissimilar metals, resulting in a temperature difference between the m...
541. ...n tunneling (a mix between Zener tunneling and Klein tunneling) is also utilized. In June 2023, researchers at the  Ecole Normale Supérieure in Paris and their collaborators reported the quantitative **measurement** of the Schwinger-pair production rate in doped graphene transistors in a 1D geometry. Electrical steel Electrical steel (E-steel, lamination steel, silicon electrical steel, silicon steel, relay stee...
542. ...the results?" Answering this question involves three steps: comparison between simulation results and analytical formulation, cross-comparison between codes, and comparison of simulation results with **measurement**. For example, assessing the value of the radar cross section of a plate with the analytical formula: formula_7 where A is the surface of the plate and formula_8 is the wavelength. The next curve pres...
543. ...from method of moments and asymptotic methods in their validity domains. The final validation step is made by comparison between measurements and simulation. For example, the RCS calculation and the **measurement** of a complex metallic object at 35 GHz. The computation implements GO, PO and PTD for the edges. Validation processes can clearly reveal that some differences can be explained by the differences betw...
544. ...s technologies are critical elements of the neighborhood network, aggregating a mesh configuration of up to thousands of meters for back haul to the utility's IT headquarters. The network between the **measurement** devices and business systems allows the collection and distribution of information to customers, suppliers, utility companies, and service providers. This enables these businesses to participate in d...
545. ...which transports the commands from the supplier to the smart meter, performs an additional anomaly check on commands issued (and signed) by the energy supplier. As Smart Meter devices are Intelligent **Measurement** Devices which periodically record the measured values and send the data encrypted to the Service Provider, therefore in Switzerland these devices need to be evaluated by an evaluation Laboratory, and...
546. ...comes thinner with fewer atomic strands in it. Each time the neck reconfigures, which happens abruptly, a step-like decrease of the conductance can be observed. This picture inferred from the current **measurement** has been confirmed by "in-situ" TEM imaging of the breaking process combined with current measurement. In a second regime, when the wire is pulled further apart, the conductance collapses to values l...
547. ..., a step-like decrease of the conductance can be observed. This picture inferred from the current measurement has been confirmed by "in-situ" TEM imaging of the breaking process combined with current **measurement**. In a second regime, when the wire is pulled further apart, the conductance collapses to values less than the quantum of conductance. This is known as the tunneling regime where electrons tunnel thro...
548. ...nts in electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) and antenna radiation patterns require that spurious signals arising from the test setup, including reflections, are negligible to avoid the risk of causing **measurement** errors and ambiguities. One of the most effective types of RAM comprises arrays of pyramid-shaped pieces, each of which is constructed from a suitably lossy material. To work effectively, all interna...
549. ...ntly used in measurements of electrochemical systems such as electroplating and for battery capacity where the commonly known nominal voltage is understood. A "milliampere second" (mA⋅s) is a unit of **measurement** used in X-ray imaging, diagnostic imaging, and radiation therapy. It is equivalent to a "millicoulomb". This quantity is proportional to the total X-ray energy produced by a given X-ray tube operated...
550. ...reading (at "centre scale" only) on resistance ranges. Its maximum current draw of 50 μA at full-scale deflection (corresponding to 20,000 ohms per volt) is sufficient in most cases to reduce voltage **measurement** error due to circuit loading by the meter to an acceptable level. The AVOmeter design incorporates an electrical interlock which prevents AC & DC ranges being selected simultaneously. For example, no...
551. ...within all rock, soil, and water. The Natural uranium (U) consists of three isotopes, Uranium-238 (U), which is 99.28% natural abundance, the Uranium-235 (U), which is subject of interest for energy **measurement** available only at 0.71%, and uranium-234, with proportion of 0.0054%. The Uranium-235 is fissile but at 0.71% it cannot sustain the chain reaction in a nuclear weapon environment, which requires the...
552. ...sky and thunder as well as king of the gods. Electrostatic fieldmeter An electrostatic fieldmeter, also called a static meter is a tool used in the static control industry. It is used for non-contact **measurement** of electrostatic charge on an object. It measures the force between the induced charges in a sensor and the charge present on the surface of an object. This force is converted to volts, measuring bot...
553. ...g probe is placed close (1 mm to 5 mm) to the surface to be measured and the probe body is driven to the same potential as the measured unknown by an electronic circuit. This achieves a high accuracy **measurement** that is virtually insensitive to variations in probe-to-surface distances. The technique also prevents arc-over between the probe and measured surface when measuring high voltages. The operation of a...
554. ...measured variable which is a function of the background electrostatic field.  Beside static charge control in electrostatic discharge (ESD) sensitive environments, another possible application is the **measurement** of the atmospheric electric field, if sufficient sensitivity is available. Frost diagram A Frost diagram or Frost–Ebsworth diagram is a type of graph used by inorganic chemists in electrochemistry to...
555. ...rational, coherent, consistent, and international system of units for electrical quantities. Telegraphers and other early users of electricity in the 19th century needed a practical standard unit of **measurement** for resistance. Resistance was often expressed as a multiple of the resistance of a standard length of telegraph wires; different agencies used different bases for a standard, so units were not readi...
556. ...lamp In electrical and electronic engineering, a current clamp, also known as current probe, is an electrical device with jaws which open to allow clamping around an electrical conductor. This allows **measurement** of the current in a conductor without the need to make physical contact with it, or to disconnect it for insertion through the probe.  Current clamps are typically used to read the magnitude of alter...
557. ...ctricians, sometimes with the clamp incorporated into a general purpose multimeter. It is simple to measure very high currents (hundreds of amperes) with the appropriate current transformer. Accurate **measurement** of low currents (a few milliamperes) with a current transformer clamp is more difficult. The range of any given meter can be extended by passing the conductor through the jaw multiple times. For exam...
558. ...rtion to the strength of the magnetic field, and thus produces a meter indication proportional to the current. This type of ammeter can measure both AC and DC currents and provides a true RMS current **measurement** of non-sinusoidal or distorted AC waveforms. Interchangeable meter movements can be installed in the clamping assembly to provide various full-scale current values up to 1000 amperes. The iron vane i...
559. ...s synonymous with stopping power), typically expressed in units of MeV·cm/mg of material, the units used for mass stopping power (the material in question is usually Si for MOS devices). The units of **measurement** arise from a combination of the energy lost by the particle to the material per unit path length (MeV/cm) divided by the density of the material (mg/cm). "Soft errors" of electronic devices due to co...
560. ...type, spikes, strings, bow-ties and vented trees. The two most commonly found tree types are bow-tie trees and vented trees. Electrical trees can be detected and located by means of partial discharge **measurement**. As the measurement values of this method allow no absolute interpretation, data collected during the procedure is compared to measurement values of the same cable gathered during the test. This allo...
561. ...s, bow-ties and vented trees. The two most commonly found tree types are bow-tie trees and vented trees. Electrical trees can be detected and located by means of partial discharge measurement. As the **measurement** values of this method allow no absolute interpretation, data collected during the procedure is compared to measurement values of the same cable gathered during the test. This allows simple and quick...
562. ...es can be detected and located by means of partial discharge measurement. As the measurement values of this method allow no absolute interpretation, data collected during the procedure is compared to **measurement** values of the same cable gathered during the test. This allows simple and quick classification of the dielectric condition (new, strongly aged, faulty) of the cable under test. To measure the level o...
563. ...aged, faulty) of the cable under test. To measure the level of partial discharges, 50–60 Hz or sometimes a sinusoidal 0.1 Hz VLF (very low frequency) voltage may be used. The turn-on voltage, a major **measurement** criterion, can vary by over 100% between 50 and 60 Hz measurements as compared to 0.1 Hz VLF (very low frequency) Sinusoidal AC source at the power frequency (50–60 Hz) as mandated by IEEE standards...
564. ...Hz) as mandated by IEEE standards 48, 404, 386, and ICEA standards S-97-682, S-94-649 and S-108-720. Modern PD-detection systems employ digital signal processing software for analysis and display of **measurement** results. An analysis of the PD signals collected during the measurement with the proper equipment can allow for the vast majority of location of insulation defects. Usually they are displayed in a pa...
565. ...-682, S-94-649 and S-108-720. Modern PD-detection systems employ digital signal processing software for analysis and display of measurement results. An analysis of the PD signals collected during the **measurement** with the proper equipment can allow for the vast majority of location of insulation defects. Usually they are displayed in a partial discharge mapping format. Additional useful information about the...
566. ...ey are displayed in a partial discharge mapping format. Additional useful information about the device under test can be derived from a phase related depiction of the partial discharges. A sufficient **measurement** report contains: Plasmasphere The plasmasphere, or inner magnetosphere, is a region of the Earth's magnetosphere consisting of low-energy (cool) plasma. It is located above the ionosphere. The outer...
567. ...al becomes metallic and eventually superconducting at low temperatures. Unfortunately C crystals are not stable at ambient atmosphere. They are grown and investigated in closed capsules, limiting the **measurement** techniques possible. The highest transition temperature measured so far was T = 33 K for CsRbC.The highest measured transition temperature of an organic superconductor was found in 1995 in CsC pressu...
568. ...sion cracking, and mechanical erosion processes. A common feature of this 1/f Poisson spectra is that it differs from the "white" Gaussian noise, in which accuracy increases as the square root of the **measurement** time.  The technique considers the reactions occurring at the metal–solution interface and suggests two currents flowing on each electrode as a result of the anodic and cathodic reactions. Once regar...
569. ...US$10. Some more expensive models for home use have remote display units. In the US wattmeters can often also be borrowed from local power authorities or a local public library. Although accuracy of **measurement** of low AC current and quantities derived from it, such as power, is often poor, these devices are nevertheless indicative of standby power, if sensitive enough to register it. Some home power monitor...
570. ...it. Some home power monitors simply specify an error figure such as 0.2%, without specifying the parameter subject to this error (e.g., voltage, easy to measure), and without qualification. Errors of **measurement** at the low standby powers used from about 2010 (i.e., less than a few watts) may be a very large percentage of the actual value—accuracy is poor. Modification of such meters to read standby power has...
571. ...ve wattmeters may be subject to significant inaccuracy at low current (power). They are often subject to other errors due to their mode of operation: Laboratory-grade equipment designed for low power **measurement**, which costs from several hundreds of US dollars and is much larger than simple domestic meters, can measure power down to very low values without any of these effects. The US IEC 62301 recommendatio...
572. ...tion for measurements of active power is that power of 0.5 W or greater shall be made with an uncertainty of 2%. Measurements of less than 0.5 W shall be made with an uncertainty of 0.01 W. The power **measurement** instrument shall have a resolution of 0.01 W or better. Even with laboratory-grade equipment measurement of standby power has its problems. There are two basic ways of connecting equipment to measure...
573. ...of 2%. Measurements of less than 0.5 W shall be made with an uncertainty of 0.01 W. The power measurement instrument shall have a resolution of 0.01 W or better. Even with laboratory-grade equipment **measurement** of standby power has its problems. There are two basic ways of connecting equipment to measure power; one measures the correct voltage, but the current is wrong; the error is negligibly small for rel...
574. ...uld be overestimated by over 50%. The other connection gives a small error in the voltage but accurate current, and reduces the error at low power by a factor of 5000. A laboratory meter intended for **measurement** of higher powers may be susceptible to this error. Another issue is the possibility of measuring equipment damage if in a very sensitive range capable of measuring a few milliamps; if the device bein...
575. ...a transformer at the end of a winding marked with a dot, will tend to produce current exiting other windings at their dotted ends. Maintaining proper polarity is important in power system protection, **measurement** and control systems. A reversed instrument transformer winding may defeat protective relays, give inaccurate power and energy measurements, or result in display of negative power factor. Reversed con...
576. ...e, but is not considered sufficiently accurate for recording of single measurements of individuals. Consumer-grade devices for measuring BIA have not been found to be sufficiently accurate for single-**measurement** use and are better suited for use to measure changes in body composition over time for individuals. The two-electrode, e.g., foot-to-foot or hand-to-hand measurement, is generally found to be less ac...
577. ...sufficiently accurate for single-measurement use and are better suited for use to measure changes in body composition over time for individuals. The two-electrode, e.g., foot-to-foot or hand-to-hand **measurement**, is generally found to be less accurate than 4-electrode methods (tetra-polar technique in which the current circuit is provided by a pair of distal electrodes with impedance measured, as the voltage...
578. ...stal electrodes with impedance measured, as the voltage drop between a separate pair of proximal electrodes). Multiple electrodes, typically eight, may be used located on the hands and feet, allowing **measurement** of the impedance of the individual body segments arms, legs and torso. The advantage of the multiple electrode devices is that body segments may be measured simultaneously without the need to relocat...
579. ...ed the original studies using electrical impedance measurements as an index of total body water (TBW), using two subcutaneously inserted needles. In 1969, Hoffer concluded that a whole-body impedance **measurement** could predict total body water. The equation (the squared value of height divided by impedance measurements of the right half of the body) showed a correlation coefficient of 0.92 with total body wat...
580. ...in series (representing the intracellular path the resistance that of intracellular fluid and the capacitor the cell membrane). This results in a change in impedance versus the frequency used in the **measurement**. Whole-body impedance is generally measured from the wrist to the ipsilateral ankle and uses either two (rarely) or four (overwhelmingly) electrodes. In the 2-electrode (bipolar) configuration a smal...
581. ...ge is measured between the same, whereas in the tetrapolar arrangement resistance is measured between as separate pair of proximally located electrodes. The tetrapolar arrangement is preferred, since **measurement** is not confounded by the impedance of the skin–electrode interface In bioelectrical impedance analysis in humans, an estimate of the phase angle can be obtained and is based on changes in resistance...
582. ...le can be obtained and is based on changes in resistance and reactance as alternating current passes through tissues, which causes a phase shift. A phase angle therefore exists for all frequencies of **measurement** although conventionally in BIA it is phase angle at a measurement frequency of 50 kHz that is considered. The measured phase angle therefore depends on several biological factors. Phase angle is grea...
583. ...ance as alternating current passes through tissues, which causes a phase shift. A phase angle therefore exists for all frequencies of measurement although conventionally in BIA it is phase angle at a **measurement** frequency of 50 kHz that is considered. The measured phase angle therefore depends on several biological factors. Phase angle is greater in men than women and decreases with increasing age. Ewald sum...
584. ...romagnetic compatibility (EMC) testing of electronic equipment, where allowed levels of electromagnetic interference (EMI), also called radio frequency interference (RFI), are given with reference to **measurement** by a specified quasi-peak detector. This was originally done because the quasi-peak detector was believed to better indicate the subjective annoyance level experienced by a listener hearing impulsive...
585. ...lieved to better indicate the subjective annoyance level experienced by a listener hearing impulsive interference to an AM radio station. Over time standards incorporating quasi-peak detectors as the **measurement** device were extended to frequencies up to 1 GHz, although there may not be any justification beyond previous practice for using the quasi-peak detector to measure interference to signals other than A...
586. ...of 9 kHz. The quasi-peak detector applied to most radiated emissions measurements (30–1000 MHz) has an attack time of 1 ms, a decay time 550 ms and an IF filter bandwidth of 120 kHz. In audio quality **measurement**, quasi-peak rectifiers are specified in several standards. For example ITU-R 468 noise weighting uses a special rectifier incorporating two cascaded charging time constants. The PPM or peak programme...
587. ...rporating two cascaded charging time constants. The PPM or peak programme meter used to measure programme levels is actually a quasi-peak reading meter, again with precisely defined dynamics. Flutter **measurement** also involves a standardised quasi-peak reading meter. In every case the dynamics are chosen to reflect the sensitivity of human hearing to brief sounds, ignoring those so brief that we do not percei...
588. ...rent, called the "conductance", and determines the "imaginary" part of the current and is the "capacitance". is the complex impedance. When a parallel-plate capacitor is filled with a dielectric, the **measurement** of dielectric properties of the medium is based upon the relation: formula_98 where a single "prime" denotes the real part and a double "prime" the imaginary part, is the complex impedance with the d...
589. ...e "prime" the imaginary part, is the complex impedance with the dielectric present, is the so-called "complex" capacitance with the dielectric present, and is the capacitance without the dielectric. (**Measurement** "without the dielectric" in principle means measurement in free space, an unattainable goal inasmuch as even the quantum vacuum is predicted to exhibit nonideal behavior, such as dichroism. For pract...
590. ...ith the dielectric present, is the so-called "complex" capacitance with the dielectric present, and is the capacitance without the dielectric. (Measurement "without the dielectric" in principle means **measurement** in free space, an unattainable goal inasmuch as even the quantum vacuum is predicted to exhibit nonideal behavior, such as dichroism. For practical purposes, when measurement errors are taken into ac...
591. ...tric" in principle means measurement in free space, an unattainable goal inasmuch as even the quantum vacuum is predicted to exhibit nonideal behavior, such as dichroism. For practical purposes, when **measurement** errors are taken into account, often a measurement in terrestrial vacuum, or simply a calculation of "C", is sufficiently accurate.) Using this measurement method, the dielectric constant may exhibit...
592. ...an unattainable goal inasmuch as even the quantum vacuum is predicted to exhibit nonideal behavior, such as dichroism. For practical purposes, when measurement errors are taken into account, often a **measurement** in terrestrial vacuum, or simply a calculation of "C", is sufficiently accurate.) Using this measurement method, the dielectric constant may exhibit a resonance at certain frequencies corresponding t...
593. ...as dichroism. For practical purposes, when measurement errors are taken into account, often a measurement in terrestrial vacuum, or simply a calculation of "C", is sufficiently accurate.) Using this **measurement** method, the dielectric constant may exhibit a resonance at certain frequencies corresponding to characteristic response frequencies (excitation energies) of contributors to the dielectric constant. T...
594. ...s both types of carrier respond. At optical frequencies, in semiconductors the dielectric constant exhibits structure related to the band structure of the solid. Sophisticated modulation spectroscopy **measurement** methods based upon modulating the crystal structure by pressure or by other stresses and observing the related changes in absorption or reflection of light have advanced our knowledge of these materi...
595. ...ssociated with determining the precise value of a variable capacitance, sometimes a fixed-value capacitor will be installed and more than one resistor will be made variable. It cannot be used for the **measurement** of high Q values. It is also unsuited for the coils with low Q values, less than one, because of balance convergence problem. Its use is limited to the measurement of low Q values from 1 to 10. The f...
596. ...variable. It cannot be used for the measurement of high Q values. It is also unsuited for the coils with low Q values, less than one, because of balance convergence problem. Its use is limited to the **measurement** of low Q values from 1 to 10. The frequency of the AC current used to assess the unknown inductor should match the frequency of the circuit the inductor will be used in - the impedance and therefore...
597. ...n bridge over simpler bridge types is warranted in circumstances where either the mutual inductance between the load and the known bridge entities, or stray electromagnetic interference, distorts the **measurement** results. The capacitive reactance in the bridge will exactly oppose the inductive reactance of the load when the bridge is balanced, allowing the load's resistance and reactance to be reliably determ...
598. ...precision of the excitation signal directly relates to the sensor accuracy and stability. Linearization is necessary when sensors produce voltage signals that are not linearly related to the physical **measurement**. Linearization is the process of interpreting the signal from the sensor and can be done either with signal conditioning or through software. Signal isolation may be used to pass the signal from the...
599. ...t a lower intensity, and emits polarized light. Reflected light is analyzed showing a noticeable difference between a 0 or 1. The magneto-optic Kerr effect was discovered in 1877 by John Kerr. Phasor **measurement** unit A phasor measurement unit (PMU) is a device used to estimate the magnitude and phase angle of an electrical phasor quantity (such as voltage or current) in the electricity grid using a common ti...
600. ...mits polarized light. Reflected light is analyzed showing a noticeable difference between a 0 or 1. The magneto-optic Kerr effect was discovered in 1877 by John Kerr. Phasor measurement unit A phasor **measurement** unit (PMU) is a device used to estimate the magnitude and phase angle of an electrical phasor quantity (such as voltage or current) in the electricity grid using a common time source for synchronizat...
601. ...zed real-time measurements of multiple remote points on the grid. PMUs are capable of capturing samples from a waveform in quick succession and reconstructing the phasor quantity, made up of an angle **measurement** and a magnitude measurement. The resulting measurement is known as a synchrophasor. These time synchronized measurements are important because if the grid’s supply and demand are not perfectly matche...
602. ...f multiple remote points on the grid. PMUs are capable of capturing samples from a waveform in quick succession and reconstructing the phasor quantity, made up of an angle measurement and a magnitude **measurement**. The resulting measurement is known as a synchrophasor. These time synchronized measurements are important because if the grid’s supply and demand are not perfectly matched, frequency imbalances can...
603. ...the grid. PMUs are capable of capturing samples from a waveform in quick succession and reconstructing the phasor quantity, made up of an angle measurement and a magnitude measurement. The resulting **measurement** is known as a synchrophasor. These time synchronized measurements are important because if the grid’s supply and demand are not perfectly matched, frequency imbalances can cause stress on the grid, w...
604. ...y high temporal resolution, up to 120 measurements per second. This helps engineers in analyzing dynamic events in the grid which is not possible with traditional SCADA measurements that generate one **measurement** every 2 or 4 seconds. Therefore, PMUs equip utilities with enhanced monitoring and control capabilities and are considered to be one of the most important measuring devices in the future of power sys...
605. ...teus Steinmetz presented a paper on simplified mathematical description of the waveforms of alternating current electricity. Steinmetz called his representation a phasor. With the invention of phasor **measurement** units (PMU) in 1988 by Dr. Arun G. Phadke and Dr. James S. Thorp at Virginia Tech, Steinmetz’s technique of phasor calculation evolved into the calculation of real time phasor measurements that are s...
606. ...hat customer equipment expects (as seen through metrics such as frequency, phase synchronicity, and voltage). If this is not done, as Rob Landley puts it, "people's light bulbs start exploding." This **measurement** function is what these devices do. A PMU can measure 50/60 Hz AC waveforms (voltages and currents) typically at a rate of 48 samples per cycle making them effective at detecting fluctuations in volta...
607. ...ost cases PMUs only measure the voltage magnitude and the phase angle, and assume that the angular frequency is a constant. Because this frequency is assumed constant, it is disregarded in the phasor **measurement**. PMU’s measurements are a mathematical fitting problem, where the measurements are being fit to a sinusoidal curve. Thus, when the waveform is non-sinusoidal, the PMU is unable to fit it exactly. The...
608. ...stribution systems (between 12kV and 500kV while distribution runs at 12kV and lower). This means that transmission systems can have less precise measurements without compromising the accuracy of the **measurement**. However, distribution systems need more precision in order to improve accuracy, which is the benefit of uPMUs. uPMUs decrease the error of the phase angle measurements on the line from ±1° to ±0.05°...
609. ...he error of the phase angle measurements on the line from ±1° to ±0.05°, giving a better representation of the true angle value. The “micro” term in front of the PMU simply means it is a more precise **measurement**. A phasor is a complex number that represents both the magnitude and phase angle of the sine waves found in electricity. Phasor measurements that occur at the same time over any distance are called "...
610. ...hasor" to be used interchangeably they actually represent two separate technical meanings. A synchrophasor is the metered value whereas the PMU is the metering device. In typical applications, phasor **measurement** units are sampled from widely dispersed locations in the power system network and synchronized from the common time source of a Global Positioning System (GPS) radio clock. Synchrophasor technology p...
611. ...line congestion (over-loading), protection, and control will therefore be improved on a multiple region scale (US, Canada, Mexico) through interconnecting ISO's.  A phasor network consists of phasor **measurement** units (PMUs) dispersed throughout the electricity system, Phasor Data Concentrators (PDC) to collect the information and a Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition (SCADA) system at the central contr...
612. ...y system, Phasor Data Concentrators (PDC) to collect the information and a Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition (SCADA) system at the central control facility. Such a network is used in Wide Area **Measurement** Systems (WAMS), the first of which began in 2000 by the Bonneville Power Administration. The complete network requires rapid data transfer within the frequency of sampling of the phasor data. GPS tim...
613. ...cal accuracy of synchronization better than 1 microsecond. "Clocks need to be accurate to ± 500 nanoseconds to provide the one microsecond time standard needed by each device performing synchrophasor **measurement**." For 60 Hz systems, PMUs must deliver between 10 and 30 synchronous reports per second depending on the application. The PDC correlates the data, and controls and monitors the PMUs (from a dozen up...
614. ...A system presents system wide data on all generators and substations in the system every 2 to 10 seconds. PMUs often use phone lines to connect to PDCs, which then send data to the SCADA or Wide Area **Measurement** System (WAMS) server. Additionally, PMUs can use ubiquitous mobile (cellular) networks for data transfer (GPRS, UMTS), which allows potential savings in infrastructure and deployment costs, at the ex...
615. ...which allows potential savings in infrastructure and deployment costs, at the expense of a larger data reporting latency. However, the introduced data latency makes such systems more suitable for R&D **measurement** campaigns and near real-time monitoring, and limits their use in real-time protective systems. PMUs from multiple vendors can yield inaccurate readings. In one test, readings differed by 47 microseco...
616. ...in 2001. In 2005, it was replaced by IEEE C37.118-2005, which was a complete revision and dealt with issues concerning use of PMUs in electric power systems. The specification describes standards for **measurement**, the method of quantifying the measurements, testing & certification requirements for verifying accuracy, and data transmission format and protocol for real-time data communication. This standard was...
617. ...11, which split the IEEE C37.118-2005 standard into two parts: C37.118-1 dealing with the phasor estimation & C37.118-2 the communications protocol. It also introduced two classifications of PMU, M — **measurement** & P — protection. M class is close in performance requirements to that in the original 2005 standard, primarily for steady state measurement. P class has relaxed some performance requirements and is...
618. ...otocol. It also introduced two classifications of PMU, M — measurement & P — protection. M class is close in performance requirements to that in the original 2005 standard, primarily for steady state **measurement**. P class has relaxed some performance requirements and is intended to capture dynamic system behavior. An amendment to C37.118.1 was released in 2014. IEEE C37.118.1a-2014 modified PMU performance re...
619. ...um feldspar) extracted from the sample, and measuring the amount of light emitted as a result. The photons of the emitted light must have higher energies than the excitation photons in order to avoid **measurement** of ordinary photoluminescence. A sample in which the mineral grains have all been exposed to sufficient daylight (seconds for quartz; hundreds of seconds for potassium feldspar) can be said to be of...
620. ...an environment used to verify the correctness or soundness of a design or model. The term has its roots in the testing of electronic devices, where an engineer would sit at a lab bench with tools for **measurement** and manipulation, such as oscilloscopes, multimeters, soldering irons, wire cutters, and so on, and manually verify the correctness of the device under test (DUT). In the context of software or firmw...
621. ...ably sensitive probe coupled to it in order to measure its state after a computation has been carried out. Such quantum probes should introduce as little back-action as possible onto the qubit during **measurement**. Ideally they should be decoupled during computation and then turned "on" for a short time during read-out. Read-out probes for flux qubits work by interacting with one of the qubit's macroscopic var...
622. ...ad-out scheme is based on a SQUID loop that is inductively coupled to the qubit, the qubit's state influences the critical current of the SQUID. The critical current can then be read-out using ramped **measurement** currents through the SQUID. Recently the group has used the plasma frequency of the SQUID as the read-out variable. Dr. Il'ichev's group at IPHT Jena in Germany are using impedance measurement techni...
623. ...ramped measurement currents through the SQUID. Recently the group has used the plasma frequency of the SQUID as the read-out variable. Dr. Il'ichev's group at IPHT Jena in Germany are using impedance **measurement** techniques based on the flux qubit influencing the resonant properties of a high quality tank circuit, which, like the Delft group is also inductively coupled to the qubit. In this scheme the qubit's...
624. ...at fits the voltmeter and on the other end a rigid, tubular plastic section that comprises both a handle and probe body. The handle allows a person to hold and guide the probe without influencing the **measurement** (by becoming part of the electric circuit) or being exposed to dangerous voltages that might cause electric shock. Within the probe body, the wire is connected to a rigid, pointed metal tip that cont...
625. ...amplifier. Active probes have several disadvantages which have kept them from replacing passive probes for all applications: Many active probes allow the user to introduce an offset voltage to allow **measurement** of voltages with excessive DC level. The total dynamic range is still limited, but the user may be able to adjust its centerpoint so that voltages in the range of, for example, zero to five volts may...
626. ...vantage of this method is the need to break the circuit to introduce the shunt. Another problem is measuring the voltage across the shunt when common-mode voltages are present; a differential voltage **measurement** is needed. Alternating currents are relatively easy to measure as transformers can be used. A current transformer is commonly used to measure alternating currents. The current to be measured is force...
627. ...inding has a burden resistor to set the current scale. The properties of a transformer offer many advantages. The current transformer rejects common mode voltages, so an accurate single-ended voltage **measurement** can be made on a grounded secondary. The effective series resistance formula_4 of the primary winding is set by the burden resistor on the secondary winding formula_5 and the transformer turns ratio...
628. ...er circuit to yield a wide band signal extending from DC to over 50 MHz. The Tektronix A6302 current probe and AM503 amplifier combination is an example of such a system.  Near-field probes allow the **measurement** of an electromagnetic field. They are commonly used to measure electrical noise and other undesirable electromagnetic radiation from the DUT, although they can also be used to spy on the workings of...
629. ...expansion, which can be accomplished only by physical means (intravenous or oral intake of fluids), all other hemodynamic modulating tools are pharmacological, cardioactive or vasoactive agents." The **measurement** of CI and its derivatives allow clinicians to make timely patient assessment, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment decisions. It has been well established that both trained and untrained physicians al...
630. ...is, prognosis, and treatment decisions. It has been well established that both trained and untrained physicians alike are unable to estimate cardiac output through physical assessment alone. Clinical **measurement** of cardiac output has been available since the 1970s. However, this blood flow measurement is highly invasive, utilizing a flow-directed, thermodilution catheter (also known as the Swan-Ganz catheter...
631. ...untrained physicians alike are unable to estimate cardiac output through physical assessment alone. Clinical measurement of cardiac output has been available since the 1970s. However, this blood flow **measurement** is highly invasive, utilizing a flow-directed, thermodilution catheter (also known as the Swan-Ganz catheter), which represents significant risks to the patient. In addition, this technique is costly...
632. ..."animal magnetism". The present scientific definition took form in the 1970s, when an increasing number of researchers began to measure the magnetic fields produced by the human body. The first valid **measurement** was actually made in 1963, but the field of research began to expand only after a low-noise technique was developed in 1970. Today the community of biomagnetic researchers does not have a formal orga...
633. ...earchers does not have a formal organization, but international conferences are held every two years, with about 600 attendees. Most conference activity centers on the MEG (magnetoencephalogram), the **measurement** of the magnetic field of the brain. Supermalloy Supermalloy is an alloy composed of nickel (75%), iron (20%), and molybdenum (5%). It is a high permeability ferromagnetic alloy used in magnetic cores...
634. ...ave a DC gain of 1. Some authors use this scaling, while many others omit the time-scaling and the "T", resulting in a low-pass filter model with a DC gain of "T", and hence dependent on the units of **measurement** of time. The zero-order hold is the hypothetical filter or LTI system that converts the sequence of modulated Dirac impulses "x"("t")to the piecewise-constant signal (shown in Figure 2): formula_7 re...
635. ..."s" possible values) and "sum" over the spins of the outgoing particles. That is, Bhabha scattering has been used as a luminosity monitor in a number of ee collider physics experiments. The accurate **measurement** of luminosity is necessary for accurate measurements of cross sections. Small-angle Bhabha scattering was used to measure the luminosity of the 1993 run of the Stanford Large Detector (SLD), with a r...
636. ...achieve the desired precision at the 0.1% level, the experimental measurements must be compared to a theoretical calculation including next-to-leading-order radiative corrections. The high-precision **measurement** of the total hadronic cross section at these low energies is a crucial input into the theoretical calculation of the anomalous magnetic dipole moment of the muon, which is used to constrain supersymm...
637. ...e relative of electrical impedance tomography and is proposed as a method for industrial process monitoring.  Although capacitance sensing methods were in widespread use the idea of using capacitance **measurement** to form images is attributed to Maurice Beck and co-workers at UMIST in the 1980s. Although usually called tomography, the technique differs from conventional tomographic methods, in which high resol...
638. ...workers at UMIST in the 1980s. Although usually called tomography, the technique differs from conventional tomographic methods, in which high resolution images are formed of slices of a material. The **measurement** electrodes, which are metallic plates, must be sufficiently large to give a measureable change in capacitance. This means that very few electrodes are used, typically eight to sixteen electrodes. An...
639. ...measurements. This means that the technique is limited to producing very low resolution images of approximate slices. However, ECT is fast, and relatively inexpensive. Applications of ECT include the **measurement** of flow of fluids in pipes and measurement of the concentration of one fluid in another, or the distribution of a solid in a fluid. ECT enables the visualization of multiphase flow, which play an imp...
640. ...is limited to producing very low resolution images of approximate slices. However, ECT is fast, and relatively inexpensive. Applications of ECT include the measurement of flow of fluids in pipes and **measurement** of the concentration of one fluid in another, or the distribution of a solid in a fluid. ECT enables the visualization of multiphase flow, which play an important role in the technological processes...
641. ...araday, Luigi Galvani, Alessandro Volta, André-Marie Ampère and Georg Simon Ohm, whose collective work provided the basis for modern electrical technology and for whom fundamental units of electrical **measurement** are named. Others who would advance the field of knowledge included William Watson, Georg Matthias Bose, Smeaton, Louis-Guillaume Le Monnier, Jacques de Romas, Jean Jallabert, Giovanni Battista Becca...
642. ...bilities, the currents "I" ... "I" through the four contacts, and with their chemical potentials "μ" ... "μ", equation () can be re-written A voltage is measured between contacts 2 and 3. The voltage **measurement** should ideally not involve a flow of current through the meter, so "I" = "I" = 0. It follows that In other words, the chemical potentials "μ" and "μ" and their respective voltages and are the same. A...
643. ...tip, and measuring differential conductance between it and the sample, the spin polarization of the normal metal at that point (and magnetic field) may be determined. This is of use in such tasks as **measurement** of spin-polarized currents or characterizing spin polarization of material layers or bulk samples, and the effects of magnetic fields on such properties. In an Andreev process, the phase difference b...
644. ...e importance of understanding brain mechanisms of sensory information processing, that is, the sensory prerequisites of cognition. Most of the data obtained, unfortunately, do not allow the objective **measurement** of the accuracy of these stimulus representations. In addition, recent cognitive neuroscience seems to have succeeded in extracting such a measure, however. This is the mismatch negativity (MMN), a c...
645. ...meters such as foil peel-off strength, is important. Analysers may be portable or designed to work in conjunction with conveyor belt systems. High speed power analysis techniques (voltage and current **measurement** in near real time) can be used to intercept power delivery from mains to generator or generator to head in order to calculate energy delivered to the foil and the statistical profile of that process....
646. ...decreasing continuous functions provided Furthermore, if , then One also has, for this class of functions, Conductivity factor The conductivity factor (CF) of dissolved salts in a given solution is a **measurement** of conductivity. Using the electrical conductivity between two electrodes in a water solution, the level of dissolved solids in that solution can be measured. Measurements can then be used to dose th...
647. ...s the need for a decimal point, so an EC of 0.1 is equal to a CF of 1. Electrical conductivity can be expressed using a number of different units but the international standard is EC, and the unit of **measurement** is usually milliSiemens or microSiemens. The difference between these two units of measurement is the placement of the decimal point, so 1 milliSiemens is equal to 1000 microSiemens.  Light pillar A...
648. ...can be expressed using a number of different units but the international standard is EC, and the unit of measurement is usually milliSiemens or microSiemens. The difference between these two units of **measurement** is the placement of the decimal point, so 1 milliSiemens is equal to 1000 microSiemens.  Light pillar A light pillar or ice pillar is an atmospheric optical phenomenon in which a vertical beam of lig...
649. ...fields. The series of experiments examines the potential for a spheromak device to contain fusion fuel. According to a 1999 abstract, Measuring receiver In telecommunication, a measuring receiver or **measurement** receiver is a calibrated laboratory-grade radio receiver designed to measure the characteristics of radio signals. The parameters of such receivers (tuning frequency, receiving bandwidth, gain) can b...
650. ...dth, gain) can be adjusted over a much more comprehensive range of values than other radio receivers. Their circuitry is optimized for stability and enables calibration and reproducible results. Some **measurement** receivers also have exceptionally robust input circuits that can survive brief impulses of more than 1000 V, as they can occur during measurements of radio signals on power lines and other conductors...
651. ...t’s N5531S and MXE or Rohde & Schwarz's FSMR and ESU) also include a signal analyzer, power meter, and a sensor module to allow the instruments to be used together or individually for general-purpose **measurement** tasks. The time-domain EMI measurement systems show additional features like weighted Spectrogram mode, oscilloscope mode as well and measurement of discontinuous disturbance according to CISPR 14-1....
652. ...FSMR and ESU) also include a signal analyzer, power meter, and a sensor module to allow the instruments to be used together or individually for general-purpose measurement tasks. The time-domain EMI **measurement** systems show additional features like weighted Spectrogram mode, oscilloscope mode as well and measurement of discontinuous disturbance according to CISPR 14-1. Receivers used for compliance testing...
653. ...be used together or individually for general-purpose measurement tasks. The time-domain EMI measurement systems show additional features like weighted Spectrogram mode, oscilloscope mode as well and **measurement** of discontinuous disturbance according to CISPR 14-1. Receivers used for compliance testing must fulfill the basic EMC standard CISPR 16-1-1. CISPR 16-1-1 defines requirements for the indication of C...
654. ...lower output and slower decline over time. Blondel's theorem Blondel's theorem, named after its discoverer, French electrical engineer André Blondel, is the result of his attempt to simplify both the **measurement** of electrical energy and the validation of such measurements.  The result is a simple rule that specifies the minimum number of watt-hour meters required to measure the consumption of energy in any s...
655. ...r), but the 2S meter is a single element meter. The 2S meter includes one potential measuring device (a coil or a voltmeter) and two current measuring devices. The current measuring devices provide a **measurement** equal to one half of the actual current value. The combination of a single potential coil and two so called half coils provides highly accurate metering under most conditions. The meter has been used...
656. ...el compliant. Such loads are two wire loads and a single element meter suffices. The non compliance of the meter occurs in measuring line to neutral loads. The meter design approximates a two element **measurement** by combining a half current value with the potential value of the line to line connection. The line to line potential is exactly twice the line to neutral connection if the two line to neutral connec...
657. ...al waveform (where the magnetization from horizontal scan current was greatest). An additional use for the transductor, prior to Hall effect devices, was as a feedback transducer for large dc current **measurement**. The dc bus to be measured passed through the center of the toroidal iron core saturable reactor and 120vac excitation was applied to the winding around the iron core. As the current in the dc bus in...
658. ...e Sun–Earth Lagrange Point L1; since July 2016, it has been monitored by the Deep Space Climate Observatory (DSCOVR) satellite, also at the Sun–Earth L1 (with the ACE continuing to serve as a back-up **measurement**). Finite-difference frequency-domain method The finite-difference frequency-domain (FDFD) method is a numerical solution method for problems usually in electromagnetism and sometimes in acoustics, ba...
659. ...field of view of 30 arcminutes (about the size of the full moon on the sky). The instrument will be used for a number of key programmes, including galaxy formation and evolution and dark energy via a **measurement** of the rate at which the universe is expanding. It is currently being built by a consortium of institutes led by Kyoto University and Oxford University with parts also being manufactured by the Ruthe...
660. ...robes are also used to measure sheet resistance of thin films (particularly semiconductor thin films). Separation of current and voltage electrodes eliminates the lead and contact resistance from the **measurement**. This is an advantage for precise measurement of low resistance values. For example, an LCR bridge instruction manual recommends the four-terminal technique for accurate measurement of resistance bel...
661. ...e of thin films (particularly semiconductor thin films). Separation of current and voltage electrodes eliminates the lead and contact resistance from the measurement. This is an advantage for precise **measurement** of low resistance values. For example, an LCR bridge instruction manual recommends the four-terminal technique for accurate measurement of resistance below 100 ohms. Four-terminal sensing is also kno...
662. ...sistance from the measurement. This is an advantage for precise measurement of low resistance values. For example, an LCR bridge instruction manual recommends the four-terminal technique for accurate **measurement** of resistance below 100 ohms. Four-terminal sensing is also known as Kelvin sensing, after William Thomson, Lord Kelvin, who invented the Kelvin bridge in 1861 to measure very low resistances using f...
663. ...ires as the inside pair, while the force wires are the outside pair. If the force and sense connections are exchanged, accuracy can be affected, because more of the lead resistance is included in the **measurement**. The force wires may have to carry a large current when measuring very small resistances, and must be of adequate gauge; the sense wires can be of a small gauge. The technique is commonly used in low...
664. ...netic field lines. This angle varies at different points on Earth's surface. Positive values of inclination indicate that the magnetic field of Earth is pointing downward, into Earth, at the point of **measurement**, and negative values indicate that it is pointing upward. The dip angle is in principle the angle made by the needle of a vertically held compass, though in practice ordinary compass needles may be w...
665. ...f the surfaces through which the current is flowing, and by films or oxide layers on the contacting surfaces. It occurs at electrical connections such as switches, connectors, breakers, contacts, and **measurement** probes. Contact resistance values are typically small (in the microohm to milliohm range). Contact resistance can cause significant voltage drops and heating in circuits with high current. Because co...
666. ...ntact resistance can cause significant voltage drops and heating in circuits with high current. Because contact resistance adds to the intrinsic resistance of the conductors, it can cause significant **measurement** errors when exact resistance values are needed. Contact resistance may vary with temperature. It may also vary with time (most often decreasing) in a process known as resistance creep. Electrical con...
667. ...he difference between experimental results and the model of gradual channel approximation. Because contact resistance is usually comparatively small, it can be difficult to measure, and four-terminal **measurement** gives better results than a simple two-terminal measurement made with an ohmmeter. Specific contact resistance can be obtained by multiplying by contact area. For experimental characterization, a dis...
668. ...gradual channel approximation. Because contact resistance is usually comparatively small, it can be difficult to measure, and four-terminal measurement gives better results than a simple two-terminal **measurement** made with an ohmmeter. Specific contact resistance can be obtained by multiplying by contact area. For experimental characterization, a distinction must be made between contact resistance evaluation...
669. ...ere (linear potential drop across the channel region, constant contact resistance, ...) lead sometimes to the channel dependent contact resistance. Beside the TLM it was proposed the gated four-probe **measurement** and the modified time-of-flight method (TOF). The direct methods able to measure potential drop on the injection electrode directly are the Kelvin probe force microscopy (KFM) and the electric-field...
670. ...conductor industry, Cross-Bridge Kelvin Resistor(CBKR) structures are the mostly used test structures to characterize metal-semiconductor contacts in the Planar devices of VLSI technology. During the **measurement** process, force the current (formula_12) between contacts 1 and 2 and measure the potential deference between contacts 3 and 4. The contact resistance formula_13 can be then calculated as formula_14 ....
671. ...he activity coefficients: the problem is that we need to go towards very high dilutions. Typical examples are: measurements of vapour pressure, freezing point, osmotic pressure (indirect methods) and **measurement** of electric potential in cells (direct method). Going towards high dilutions good results have been found using liquid membrane cells, it has been possible to investigate aqueous media 10 M and it ha...
672. ...ds the accuracy of other current comparators around several orders of magnitude. It is used in electrical metrology for exact comparative measurements of electric resistances or the amplification and **measurement** of extremely small electric currents. The CCC principle goes back on "Harvey" and is based substantially on the properties of superconductors. CCCs make use of macroscopic quantum effects that occur...
673. ...the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST, USA) or the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB, D). Here, electrical resistance comparisons using CCCs are accomplished with relative **measurement** uncertainties of only about 10. Electrochemical migration Electrochemical migration (ECM) is the dissolution and movement of metal ions in presence of electric potential, which results in the growth...
674. ...sing from the quantum potential. The collapse of the wave function of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum theory is explained in the quantum potential approach by the demonstration that, after a **measurement**, "all the packets of the multi-dimensional wave function that do not correspond to the actual result of measurement have no effect on the particle" from then on. Bohm and Hiley pointed out that Measu...
675. ...y is explained in the quantum potential approach by the demonstration that, after a measurement, "all the packets of the multi-dimensional wave function that do not correspond to the actual result of **measurement** have no effect on the particle" from then on. Bohm and Hiley pointed out that Measurement then "involves a participatory transformation in which both the system under observation and the observing ap...
676. ...ement, "all the packets of the multi-dimensional wave function that do not correspond to the actual result of measurement have no effect on the particle" from then on. Bohm and Hiley pointed out that **Measurement** then "involves a participatory transformation in which both the system under observation and the observing apparatus undergo a mutual participation so that the trajectories behave in a correlated man...
677. ...pace quantum field theory, in particular using the Newton–Wigner localization approach, but that no connection with possibilities for an empirical determination of position in terms of a relativistic **measurement** theory or for a trajectory interpretation has so far been established. Yet according to Holland this does not mean that the trajectory concept is to be discarded from considerations of relativistic q...
678. ...ry-low-distortion sinewave input and examining the output. The figure measured will include noise, and any contribution from imperfect filtering out of the fundamental frequency. Harmonic-by-harmonic **measurement**, without wideband noise, can be measured by a more complex wave analyser. Another application is measurement of the effectiveness of an electronic filter with extremely narrow passband, such as a not...
679. ...ntribution from imperfect filtering out of the fundamental frequency. Harmonic-by-harmonic measurement, without wideband noise, can be measured by a more complex wave analyser. Another application is **measurement** of the effectiveness of an electronic filter with extremely narrow passband, such as a notch filter in a parametric equalizer. There are several types of distortion analyzers: This type of THD analyz...
680. ...the conformation, structure, or any other property of the molecule, it's just switching forms of the same atom. Thus an intrinsically radiolabeled molecule is identical to its unlabeled counterpart. **Measurement** of biological phenomena by radiotracers is always direct. In contrast, many life science fluorescence applications are indirect, consisting of a fluorescent dye increasing, decreasing, or shifting in...
681. ...onductor(s). Relays, which use the unbalance voltage (3 voltmeter method), are not insulation monitoring devices according to this standard. Under special network conditions, a combination of several **measurement** methods may be necessary to fulfill the monitoring task, including an asymmetry monitoring. Terminology differs by region and by market segment. Synaptic potential Synaptic potential refers to the po...
682. ...length. At 60 cycles per second, the wavelength is 5,000 kilometers, and even at 100,000 hertz, the wavelength is 3 kilometers. This is a very large distance compared to those typically used in field **measurement** and application. The important part of the electric field of a conductor extends to the return conductor, which usually is only a few feet distant. At greater distance, the aggregate field can be app...
683. ...dex, due to the pressure fluctuations, may be detected optically by refraction, diffraction, and interference effects; reflection may also be used. The acousto-optic effect is extensively used in the **measurement** and study of ultrasonic waves. However, the growing principal area of interest is in acousto-optical devices for the deflection, modulation, signal processing and frequency shifting of light beams. T...
684. ...erformed in low-energy atomic physics experiments, high-energy collider experiments, and condensed matter systems. The value of "α" is obtained in each of these experiments by fitting an experimental **measurement** to a theoretical expression (including higher-order radiative corrections) that includes "α" as a parameter. The uncertainty in the extracted value of "α" includes both experimental and theoretical u...
685. ...ical uncertainties. This program thus requires both high-precision measurements and high-precision theoretical calculations. Unless noted otherwise, all results below are taken from. The most precise **measurement** of "α" comes from the anomalous magnetic dipole moment, or "g"−2 (pronounced "g minus 2"), of the electron. To make this measurement, two ingredients are needed: As of February 2007, the best measure...
686. ...oted otherwise, all results below are taken from. The most precise measurement of "α" comes from the anomalous magnetic dipole moment, or "g"−2 (pronounced "g minus 2"), of the electron. To make this **measurement**, two ingredients are needed: As of February 2007, the best measurement of the anomalous magnetic dipole moment of the electron was made by the group of Gerald Gabrielse at Harvard University, using a...
687. ...urement of "α" comes from the anomalous magnetic dipole moment, or "g"−2 (pronounced "g minus 2"), of the electron. To make this measurement, two ingredients are needed: As of February 2007, the best **measurement** of the anomalous magnetic dipole moment of the electron was made by the group of Gerald Gabrielse at Harvard University, using a single electron caught in a Penning trap. The difference between the e...
688. ...lectron caught in a Penning trap. The difference between the electron's cyclotron frequency and its spin precession frequency in a magnetic field is proportional to "g"−2. An extremely high precision **measurement** of the quantized energies of the cyclotron orbits, or "Landau levels", of the electron, compared to the quantized energies of the electron's two possible spin orientations, gives a value for the elec...
689. ...ons, gives a value for the electron's spin "g"-factor: a precision of better than one part in a trillion. (The digits in parentheses indicate the standard uncertainty in the last listed digits of the **measurement**.) The current state-of-the-art theoretical calculation of the anomalous magnetic dipole moment of the electron includes QED diagrams with up to four loops. Combining this with the experimental measur...
690. ...rement.) The current state-of-the-art theoretical calculation of the anomalous magnetic dipole moment of the electron includes QED diagrams with up to four loops. Combining this with the experimental **measurement** of "g" yields the most precise value of "α": a precision of better than a part in a billion. This uncertainty is ten times smaller than the nearest rival method involving atom-recoil measurements. A...
691. ...ical principle as for the electron above – namely, that the difference between the cyclotron frequency and the spin precession frequency in a magnetic field is proportional to "g"−2. The most precise **measurement** comes from Brookhaven National Laboratory's muon g−2 experiment, in which polarized muons are stored in a cyclotron and their spin orientation is measured by the direction of their decay electrons. A...
692. ...nt, in which polarized muons are stored in a cyclotron and their spin orientation is measured by the direction of their decay electrons. As of February 2007, the current world average muon "g"-factor **measurement** is, a precision of better than one part in a billion. The difference between the "g"-factors of the muon and the electron is due to their difference in mass. Because of the muon's larger mass, contri...
693. ...is reason, the muon's anomalous magnetic moment is normally used as a probe for new physics beyond the Standard Model rather than as a test of QED.  "See" muon "g"–2 for current efforts to refine the **measurement**. This is an indirect method of measuring "α", based on measurements of the masses of the electron, certain atoms, and the Rydberg constant. The Rydberg constant is known to seven parts in a trillion....
694. ...y measuring the recoil speed of the atom after it emits a photon of known wavelength in an atomic transition. Combining this with the ratio of electron to Rb atom, the result for "α" is, Because this **measurement** is the next-most-precise after the measurement of "α" from the electron's anomalous magnetic dipole moment described above, their comparison provides the most stringent test of QED: the value of "α"...
695. ...it emits a photon of known wavelength in an atomic transition. Combining this with the ratio of electron to Rb atom, the result for "α" is, Because this measurement is the next-most-precise after the **measurement** of "α" from the electron's anomalous magnetic dipole moment described above, their comparison provides the most stringent test of QED: the value of "α" obtained here is within one standard deviation...
696. ...r in principle to the atom-recoil method. In this case, the accurately known mass ratio of the electron to the neutron is used. The neutron mass is measured with high precision through a very precise **measurement** of its Compton wavelength. This is then combined with the value of the Rydberg constant to extract "α". The result is, Hyperfine splitting is a splitting in the energy levels of an atom caused by the...
697. .... This leads to the extracted value of "α" being dominated by theoretical uncertainty: The hyperfine splitting in muonium, an "atom" consisting of an electron and an antimuon, provides a more precise **measurement** of "α" because the muon has no internal structure: The Lamb shift is a small difference in the energies of the 2 S and 2 P energy levels of hydrogen, which arises from a one-loop effect in quantum el...
698. ...shift is a small difference in the energies of the 2 S and 2 P energy levels of hydrogen, which arises from a one-loop effect in quantum electrodynamics. The Lamb shift is proportional to "α" and its **measurement** yields the extracted value: Positronium is an "atom" consisting of an electron and a positron. Whereas the calculation of the energy levels of ordinary hydrogen is contaminated by theoretical uncerta...
699. ...aminated by theoretical uncertainties from the proton's internal structure, the particles that make up positronium have no internal structure so precise theoretical calculations can be performed. The **measurement** of the splitting between the 2 S and the 1 S energy levels of positronium yields Measurements of "α" can also be extracted from the positronium decay rate. Positronium decays through the annihilation...
700. ...ller area. ESAs are typically used as components of space instrumentation, to limit the scanning (sensing) energy range and, thereby also, the range of particles targeted for detection and scientific **measurement**. The closest analogue in photon optics is a filter. Electrostatic analyzers are designed in different configurations. A simple version is a radial cylindrical analyzer, which consists of two curved p...
701. ...es this body to rotate. The effect is a consequence of the conservation of angular momentum. It is strong enough to be observable in ferromagnetic materials. The experimental observation and accurate **measurement** of the effect demonstrated that the phenomenon of magnetization is caused by the alignment (polarization) of the angular momenta of the electrons in the material along the axis of magnetization. Thes...
702. ...s larger mechanical impact on the magnetized cylinder. The later accurate experiments were done in a specially constructed demagnetized environment with active compensation of the ambient fields. The **measurement** methods typically use the properties of the torsion pendulum, providing periodic current to the magnetization coil at frequencies close to the pendulum's resonance. The experiments measure directly t...
703. ...y adjusting the other arms or changing the frequency of the voltage source. See, for example, the Wheatstone bridge. The Wien bridge is one of many common bridges. Wien's bridge is used for precision **measurement** of capacitance in terms of resistance and frequency. It was also used to measure audio frequencies. The Wien bridge does not require equal values of "R" or "C". At some frequency, the reactance of th...
704. ...ons 20-21-22). A LISN is a low-pass filter typically placed between an AC or DC power source and the EUT (equipment under test) to create a known impedance and to provide a radio frequency (RF) noise **measurement** port. It also isolates the unwanted RF signals from the power source. In addition, LISNs can be used to predict conducted emission for diagnostic and pre-compliance testing. The main function of a LI...
705. ...c and pre-compliance testing. The main function of a LISN is to provide a precise impedance to the power input of the EUT, in order to get repeatable measurements of the EUT noise present at the LISN **measurement** port. This is important because the impedance of the power source and the impedance of the EUT effectively operate as a voltage divider. The impedance of the power source varies, depending on the geo...
706. ...nded installation of the EUT also plays a role in identifying the correct type of LISN needed for testing. For example, a connection in a building will often use 50 μH inductor, whereas in automobile **measurement** standards a 5 μH inductor is used to emulate a shorter typical wire length. Another important function of a LISN is to prevent the high-frequency noise of the power source from coupling in the system...
707. ...a spectrum analyzer or an EMI receiver is used to take the measurements during an EMC test. The input port of such an equipment is very sensitive and prone to damage if overloaded. A LISN provides a **measurement** port with, usually, 50 Ω output impedance. The stabilized impedance, the built-in low-pass filter function, and the DC rejection properties of the LISN measurement port makes it easy to couple the hi...
708. ...ge if overloaded. A LISN provides a measurement port with, usually, 50 Ω output impedance. The stabilized impedance, the built-in low-pass filter function, and the DC rejection properties of the LISN **measurement** port makes it easy to couple the high frequency noise signal to the input of the measuring equipment. Under a particular EMC test standard, a specific LISN type is required for evaluating and charact...
709. ...t naturally occurring samples of water is about 2%/°C; however it can range between 1 and 3%/°C. The compensation gradients for some common water solutions are listed in the table below. Conductivity **measurement** is a versatile tool in process control. The measurement is simple and fast, and most advanced sensors require only a little maintenance. The measured conductivity reading can be used to make various...
710. ...owever it can range between 1 and 3%/°C. The compensation gradients for some common water solutions are listed in the table below. Conductivity measurement is a versatile tool in process control. The **measurement** is simple and fast, and most advanced sensors require only a little maintenance. The measured conductivity reading can be used to make various assumptions on what is happening in the process. In some...
711. ...sured. The preset curves for various acids and bases are commercially available. For example, one can measure the concentration of high purity hydrofluoric acid using conductivity-based concentration **measurement** [Zhejiang Quhua Fluorchemical, China Valmet Concentration 3300]. A benefit of conductivity- and temperature-based concentration measurement is the superior speed of inline measurement compared to an...
712. ...ty hydrofluoric acid using conductivity-based concentration measurement [Zhejiang Quhua Fluorchemical, China Valmet Concentration 3300]. A benefit of conductivity- and temperature-based concentration **measurement** is the superior speed of inline measurement compared to an on-line analyzer. Conductivity-based concentration measurement has limitations. The concentration-conductivity dependence of most acids and...
713. ...d concentration measurement [Zhejiang Quhua Fluorchemical, China Valmet Concentration 3300]. A benefit of conductivity- and temperature-based concentration measurement is the superior speed of inline **measurement** compared to an on-line analyzer. Conductivity-based concentration measurement has limitations. The concentration-conductivity dependence of most acids and bases is not linear. Conductivity-based meas...
714. ...tration 3300]. A benefit of conductivity- and temperature-based concentration measurement is the superior speed of inline measurement compared to an on-line analyzer. Conductivity-based concentration **measurement** has limitations. The concentration-conductivity dependence of most acids and bases is not linear. Conductivity-based measurement cannot determine on which side of the peak the measurement is, and the...
715. ...ment compared to an on-line analyzer. Conductivity-based concentration measurement has limitations. The concentration-conductivity dependence of most acids and bases is not linear. Conductivity-based **measurement** cannot determine on which side of the peak the measurement is, and therefore the measurement is only possible on a linear section of the curve.  Kraft pulp mills use conductivity-based concentration...
716. ...ncentration measurement has limitations. The concentration-conductivity dependence of most acids and bases is not linear. Conductivity-based measurement cannot determine on which side of the peak the **measurement** is, and therefore the measurement is only possible on a linear section of the curve.  Kraft pulp mills use conductivity-based concentration measurement to control alkali additions to various stages o...
717. ...tions. The concentration-conductivity dependence of most acids and bases is not linear. Conductivity-based measurement cannot determine on which side of the peak the measurement is, and therefore the **measurement** is only possible on a linear section of the curve.  Kraft pulp mills use conductivity-based concentration measurement to control alkali additions to various stages of the cook. Conductivity measureme...
718. ...cannot determine on which side of the peak the measurement is, and therefore the measurement is only possible on a linear section of the curve.  Kraft pulp mills use conductivity-based concentration **measurement** to control alkali additions to various stages of the cook. Conductivity measurement will not determine the specific amount of alkali components, but it is a good indication on the amount of effective...
719. ...asurement is only possible on a linear section of the curve.  Kraft pulp mills use conductivity-based concentration measurement to control alkali additions to various stages of the cook. Conductivity **measurement** will not determine the specific amount of alkali components, but it is a good indication on the amount of effective alkali (NaOH + NaS as NaOH or NaO) or active alkali (NaOH + NaS as NaOH or NaO) in...
720. ...ve alkali (NaOH + NaS as NaOH or NaO) in the cooking liquor. The composition of the liquor varies between different stages of the cook. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a specific curve for each **measurement** point or to use commercially available products. The high pressure and temperature of cooking process, combined with high concentration of alkali components, put a heavy strain on conductivity sensor...
721. ...concentration of alkali components, put a heavy strain on conductivity sensors that are installed in process. The scaling on the electrodes needs to be taken into account, otherwise the conductivity **measurement** drifts, requiring increased calibration and maintenance. Sparx (character) Sparx (Donna Force) is a fictional superheroine published by DC Comics. She first appeared in "The Adventures of Superman An...
722. ...fts to rotate. The rotating shaft creates an electrical signal proportional to the cable's linear extension or velocity. String potentiometers are used to measure the position of a moving object. The **measurement** cable can be connected directly to the moving part, giving a constant measurement of its linear position. This simple type of measurement device has been in use by engineers and designers for about 4...
723. ...cable's linear extension or velocity. String potentiometers are used to measure the position of a moving object. The measurement cable can be connected directly to the moving part, giving a constant **measurement** of its linear position. This simple type of measurement device has been in use by engineers and designers for about 40 years. String potentiometers are generally durable, simple to use, and inexpensi...
724. ...ters are used to measure the position of a moving object. The measurement cable can be connected directly to the moving part, giving a constant measurement of its linear position. This simple type of **measurement** device has been in use by engineers and designers for about 40 years. String potentiometers are generally durable, simple to use, and inexpensive. The original application for string pots in the 1960...
725. ...of equipment. Common applications include: Hydraulic cylinders are used in many industries such as forklifts, cranes and aerials, material handling, die-casting, oil and gas, robotics and automation. **Measurement** of the extension of the cylinder requires knowledge of its current position, and often a string potentiometer is used. The string potentiometer may be connected as a three-wire tapped resistor (volta...
726. ...ten a string potentiometer is used. The string potentiometer may be connected as a three-wire tapped resistor (voltage divider), in a control circuit, or may be packaged with electronics to produce a **measurement** signal in a useful form, such as a variable voltage 0-10 VDC, variable current 4-20mA, pulse encoder, Bus (DeviceNet and Canbus) and RS-232 communications. Measurement ranges vary from about 1 inch t...
727. ...d with electronics to produce a measurement signal in a useful form, such as a variable voltage 0-10 VDC, variable current 4-20mA, pulse encoder, Bus (DeviceNet and Canbus) and RS-232 communications. **Measurement** ranges vary from about 1 inch to over 100 feet and are available in many appropriate package sizes. Since the measuring cable may sag or be deflected by wind or gravity, the overall precision of a st...
728. ...bout 1 inch to over 100 feet and are available in many appropriate package sizes. Since the measuring cable may sag or be deflected by wind or gravity, the overall precision of a string potentiometer **measurement** is limited. The cable mechanism limits the speed at which the measured object can move. Changing temperatures affect both the length of the cable and the resistance value of the potentiometer. Where...
729. ...necting wires or terminals is negligible compared to the resistance value. For resistors of less than an ohm, the resistance of the connecting wires or terminals becomes significant, and conventional **measurement** techniques will include them in the result. The operation of the Kelvin bridge is very similar to the Wheatstone bridge, but uses two additional resistors. Resistors "R" and "R" are connected to the...
730. ...bridge. In this arrangement, the parasitic resistance of the upper part of "R" and the lower part of "R" is outside of the potential measuring part of the bridge and therefore are not included in the **measurement**. However, the link between "R" and "R" ("R") "is" included in the potential measurement part of the circuit and therefore can affect the accuracy of the result. To overcome this, a second pair of res...
731. ...ower part of "R" is outside of the potential measuring part of the bridge and therefore are not included in the measurement. However, the link between "R" and "R" ("R") "is" included in the potential **measurement** part of the circuit and therefore can affect the accuracy of the result. To overcome this, a second pair of resistors "R"′ and "R"′ form a second pair of arms of the bridge (hence 'double bridge') an...
732. ...ation becomes zero and the balance equation becomes Rearranging to make "R" the subject The parasitic resistance "R" has been eliminated from the balance equation and its presence does not affect the **measurement** result. This equation is the same as for the functionally equivalent Wheatstone bridge. In practical use the magnitude of the supply B, can be arranged to provide current through Rs and Rx at or clos...
733. ...se the magnitude of the supply B, can be arranged to provide current through Rs and Rx at or close to the rated operating currents of the smaller rated resistor. This contributes to smaller errors in **measurement**. This current does not flow through the measuring bridge itself. This bridge can also be used to measure resistors of the more conventional two terminal design. The bridge potential connections are m...
734. ...is bridge can also be used to measure resistors of the more conventional two terminal design. The bridge potential connections are merely connected as close to the resistor terminals as possible. Any **measurement** will then exclude all circuit resistance not within the two potential connections. The accuracy of measurements made using this bridge are dependent on a number of factors. The accuracy of the standa...
735. ...ossible, but it is not possible to make it "exactly" the same. If the difference in ratio is small enough, then the last term of the balance equation above becomes small enough that it is negligible. **Measurement** accuracy is also increased by setting the current flowing through "R" and "R" to be as large as the rating of those resistors allows. This gives the greatest potential difference between the innermos...
736. ...have as low a resistance as possible, and the connections both in the resistors and the bridge more resemble bus bars rather than wire. Some ohmmeters include Kelvin bridges in order to obtain large **measurement** ranges. Instruments for measuring sub-ohm values are often referred to as low-resistance ohmmeters, milli-ohmmeters, micro-ohmmeters, etc. Minimum deviation In a prism, the angle of deviation () decr...
737. ...on (see pulsars). An extreme form of a magnetized neutron star is the magnetar. These are formed as the result of a core-collapse supernova. The existence of such stars was confirmed in 1998 with the **measurement** of the star SGR 1806-20. The magnetic field of this star has increased the surface temperature to 18 million K and it releases enormous amounts of energy in gamma ray bursts. Jets of relativistic pla...
738. ...y characteristic. Combined with a Joint Electron Device Engineering Council (JEDEC) technique such as JESD 51-1 and JESD 51-51, this method will produce accurate formula_1 measurements. However, this **measurement** technique is difficult to implement in multi-LED series circuits due to high common mode voltages and the need for fast, high duty cycle current pulses. This difficulty can be overcome by combining h...
739. ...g-term reliability; it also is a key factor for photometry. For example, a typical white LED output declines 20% for a 50 °C rise in junction temperature. Because of this temperature sensitivity, LED **measurement** standards, like IESNA’s LM-85, require that the junction temperature is determined when making photometric measurements. Junction heating can be minimized in these devices by using the Continuous Pul...
740. ...ing capability. The Bioassay intercomparison program is concerned with the calibration of measurements for radioactive isotopes in human urine samples. This program offers intercomparison samples for **measurement** of the following materials in urine: The "In Vivo" Monitoring intercomparison program is concerned with the calibration of measurement for radioactive isotopes directly in the human body. Phantoms or...
741. ...n urine samples. This program offers intercomparison samples for measurement of the following materials in urine: The "In Vivo" Monitoring intercomparison program is concerned with the calibration of **measurement** for radioactive isotopes directly in the human body. Phantoms or mannequins shaped to resemble parts of the human body are prepared which contain known quantities of radioactivity. Three programs are...
742. ...ve material, are sent to assay facilities as "blind" samples. Design characteristics: Phantoms can be used to evaluate the relative effect of size, shape and positioning on the performance of in vivo **measurement** equipment. Background: A water filled BOMAB is often used to estimate the (blank) background for "in vivo" assay systems. Detection Limits: A BOMAB filled with approximately 140 g of K-40, which is t...
743. ...or Programmable Instruments The Standard Commands for Programmable Instruments (SCPI; often pronounced "skippy") defines a standard for syntax and commands to use in controlling programmable test and **measurement** devices, such as automatic test equipment and electronic test equipment. SCPI was defined as an additional layer on top of the specification "Standard Codes, Formats, Protocols, and Common Commands"....
744. ...self-calibration routine on some equipment, and then returns the results of the calibration. Similar commands are grouped into a hierarchy or "tree" structure. For example, any instruction to read a **measurement** from an instrument will begin with "codice_2". Specific sub-commands within the hierarchy are nested with a colon (codice_9) character. For example, the command to "Measure a DC voltage" would take t...
745. ..." is used as the argument to the "codice_32" command. When multiple arguments are provided, the arguments are written as a comma-separated list. For example, a query command that performs an AC Volts **measurement** on a digital multimeter, using the meter's 10 VRMS measurement range, and displaying the measured voltage value with 4-1/2 digits of resolution, would be written as "codice_33". For commands that acc...
746. ...iple arguments are provided, the arguments are written as a comma-separated list. For example, a query command that performs an AC Volts measurement on a digital multimeter, using the meter's 10 VRMS **measurement** range, and displaying the measured voltage value with 4-1/2 digits of resolution, would be written as "codice_33". For commands that accept integer arguments, values may be specified in multiple comp...
747. ...ondary winding wound on the yoke. For that reason there is a great influence on the measured values, hence great care should be taken that the measuring head is placed on a clean and even sample. The **measurement** is based on similar principle as employed in the standardised single sheet tester. The manufacturers of the instrument claim that its measurement uncertainty is lower than 5% (as referred to results...
748. ...suring head is placed on a clean and even sample. The measurement is based on similar principle as employed in the standardised single sheet tester. The manufacturers of the instrument claim that its **measurement** uncertainty is lower than 5% (as referred to results from Epstein frame). The Soken tester has been developed in the second half of 20th century initially as a relatively cheap and easy to use analog...
749. ...e, beam energy, kerma, dose rate, and radiation dose. The monitoring and calculation of doses to safeguard human health is called dosimetry and is undertaken within the science of health physics. Key **measurement** tools are the use of dosimeters to give the external effective dose uptake and the use of bio-assay for ingested dose. The article on the sievert summarises the recommendations of the ICRU and ICRP o...
750. ...in IPS networks. IPS can achieve position accuracy of 2 cm, which is on par with RTK enabled GNSS receivers that can achieve 2 cm accuracy outdoors. IPS use different technologies, including distance **measurement** to nearby anchor nodes (nodes with known fixed positions, e.g. WiFi / LiFi access points, Bluetooth beacons or Ultra-Wideband beacons), magnetic positioning, dead reckoning. They either actively loca...
751. ...s are applied to compensate for these problems. Promising direction radio frequency positioning error correction opened by the use of alternative sources of navigational information, such as inertial **measurement** unit (IMU), monocular camera Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) and WiFi SLAM. Integration of data from various navigation systems with different physical principles can increase the accura...
752. ...re known location coordinates of the sensor or current location of any tags. Operability of such approaches requires some narrow passage to prevent from passing by out of range. Instead of long range **measurement**, a dense network of low-range receivers may be arranged, e.g. in a grid pattern for economy, throughout the space being observed. Due to the low range, a tagged entity will be identified by only a fe...
753. ...lowing a rough approximation of the tag location. Advanced systems combine visual coverage with a camera grid with the wireless coverage for the rough location. Most systems use a continuous physical **measurement** (such as angle and distance or distance only) along with the identification data in one combined signal. Reach by these sensors mostly covers an entire floor, or an aisle or just a single room. Short...
754. ...ons can increase the degrees of freedom of the whole system and further create more virtual resources to resolve more sources, via subspace approaches. Received signal strength indication (RSSI) is a **measurement** of the power level received by sensor. Because radio waves propagate according to the inverse-square law, distance can be approximated (typically to within 1.5 meters in ideal conditions and 2 to 4 m...
755. ...pass chips inside smartphones can sense and record these magnetic variations to map indoor locations. Pedestrian dead reckoning and other approaches for positioning of pedestrians propose an inertial **measurement** unit carried by the pedestrian either by measuring steps indirectly (step counting) or in a foot mounted approach, sometimes referring to maps or other additional sensors to constrain the inherent se...
756. ...cell phone. This reduces cost of manufacturing and testing the cell phone in a real environment. It can be used to test all major 2G, 2.5G, 3G and 3.5G wireless technologies. In a lab, high-precision **measurement** correction over the entire frequency and dynamic range as well as compensation for temperature effects in realtime are critical factors for achieving accuracy. A good quality mobile test set helps in...
757. ...& Schwarz International, http://www2.rohde-schwarz.com/en/products/test_and_measurement/product_categories/mobile_radio/ <br> Anritsu Corporation, http://www.anritsu.com/en-US/Products-Solutions/Test-**Measurement**/Mobile-Wireless-Communications/Handset-One-Box-Testers/index.aspx Radionics Radionics—also called electromagnetic therapy (EMT) and the Abrams method—is a form of alternative medicine that claims tha...
758. ...as accelerators of auroral electrons within the Earth's magnetosphere. Serious questions have been raised on their role even there. Epstein frame An Epstein frame or Epstein square is a standardised **measurement** device for measuring the magnetic properties of soft magnetic materials, especially used for testing of electrical steels.  The International Standard for the measurement configuration and conditions...
759. ...ein square is a standardised measurement device for measuring the magnetic properties of soft magnetic materials, especially used for testing of electrical steels.  The International Standard for the **measurement** configuration and conditions are defined by the standard IEC 60404-2:2008 Magnetic materials - Part 2: Methods of measurement of the magnetic properties of electrical steel sheet and strip by means o...
760. ...sed for testing of electrical steels.  The International Standard for the measurement configuration and conditions are defined by the standard IEC 60404-2:2008 Magnetic materials - Part 2: Methods of **measurement** of the magnetic properties of electrical steel sheet and strip by means of an Epstein frame published by International Electrotechnical Commission. An Epstein frame comprises a primary and a secondar...
761. ...ped in corners and weighted down with a force of 1 N (see photo).  The power losses are measured by means of a wattmeter method in which the primary current and secondary voltage are used. During the **measurement**, the Epstein frame behaves as an unloaded transformer. Power loss, "P", is calculated as: formula_1 where:<br> formula_2 is the number of turns of primary winding<br> formula_3 is the number of turns...
762. ...ally rotated 180 degrees while measuring the potential. This difference in potential through rotation by 180 degrees is twice the sedimentation potential. The zeta potential can be determined through **measurement** by sedimentation potential, as the concentration, conductivity of the suspension, density of the particle, and potential difference are known. By rotating the column 180 degrees, drift and geometry d...
763. ...nown. By rotating the column 180 degrees, drift and geometry differences of the column can be ignored. When dealing with the case of concentrated systems, the zeta potential can be determined through **measurement** of the sedimentation potential formula_5, from the potential difference relative to the distance between the electrodes. The other parameters represent the following: formula_6 the viscosity of the m...
764. ...he absorption bands are broader than might be expected, because of hydrogen bonding. Peak maxima for liquid water are observed at 3450 cm (2.898 μm), 3615 cm (2.766 μm) and 1640 cm (6.097 μm). Direct **measurement** of the infrared spectra of aqueous solutions requires that the cuvette windows be made of substances such as calcium fluoride which are water-insoluble. This difficulty can alternatively be overcome...
765. ...rth's surface (called surface electrode) and the other probe in the borehole (called downhole electrode), where the SP is to be measured. In fact, logging tools employ exactly this method. Since this **measurement** is relatively simple, usually SP downhole electrode is built into other logging tools. Electric power system An electric power system is a network of electrical components deployed to supply, transfe...
766. ...arium niobate (SBN), NaBiO (NBT). The Burns temperature, named from Gerald Burns, who studied this phenomenon with collaboration of Frank H. Dacol, has not been well understood yet. Focused impedance **measurement** Focused Impedance Measurement (FIM) is a recent technique for quantifying the electrical resistance in tissues of the human body with improved zone localization compared to conventional methods. This...
767. ...T). The Burns temperature, named from Gerald Burns, who studied this phenomenon with collaboration of Frank H. Dacol, has not been well understood yet. Focused impedance measurement Focused Impedance **Measurement** (FIM) is a recent technique for quantifying the electrical resistance in tissues of the human body with improved zone localization compared to conventional methods. This method was proposed and devel...
768. ...ysics and Technology" of University of Dhaka under the supervision of Prof. Khondkar Siddique-e-Rabbani; who first introduced the idea. FIM can be considered a bridge between Four Electrode Impedance **Measurement** (FEIM) and Electrical impedance Tomography (EIT), and provides a middle ground in terms of simplicity and accuracy. Many biological parameters and processes can be detected and monitored through thei...
769. ...phy (EIT), and provides a middle ground in terms of simplicity and accuracy. Many biological parameters and processes can be detected and monitored through their effects on bioimpedance. Bioimpedance **measurement** can be performed with a few simple instruments and non-invasively. Measurement of electrical impedance to obtain physiological or diagnostic information has been of interest to researchers for many y...
770. ...ny biological parameters and processes can be detected and monitored through their effects on bioimpedance. Bioimpedance measurement can be performed with a few simple instruments and non-invasively. **Measurement** of electrical impedance to obtain physiological or diagnostic information has been of interest to researchers for many years. However, the human body is geometrically and conductively uneven, with va...
771. ...des difficult and unreliable. Identifying zones with specific impedances can provide greater certainty regarding the factors behind the impedance. Conventional Four Electrode or Tetra-polar Impedance **Measurement** (TPIM) is simple, but the zone of sensitivity is not well defined and may include organs other that those of interest, making interpretation difficult and unreliable. On the other hand, Electrical im...
772. ...olism. Historically light was measured in the units of luminous intensity (candelas), luminance (candelas/m) and illuminance (lumen/m). After the discovery of ipRGCs in 2002 additional units of light **measurement** have been researched in order to better estimate the impact of different inputs of the spectrum of light on various photoreceptors. However, due to the variability in sensitivity between rods, cones...
773. ...d direction and sense, in this example, of the downward vertical. In this example, when the collected radiation is propagating in the downward sense, the detector is said to be "looking upwards". The **measurement** can be made directly with an instrument (such as a pyrgeometer) that collects the measured radiation all at once from all the directions of the imaginary hemisphere; in this case, Lambert-cosine-weig...
774. ...once from all the directions of the imaginary hemisphere; in this case, Lambert-cosine-weighted integration of the spectral radiance (or specific intensity) is not performed mathematically after the **measurement**; the Lambert-cosine-weighted integration has been performed by the physical process of measurement itself. In a flat horizontal uniformly layered radiative field, the hemispheric fluxes, upwards and...
775. ...tegration of the spectral radiance (or specific intensity) is not performed mathematically after the measurement; the Lambert-cosine-weighted integration has been performed by the physical process of **measurement** itself. In a flat horizontal uniformly layered radiative field, the hemispheric fluxes, upwards and downwards, at a point, can be subtracted to yield what is often called the net flux. The net flux t...
776. ...signal tracer. If the expected signal is absent or incorrect, some preceding stage of the electronics is not operating correctly. Since most failures occur because of a single faulty component, each **measurement** can show that some of the stages of a complex piece of equipment either work, or probably did not cause the fault. Once the faulty stage is found, further probing can usually tell a skilled technicia...
777. ...e are now called "analog" scopes to distinguish them from the "digital" scopes that became common in the 1990s and later. Analog scopes do not necessarily include a calibrated reference grid for size **measurement** of waves, and they may not display waves in the traditional sense of a line segment sweeping from left to right. Instead, they could be used for signal analysis by feeding a reference signal into one...
778. ...weeping from left to right. Instead, they could be used for signal analysis by feeding a reference signal into one axis and the signal to measure into the other axis. For an oscillating reference and **measurement** signal, this results in a complex looping pattern referred to as a Lissajous figure. The shape of the curve can be interpreted to identify properties of the measurement signal in relation to the refe...
779. ...r an oscillating reference and measurement signal, this results in a complex looping pattern referred to as a Lissajous figure. The shape of the curve can be interpreted to identify properties of the **measurement** signal in relation to the reference signal and is useful across a wide range of oscillation frequencies. The dual-beam analog oscilloscope can display two signals simultaneously. A special dual-beam...
780. ...cope is usually a digital sampling oscilloscope, using a liquid crystal display. Many handheld and bench oscilloscopes have the ground reference voltage common to all input channels. If more than one **measurement** channel is used at the same time, all the input signals must have the same voltage reference, and the shared default reference is the "earth". If there is no differential preamplifier or external sig...
781. ...rongly advise against it.) Some models of oscilloscope have isolated inputs, where the signal reference level terminals are not connected together. Each input channel can be used to make a "floating" **measurement** with an independent signal reference level. Measurements can be made without tying one side of the oscilloscope input to the circuit signal common or ground reference. The isolation available is cate...
782. ...nals over time in an "X"‑"Y" display. Other instruments convert the results of their measurements to a repetitive electrical signal, and incorporate an oscilloscope as a display element. Such complex **measurement** systems include spectrum analyzers, transistor analyzers, and time domain reflectometers (TDRs). Unlike an oscilloscope, these instruments automatically generate stimulus or sweep a measurement param...
783. ...mplex measurement systems include spectrum analyzers, transistor analyzers, and time domain reflectometers (TDRs). Unlike an oscilloscope, these instruments automatically generate stimulus or sweep a **measurement** parameter. Electromechanical modeling The purpose of electromechanical modeling is to model and simulate an electromechanical system, such that its physical parameters can be examined before the actu...
784. ...Brüel & Kjær launched Type 4301 - the world's first charge accelerometer. Piezoelectric accelerometers are used in many different industries, environments, and applications - all typically requiring **measurement** of short duration impulses. Piezoelectric measuring devices are widely used today in the laboratory, on the production floor, and as original equipment for measuring and recording dynamic changes in...
785. ...a metric might only consider the electrical power delivered to a machine directly, while another might include all power necessary to run a computer, such as cooling and monitoring systems. The power **measurement** is often the average power used while running the benchmark, but other measures of power usage may be employed (e.g. peak power, idle power). For example, the early UNIVAC I computer performed approx...
786. ...ach P/N couple can provide a specific heat pumping (Q) at a specific temperature differential (ΔT) at a given electric current. Temperature sensors on the chip (“on board” sensors) can provide direct **measurement** of the thermal bump performance and provide feedback to the driver circuit. Since thermal bumps can either cool or heat the chip depending on the current direction, they can be used to provide precis...
787. ...eters because they require charge transfer to the voltmeter, thus causing loading and modification of the source voltage. For example, when measuring voltage distribution on a dielectric surface, any **measurement** technique that requires charge transfer, no matter how small, will modify or destroy the actual data. In practice, an electrostatic charge monitoring probe is placed close (1 mm to 5 mm) to the surfa...
788. ...probe is placed close (1 mm to 5 mm) to the surface to be measured, and the probe body is driven to the same potential as the measured unknown by an electronic circuit. This achieves a high-accuracy **measurement** that is virtually insensitive to variations in probe-to-surface distances. The technique also prevents arc-over between the probe and measured surface when measuring high voltages. The operating prin...
789. ...observed from the study of large apparent polar wander datasets which, when corrected for the motion of the magnetic pole, display this polar wander. Modern polar wander can be evaluated from precise **measurement** using stars or satellite measurements, however filtering to remove the Chandler wobble of the Earth is required. The formation of supercontinents could initiate a faster polar wander. That is, becaus...
790. ...seful electrochemical information. To access the steady-state region, the scan rate must be lowered. However, as scan rates are slowed, the current also drops, which can reduce the reliability of the **measurement**. The low ratio of diffusion layer volume to electrode surface area means that regular working electrodes can yield unreliable current measurements at low scan rates. In contrast, the ratio of diffusi...
791. ...ded for electronic component measurements.) Handheld LCR meters typically have selectable test frequencies of 100 Hz, 120 Hz, 1 kHz, 10 kHz, and 100 kHz for top end meters. The display resolution and **measurement** range capability will typically change with the applied test frequency since the circuitry is more sensitive or less for a given component (i.e., an inductor or capacitor) as the test frequency chang...
792. ...s, M. Key, and S. Majumdar realized a TLP-based laser-triggered spark gap for kilovolt pulses of accurately variable timing in 1969. For investigation of ESD and electrical-overstress (EOS) effects a **measurement** system using a TLP generator has been introduced first by T. Maloney and N. Khurana in 1985. Since then, the technique has become indispensable for integrated circuit ESD protection development. The...
793. ...s in applications of superconducting materials – despite zero resistance they cannot carry unlimited quantities of electric power. The geometry of the superconducting sample complicates the practical **measurement** of the critical field – the critical field is defined for a cylindrical sample with the field parallel to the axis of radial symmetry. With other shapes (spherical, for example), there may be a mixed...
794. ...ittle current is drawn from the source of the unknown voltage. Since the reference voltage can be produced from an accurately calibrated voltage divider, a potentiometer can provide high precision in **measurement**. The method was described by Johann Christian Poggendorff around 1841 and became a standard laboratory measuring technique. In this arrangement, a fraction of a known voltage from a resistive slide w...
795. ...e calculated from the position of the sliding contact. This null balance measuring method is still important in electrical metrology and standards work and is also used in other areas of electronics. **Measurement** potentiometers are divided into four main classes listed below. The principle of a potentiometer is that the potential dropped across a segment of a wire of uniform cross-section carrying a constant...
796. ...thermal emf. This equipment is satisfactorily used down to readings of 1000 nV or so. Another development of the standard types was the 'thermocouple potentiometer' especially adapted for temperature **measurement** with thermocouples. Potentiometers for use with thermocouples also measure the temperature at which the thermocouple wires are connected, so that cold-junction compensation may be applied to correct...
797. ...ect the apparent measured EMF to the standard cold-junction temperature of 0 degrees C. To make a potentiometric determination of an analyte in a solution, the potential of the cell is measured. This **measurement** must be corrected for the reference and junction potentials. It can also be used in standardisation methods. The concentration of the analyte can then be calculated from the Nernst Equation. Many var...
798. ...this basic principle exist for quantitative measurements. A metre bridge is a simple type of potentiometer which may be used in school science laboratories to demonstrate the principle of resistance **measurement** by potentiometric means. A resistance wire is laid along the length of a metre rule and contact with the wire is made through a galvanometer by a slider. When the galvanometer reads zero, the ratio b...
799. ...(symbol μ or β) is the rest mass of the proton (a baryon found in atoms) divided by that of the electron (a lepton found in atoms), a dimensionless quantity, namely: The number in parentheses is the **measurement** uncertainty on the last two digits, corresponding to a relative standard uncertainty of  "μ" is an important fundamental physical constant because: Astrophysicists have tried to find evidence that "μ...
800. ...or AC resistance loads normally required to perform functional tests of batteries, power supplies or solar cells. By virtue of being programmable, tests like load regulation, battery discharge curve **measurement** and transient tests can be fully automated and load changes for these tests can be made without introducing switching transient that might change the measurement or operation of the power source unde...
801. ...d regulation, battery discharge curve measurement and transient tests can be fully automated and load changes for these tests can be made without introducing switching transient that might change the **measurement** or operation of the power source under test. Programmable loads most commonly use one transistor/FET, or an array of parallel connected transistors/FETs for more current handling, to act as a variabl...
802. ...for £150,000 funding and soon made a deal for sales worth £25 million. Bannatyne describes Chocbox as one of his best investments from the show. Radiation monitoring Radiation monitoring involves the **measurement** of radiation dose or radionuclide contamination for reasons related to the assessment or control of exposure to radiation or radioactive substances, and the interpretation of the results. Environment...
803. ...radionuclide contamination for reasons related to the assessment or control of exposure to radiation or radioactive substances, and the interpretation of the results. Environmental monitoring is the **measurement** of external dose rates due to sources in the environment or of radionuclide concentrations in environmental media. Source monitoring is a specific term used in ionising radiation monitoring, and acco...
804. ...e to sources in the environment or of radionuclide concentrations in environmental media. Source monitoring is a specific term used in ionising radiation monitoring, and according to the IAEA, is the **measurement** of activity in radioactive material being released to the environment or of external dose rates due to sources within a facility or activity. In this context a source is anything that may cause radia...
805. ...and systems for different radionuclides, environmental media and types of facility are given in IAEA Safety Standards Series No. RS–G-1.8 and in IAEA Safety Reports Series No. 64. Practical radiation **measurement** using calibrated radiation protection instruments is essential in evaluating the effectiveness of protection measures, and in assessing the radiation dose likely to be received by individuals. The me...
806. ...talled on trolleys to allow easy deployment, and are associated with temporary operational situations. In the United Kingdom the HSE has issued a user guidance note on selecting the correct radiation **measurement** instrument for the application concerned. This covers all radiation instrument technologies, and is a useful comparative guide. A number of commonly used detection instruments are listed below. The l...
807. ...ons are made with co-axial topology. Connecting an input and output terminal is not allowable with normal bridge topology, so Twin-T is used where a bridge would otherwise be used for balance or null **measurement** applications. The topology is also used in the twin-T oscillator as a sine-wave generator. The lower part of figure 1.11 shows twin-T topology redrawn to emphasise the connection with bridge topology...
808. ...a class of practical problems that can be modelled by infinitesimal elements (the distributed-element model). Other examples are launching waves into a continuous medium, fringing field problems, and **measurement** of resistance between points of a substrate or down a borehole. Transfinite networks extend the idea of infinite networks even further. A node at an extremity of an infinite network can have another...
809. ...escribed in . As shown in figure 1 from the patent, a digital AC monitor is attached to the single-phase power going into a residence. Changes in the voltage and current are measured (i.e. admittance **measurement** unit), normalized (scaler) and recorded (net change detector unit). A cluster analysis is then performed to identify when different appliances are turned on and off. If a 60-watt bulb is turned on, f...
810. ...is balanced, otherwise subsequent two coordinate calculations will be erroneous. This is a practical consideration in applications where the three phase quantities are measured and can possibly have **measurement** error. The formula_34 transform is conceptually similar to the formula_1 transform. Whereas the formula_34 transform is the projection of the phase quantities onto a rotating two-axis reference frame...
811. ...mplifier the device can read only the frequency corresponding to the magnetic field, ignoring many other sources of noise. A Scanning SQUID Microscope is a sensitive near-field imaging system for the **measurement** of weak magnetic fields by moving a Superconducting Quantum Interference Device (SQUID) across an area. The microscope can map out buried current-carrying wires by measuring the magnetic fields produ...
812. ...umber of Cl. Liquid junction potential is the difference between the two EMFs of the two concentration cells, with and without ionic transport: The liquid junction potential interferes with the exact **measurement** of the electromotive force of a chemical cell, so its effect should be minimized as much as possible for accurate measurement. The most common method of eliminating the liquid junction potential is t...
813. ...ionic transport: The liquid junction potential interferes with the exact measurement of the electromotive force of a chemical cell, so its effect should be minimized as much as possible for accurate **measurement**. The most common method of eliminating the liquid junction potential is to place a salt bridge consisting of a saturated solution of potassium chloride (KCl) and ammonium nitrate (NHNO) with lithium...
814. ...e to that object (or if the object is moving in a given frame of reference). Most practical measurements are carried out on moving electrons. If the electron is moving at a relativistic velocity, any **measurement** must use the correct expression for mass. Such correction becomes substantial for electrons accelerated by voltages of over . For example, the relativistic expression for the total energy, , of an el...
815. .... Thomson showed that cathode rays consist of streams of particles, to be called electrons, and made more precise measurements of their mass-to-charge ratio again using a cathode ray tube. The second **measurement** was of the charge of the electron. This was determined with a precision of better than 1% by Robert A. Millikan in his oil drop experiment in 1909. Together with the mass-to-charge ratio, the electro...
816. ...ed below for hydrogen 1 and oxygen 16. The principle can be shown by the determination of the electron relative atomic mass by Farnham "et al." at the University of Washington (1995). It involves the **measurement** of the frequencies of the cyclotron radiation emitted by electrons and by ions in a Penning trap. The ratio of the two frequencies is equal to six times the inverse ratio of the masses of the two par...
817. ...nization energies of carbon) is : . This value is then used to calculate a new approximation to "A"(e), and the process repeated until the values no longer vary (given the relative uncertainty of the **measurement**, 2.1): this happens by the fourth cycle of iterations for these results, giving for these data. Applications of capacitors Capacitors have many uses in electronic and electrical systems. They are so...
818. ...e the structure of the capacitor; the resulting change in capacitance can be used to sense those factors. The effects of varying the characteristics of the dielectric can also be used for sensing and **measurement**. Capacitors with an exposed and porous dielectric can be used to measure humidity in air. Capacitors are used to accurately measure the fuel level in airplanes; as the fuel covers more of a pair of p...
819. ...tional broadbeam exposures. Microbeam techniques can overcome this limitation by delivering an exact number (one or more) of particles per cell nucleus. True single-particle irradiations should allow **measurement** of the effects of exactly one alpha particle traversal, relative to multiple traversals. The application of such systems to low frequency processes such as oncogenic transformation depends very much...
820. ...communicating with a smart meter, or by direct connection to the electrical system. Some, but not all, plugin units store their readings when not connected. The display portion may be remote from the **measurement**, communicating with the sensor using a cable, network, power line communications, or using radio. Online displays are also available which allow the user to use an internet connected display to show...

=== SPIN (1205 occurrences) ===
1. ...eaking the picture is the following: An electron moving through a conductor will attract nearby positive charges in the lattice. This deformation of the lattice causes another electron, with opposite **spin**, to move into the region of higher positive charge density. The two electrons then become correlated. Because there are a lot of such electron pairs in a superconductor, these pairs overlap very stro...
2. ...13 times Pauli paramagnetic susceptibility, where formula_14 is the Bohr magneton and formula_15 is the density of states (number of states per energy per volume). This formula takes into account the **spin** degeneracy of the carriers (spin-1/2 electrons). In doped semiconductors the ratio between Landau and Pauli susceptibilities may change due to the effective mass of the charge carriers differing from...
3. ...ptibility, where formula_14 is the Bohr magneton and formula_15 is the density of states (number of states per energy per volume). This formula takes into account the spin degeneracy of the carriers (**spin**-1/2 electrons). In doped semiconductors the ratio between Landau and Pauli susceptibilities may change due to the effective mass of the charge carriers differing from the electron mass in vacuum, inc...
4. ...etic north pole is the "south" pole (south-seeking pole) of its dipole moment and vice versa. The only known mechanisms for the creation of magnetic dipoles are by current loops or quantum-mechanical **spin** since the existence of magnetic monopoles has never been experimentally demonstrated. A "physical dipole" consists of two equal and opposite point charges: in the literal sense, two poles. Its field...
5. ...order-1 term in the multipole expansion is precisely the point dipole field. Although there are no known magnetic monopoles in nature, there are magnetic dipoles in the form of the quantum-mechanical **spin** associated with particles such as electrons (although the accurate description of such effects falls outside of classical electromagnetism). A theoretical magnetic "point dipole" has a magnetic field...
6. ...es because they have no known components or substructure. The electron's mass is approximately that of the proton. Quantum mechanical properties of the electron include an intrinsic angular momentum (**spin**) of a half-integer value, expressed in units of the reduced Planck constant, . Being fermions, no two electrons can occupy the same quantum state, per the Pauli exclusion principle. Like all elementa...
7. ...it, possesses an intrinsic angular momentum and magnetic dipole moment. This is analogous to the rotation of the Earth on its axis as it orbits the Sun. The intrinsic angular momentum became known as **spin**, and explained the previously mysterious splitting of spectral lines observed with a high-resolution spectrograph; this phenomenon is known as fine structure splitting. In his 1924 dissertation "" (R...
8. ...ivations of the energy states of an electron in a hydrogen atom that were equivalent to those that had been derived first by Bohr in 1913, and that were known to reproduce the hydrogen spectrum. Once **spin** and the interaction between multiple electrons were describable, quantum mechanics made it possible to predict the configuration of electrons in atoms with atomic numbers greater than hydrogen. In 19...
9. ...of any type) and belong to the first generation of fundamental particles. The second and third generation contain charged leptons, the muon and the tau, which are identical to the electron in charge, **spin** and interactions, but are more massive. Leptons differ from the other basic constituent of matter, the quarks, by their lack of strong interaction. All members of the lepton group are fermions becaus...
10. ...assive. Leptons differ from the other basic constituent of matter, the quarks, by their lack of strong interaction. All members of the lepton group are fermions because they all have half-odd integer **spin**; the electron has spin . The invariant mass of an electron is approximately , or . Due to mass–energy equivalence, this corresponds to a rest energy of . The ratio between the mass of a proton and th...
11. ...from the other basic constituent of matter, the quarks, by their lack of strong interaction. All members of the lepton group are fermions because they all have half-odd integer spin; the electron has **spin** . The invariant mass of an electron is approximately , or . Due to mass–energy equivalence, this corresponds to a rest energy of . The ratio between the mass of a proton and that of an electron is ab...
12. ...arge is identical to the charge of a proton, but with the opposite sign. The electron is commonly symbolized by , and the positron is symbolized by . The electron has an intrinsic angular momentum or **spin** of . This property is usually stated by referring to the electron as a spin-1/2 particle. For such particles the spin magnitude is , while the result of the measurement of a projection of the spin on...
13. ...electron is commonly symbolized by , and the positron is symbolized by . The electron has an intrinsic angular momentum or spin of . This property is usually stated by referring to the electron as a **spin**-1/2 particle. For such particles the spin magnitude is , while the result of the measurement of a projection of the spin on any axis can only be ±. In addition to spin, the electron has an intrinsic...
14. ...the positron is symbolized by . The electron has an intrinsic angular momentum or spin of . This property is usually stated by referring to the electron as a spin-1/2 particle. For such particles the **spin** magnitude is , while the result of the measurement of a projection of the spin on any axis can only be ±. In addition to spin, the electron has an intrinsic magnetic moment along its spin axis. It is...
15. ...or spin of . This property is usually stated by referring to the electron as a spin-1/2 particle. For such particles the spin magnitude is , while the result of the measurement of a projection of the **spin** on any axis can only be ±. In addition to spin, the electron has an intrinsic magnetic moment along its spin axis. It is approximately equal to one Bohr magneton,=\frac{e\hbar}{2m_{\mathrm{e}}}</math...
16. ...referring to the electron as a spin-1/2 particle. For such particles the spin magnitude is , while the result of the measurement of a projection of the spin on any axis can only be ±. In addition to **spin**, the electron has an intrinsic magnetic moment along its spin axis. It is approximately equal to one Bohr magneton,=\frac{e\hbar}{2m_{\mathrm{e}}}</math>}} which is a physical constant that is equal...
17. ...rticles the spin magnitude is , while the result of the measurement of a projection of the spin on any axis can only be ±. In addition to spin, the electron has an intrinsic magnetic moment along its **spin** axis. It is approximately equal to one Bohr magneton,=\frac{e\hbar}{2m_{\mathrm{e}}}</math>}} which is a physical constant that is equal to The orientation of the spin with respect to the momentum of...
18. ...insic magnetic moment along its spin axis. It is approximately equal to one Bohr magneton,=\frac{e\hbar}{2m_{\mathrm{e}}}</math>}} which is a physical constant that is equal to The orientation of the **spin** with respect to the momentum of the electron defines the property of elementary particles known as helicity. The electron has no known substructure. Nevertheless, in condensed matter physics, spin–ch...
19. ...he spin with respect to the momentum of the electron defines the property of elementary particles known as helicity. The electron has no known substructure. Nevertheless, in condensed matter physics, **spin**–charge separation can occur in some materials. In such cases, electrons 'split' into three independent particles, the spinon, the orbiton and the holon (or chargon). The electron can always be theore...
20. ...' into three independent particles, the spinon, the orbiton and the holon (or chargon). The electron can always be theoretically considered as a bound state of the three, with the spinon carrying the **spin** of the electron, the orbiton carrying the orbital degree of freedom and the chargon carrying the charge, but in certain conditions they can behave as independent quasiparticles. The issue of the radi...
21. ...euristically be thought of as causing the electron to shift about in a jittery fashion (known as zitterbewegung), which results in a net circular motion with precession. This motion produces both the **spin** and the magnetic moment of the electron. In atoms, this creation of virtual photons explains the Lamb shift observed in spectral lines. The Compton Wavelength shows that near elementary particles suc...
22. ...omentum, and only a discrete set of these orbitals exist around the nucleus. According to the Pauli exclusion principle each orbital can be occupied by up to two electrons, which must differ in their **spin** quantum number. Electrons can transfer between different orbitals by the emission or absorption of photons with an energy that matches the difference in potential. Other methods of orbital transfer i...
23. ...zed. Because the electron is charged, it produces an orbital magnetic moment that is proportional to the angular momentum. The net magnetic moment of an atom is equal to the vector sum of orbital and **spin** magnetic moments of all electrons and the nucleus. The magnetic moment of the nucleus is negligible compared with that of the electrons. The magnetic moments of the electrons that occupy the same orb...
24. ...als also behave as if they were free. In reality the particles that are commonly termed electrons in metals and other solids are quasi-electrons—quasiparticles, which have the same electrical charge, **spin**, and magnetic moment as real electrons but might have a different mass. When free electrons—both in vacuum and metals—move, they produce a net flow of charge called an electric current, which generat...
25. ...i-particles themselves, when tightly confined at temperatures close to absolute zero, behave as though they had split into three other quasiparticles: spinons, orbitons and holons. The former carries **spin** and magnetic moment, the next carries its orbital location while the latter electrical charge. According to Einstein's theory of special relativity, as an electron's speed approaches the speed of lig...
26. ...nce to be determined. In laboratory conditions, the interactions of individual electrons can be observed by means of particle detectors, which allow measurement of specific properties such as energy, **spin** and charge. The development of the Paul trap and Penning trap allows charged particles to be contained within a small region for long durations. This enables precise measurements of the particle prop...
27. ...s to propel electrons and their antiparticles to high energies. These particles emit synchrotron radiation as they pass through magnetic fields. The dependency of the intensity of this radiation upon **spin** polarizes the electron beam—a process known as the Sokolov–Ternov effect. Polarized electron beams can be useful for various experiments. Synchrotron radiation can also cool the electron beams to red...
28. ...together. Electric forces also allow different atoms to combine into molecules, including the macromolecules such as proteins that form the basis of life. Meanwhile, magnetic interactions between the **spin** and angular momentum magnetic moments of electrons also play a role in chemical reactivity; such relationships are studied in spin chemistry. Electromagnetism also plays several crucial roles in mode...
29. ...form the basis of life. Meanwhile, magnetic interactions between the spin and angular momentum magnetic moments of electrons also play a role in chemical reactivity; such relationships are studied in **spin** chemistry. Electromagnetism also plays several crucial roles in modern technology: electrical energy production, transformation and distribution; light, heat, and sound production and detection; fibe...
30. ...form of material magnetism, including ferromagnetism; the explanation rather depends on the quantum mechanical description of atoms. Each of an atom's electrons has a magnetic moment according to its **spin** state, as described by quantum mechanics. The Pauli exclusion principle, also a consequence of quantum mechanics, restricts the occupancy of electrons' spin states in atomic orbitals, generally causi...
31. ...ons has a magnetic moment according to its spin state, as described by quantum mechanics. The Pauli exclusion principle, also a consequence of quantum mechanics, restricts the occupancy of electrons' **spin** states in atomic orbitals, generally causing the magnetic moments from an atom's electrons to largely or completely cancel. An atom will have a "net" magnetic moment when that cancellation is incompl...
32. ...hat it has a magnetic dipole moment, i.e., it behaves like a tiny magnet, producing a magnetic field. This dipole moment comes from a more fundamental property of the electron: its quantum mechanical **spin**. Due to its quantum nature, the spin of the electron can be in one of only two states, with the magnetic field either pointing "up" or "down" (for any choice of up and down). Electron spin in atoms i...
33. ...i.e., it behaves like a tiny magnet, producing a magnetic field. This dipole moment comes from a more fundamental property of the electron: its quantum mechanical spin. Due to its quantum nature, the **spin** of the electron can be in one of only two states, with the magnetic field either pointing "up" or "down" (for any choice of up and down). Electron spin in atoms is the main source of ferromagnetism,...
34. ...mechanical spin. Due to its quantum nature, the spin of the electron can be in one of only two states, with the magnetic field either pointing "up" or "down" (for any choice of up and down). Electron **spin** in atoms is the main source of ferromagnetism, although there is also a contribution from the orbital angular momentum of the electron about the nucleus. When these magnetic dipoles in a piece of mat...
35. ...ther to create a much larger macroscopic field. However, materials made of atoms with filled electron shells have a total dipole moment of zero: because the electrons all exist in pairs with opposite **spin**, every electron's magnetic moment is cancelled by the opposite moment of the second electron in the pair. Only atoms with partially filled shells (i.e., unpaired spins) can have a net magnetic moment...
36. ...a net magnetic moment, so ferromagnetism occurs only in materials with partially filled shells. Because of Hund's rules, the first few electrons in an otherwise unoccupied shell tend to have the same **spin**, thereby increasing the total dipole moment. These unpaired dipoles (often called simply "spins", even though they also generally include orbital angular momentum) tend to align in parallel to an ext...
37. ...lomb (electrostatic) interaction and thus the energy difference between these states. The exchange interaction is related to the Pauli exclusion principle, which says that two electrons with the same **spin** cannot also be in the same spatial state (orbital). This is a consequence of the spin–statistics theorem and that electrons are fermions. Therefore, under certain conditions, when the orbitals of the...
38. ...The exchange interaction is related to the Pauli exclusion principle, which says that two electrons with the same spin cannot also be in the same spatial state (orbital). This is a consequence of the **spin**–statistics theorem and that electrons are fermions. Therefore, under certain conditions, when the orbitals of the unpaired outer valence electrons from adjacent atoms overlap, the distributions of th...
39. ...pins than when they have opposite spins. This reduces the electrostatic energy of the electrons when their spins are parallel compared to their energy when the spins are antiparallel, so the parallel-**spin** state is more stable. This difference in energy is called the exchange energy. In simple terms, the outer electrons of adjacent atoms, which repel each other, can move further apart by aligning their...
40. ...me aligned with their neighbors. The Curie temperature itself is a critical point, where the magnetic susceptibility is theoretically infinite and, although there is no net magnetization, domain-like **spin** correlations fluctuate at all length scales. The study of ferromagnetic phase transitions, especially via the simplified Ising spin model, had an important impact on the development of statistical ph...
41. ...y infinite and, although there is no net magnetization, domain-like spin correlations fluctuate at all length scales. The study of ferromagnetic phase transitions, especially via the simplified Ising **spin** model, had an important impact on the development of statistical physics. There, it was first clearly shown that mean field theory approaches failed to predict the correct behavior at the critical po...
42. ...ce of large magnetic field strength and low temperature, one can observe the quantum Hall effect, in which the Hall conductance undergoes quantum Hall transitions to take on the quantized values. The **spin** Hall effect consists in the spin accumulation on the lateral boundaries of a current-carrying sample. No magnetic field is needed. It was predicted by Mikhail Dyakonov and V. I. Perel in 1971 and obs...
43. ...th and low temperature, one can observe the quantum Hall effect, in which the Hall conductance undergoes quantum Hall transitions to take on the quantized values. The spin Hall effect consists in the **spin** accumulation on the lateral boundaries of a current-carrying sample. No magnetic field is needed. It was predicted by Mikhail Dyakonov and V. I. Perel in 1971 and observed experimentally more than 30...
44. ...I. Perel in 1971 and observed experimentally more than 30 years later, both in semiconductors and in metals, at cryogenic as well as at room temperatures. The quantity describing the strength of the **Spin** Hall effect is known as Spin Hall angle, and it is defined as: formula_11 Where formula_12 is the spin current generated by the applied current density formula_13. For mercury telluride two dimension...
45. ...d experimentally more than 30 years later, both in semiconductors and in metals, at cryogenic as well as at room temperatures. The quantity describing the strength of the Spin Hall effect is known as **Spin** Hall angle, and it is defined as: formula_11 Where formula_12 is the spin current generated by the applied current density formula_13. For mercury telluride two dimensional quantum wells with strong...
46. ...etals, at cryogenic as well as at room temperatures. The quantity describing the strength of the Spin Hall effect is known as Spin Hall angle, and it is defined as: formula_11 Where formula_12 is the **spin** current generated by the applied current density formula_13. For mercury telluride two dimensional quantum wells with strong spin-orbit coupling, in zero magnetic field, at low temperature, the quant...
47. ...Hall angle, and it is defined as: formula_11 Where formula_12 is the spin current generated by the applied current density formula_13. For mercury telluride two dimensional quantum wells with strong **spin**-orbit coupling, in zero magnetic field, at low temperature, the quantum spin Hall effect has been observed in 2007. In ferromagnetic materials (and paramagnetic materials in a magnetic field), the Ha...
48. ...rrent generated by the applied current density formula_13. For mercury telluride two dimensional quantum wells with strong spin-orbit coupling, in zero magnetic field, at low temperature, the quantum **spin** Hall effect has been observed in 2007. In ferromagnetic materials (and paramagnetic materials in a magnetic field), the Hall resistivity includes an additional contribution, known as the anomalous Ha...
49. ...tures. Although a well-recognized phenomenon, there is still debate about its origins in the various materials. The anomalous Hall effect can be either an "extrinsic" (disorder-related) effect due to **spin**-dependent scattering of the charge carriers, or an "intrinsic" effect which can be described in terms of the Berry phase effect in the crystal momentum space (-space). The Hall effect in an ionized g...
50. ...ing light pressure to drive NEMS mechanisms and to flip nanometre-scale physical switches in integrated circuits is an active area of research. At larger scales, light pressure can cause asteroids to **spin** faster, acting on their irregular shapes as on the vanes of a windmill. The possibility of making solar sails that would accelerate spaceships in space is also under investigation. Although the motio...
51. ...etimes both. In 1924–1925, Satyendra Nath Bose showed that light followed different statistics from that of classical particles. With Einstein, they generalized this result for a whole set of integer **spin** particles called bosons (after Bose) that follow Bose–Einstein statistics. The photon is a massless boson of spin 1. In 1927, Paul Dirac quantized the electromagnetic field. Pascual Jordan and Vladim...
52. ...cal particles. With Einstein, they generalized this result for a whole set of integer spin particles called bosons (after Bose) that follow Bose–Einstein statistics. The photon is a massless boson of **spin** 1. In 1927, Paul Dirac quantized the electromagnetic field. Pascual Jordan and Vladimir Fock generalized this process to treat many-body systems as excitations of quantum fields, a process with the m...
53. ...ging), but "nuclear" was dropped to avoid negative associations. Certain atomic nuclei are able to absorb radio frequency (RF) energy when placed in an external magnetic field; the resultant evolving **spin** polarization can induce an RF signal in a radio frequency coil and thereby be detected. In other words, the nuclear magnetic spin of protons in the hydrogen nuclei resonates with the RF incident wave...
54. ...rgy when placed in an external magnetic field; the resultant evolving spin polarization can induce an RF signal in a radio frequency coil and thereby be detected. In other words, the nuclear magnetic **spin** of protons in the hydrogen nuclei resonates with the RF incident waves and emit coherent radiation with compact direction, energy (frequency) and phase. This coherent amplified radiation is easily de...
55. ...mans and other biological organisms, particularly in water and fat. For this reason, most MRI scans essentially map the location of water and fat in the body. Pulses of radio waves excite the nuclear **spin** energy transition, and magnetic field gradients localize the polarization in space. By varying the parameters of the pulse sequence, different contrasts may be generated between tissues based on the...
56. ...100 microtesla with highly sensitive superconducting quantum interference devices (SQUIDs). Each tissue returns to its equilibrium state after excitation by the independent relaxation processes of T (**spin**-lattice; that is, magnetization in the same direction as the static magnetic field) and T (spin-spin; transverse to the static magnetic field). To create a T-weighted image, magnetization is allowed...
57. ...tissue returns to its equilibrium state after excitation by the independent relaxation processes of T (spin-lattice; that is, magnetization in the same direction as the static magnetic field) and T (**spin**-spin; transverse to the static magnetic field). To create a T-weighted image, magnetization is allowed to recover before measuring the MR signal by changing the repetition time (TR). This image weigh...
58. ...ue returns to its equilibrium state after excitation by the independent relaxation processes of T (spin-lattice; that is, magnetization in the same direction as the static magnetic field) and T (spin-**spin**; transverse to the static magnetic field). To create a T-weighted image, magnetization is allowed to recover before measuring the MR signal by changing the repetition time (TR). This image weighting...
59. ...tization, a 90° radiofrequency (RF) pulse flips the direction of the magnetization vector in the xy-plane, and is then switched off. The initial magnetic field B, however, is still applied. Thus, the **spin** magnetization vector will slowly return from the xy-plane back to the equilibrium state. The time it takes for the magnetization vector to return to its equilibrium value, M, is referred to as the lo...
60. ...frequently imaged nucleus in MRI because it is present in biological tissues in great abundance, and because its high gyromagnetic ratio gives a strong signal. However, any nucleus with a net nuclear **spin** could potentially be imaged with MRI. Such nuclei include helium-3, lithium-7, carbon-13, fluorine-19, oxygen-17, sodium-23, phosphorus-31 and xenon-129. Na and P are naturally abundant in the body,...
61. ...ackground noise, and therefore increased contrast for the image itself, because these elements are not normally present in biological tissues. Moreover, the nucleus of any atom that has a net nuclear **spin** and that is bonded to a hydrogen atom could potentially be imaged via heteronuclear magnetization transfer MRI that would image the high-gyromagnetic-ratio hydrogen nucleus instead of the low-gyromag...
62. ...has a sensitivity of around 10 mol/L to 10 mol/L, which, compared to other types of imaging, can be very limiting. This problem stems from the fact that the population difference between the nuclear **spin** states is very small at room temperature. For example, at 1.5 teslas, a typical field strength for clinical MRI, the difference between high and low energy states is approximately 9 molecules per 2 m...
63. ...rial there are unpaired electrons; i.e., atomic or molecular orbitals with exactly one electron in them. While paired electrons are required by the Pauli exclusion principle to have their intrinsic ('**spin**') magnetic moments pointing in opposite directions, causing their magnetic fields to cancel out, an unpaired electron is free to align its magnetic moment in any direction. When an external magnetic...
64. ...ls, neighboring electrons prefer to point in opposite directions, but there is no geometrical arrangement in which "each" pair of neighbors is anti-aligned. This is called a canted antiferromagnet or **spin** ice and is an example of geometrical frustration. Like ferromagnetism, ferrimagnets retain their magnetization in the absence of a field. However, like antiferromagnets, neighboring pairs of electron...
65. ...originally believed to be a ferromagnet; Louis Néel disproved this, however, after discovering ferrimagnetism. When a ferromagnet or ferrimagnet is sufficiently small, it acts like a single magnetic **spin** that is subject to Brownian motion. Its response to a magnetic field is qualitatively similar to the response of a paramagnet, but much larger. Japanese physicist Yosuke Nagaoka conceived of a type o...
66. ...electrons in an electric current, or in certain cases from the orbital motion of electrons around an atom's nucleus. They also arise from "intrinsic" magnetic dipoles arising from quantum-mechanical **spin**. The same situations that create magnetic fields—charge moving in a current or in an atom, and intrinsic magnetic dipoles—are also the situations in which a magnetic field has an effect, creating a f...
67. ...hich is essential for the origin of magnetism, and which is stronger, roughly by factors 100 and even by 1000, than the energies arising from the electrodynamic dipole-dipole interaction. As for the "**spin** function" formula_21, which is responsible for the magnetism, we have the already mentioned Pauli's principle, namely that a symmetric orbital (i.e. with the + sign as above) must be multiplied with...
68. ...a_21, which is responsible for the magnetism, we have the already mentioned Pauli's principle, namely that a symmetric orbital (i.e. with the + sign as above) must be multiplied with an antisymmetric **spin** function (i.e. with a − sign), and "vice versa". Thus: I.e., not only formula_23 and formula_18 must be substituted by "α" and "β", respectively (the first entity means "spin up", the second one "spi...
69. ...ed with an antisymmetric spin function (i.e. with a − sign), and "vice versa". Thus: I.e., not only formula_23 and formula_18 must be substituted by "α" and "β", respectively (the first entity means "**spin** up", the second one "spin down"), but also the sign + by the − sign, and finally r by the discrete values "s" (= ±); thereby we have formula_25 and formula_26. The "singlet state", i.e. the − sign, m...
70. ...pin function (i.e. with a − sign), and "vice versa". Thus: I.e., not only formula_23 and formula_18 must be substituted by "α" and "β", respectively (the first entity means "spin up", the second one "**spin** down"), but also the sign + by the − sign, and finally r by the discrete values "s" (= ±); thereby we have formula_25 and formula_26. The "singlet state", i.e. the − sign, means: the spins are "antip...
71. ...ency to form a (homoeopolar) chemical bond (this means: the formation of a "symmetric" molecular orbital, i.e. with the + sign) results through the Pauli principle automatically in an "antisymmetric" **spin** state (i.e. with the − sign). In contrast, the Coulomb repulsion of the electrons, i.e. the tendency that they try to avoid each other by this repulsion, would lead to an "antisymmetric" orbital func...
72. .... the tendency that they try to avoid each other by this repulsion, would lead to an "antisymmetric" orbital function (i.e. with the − sign) of these two particles, and complementary to a "symmetric" **spin** function (i.e. with the + sign, one of the so-called "triplet functions"). Thus, now the spins would be "parallel" (ferromagnetism in a solid, paramagnetism in two-atomic gases). The last-mentioned t...
73. ...agnetotail, or the distant magnetic field. Magnetospheres are dependent on several variables: the type of astronomical object, the nature of sources of plasma and momentum, the period of the object's **spin**, the nature of the axis about which the object spins, the axis of the magnetic dipole, and the magnitude and direction of the flow of solar wind. The planetary distance where the magnetosphere can wi...
74. ...nduction motor. The rotating magnetic field that drove them was explained through a series of demonstrations including an "Egg of Columbus" that used the two-phase coil found in an induction motor to **spin** a copper egg making it stand on end. Tesla visited the fair for a week during its six-month run to attend the International Electrical Congress and put on a series of demonstrations at the Westinghou...
75. ...elementary particles are described as a necessary consequence of physical laws having a certain symmetry at every point in spacetime. The intrinsic properties of particles, such as charge, mass, and **spin**, are determined by gauge symmetry. The photon concept has led to momentous advances in experimental and theoretical physics, including lasers, Bose–Einstein condensation, quantum field theory, and th...
76. ...rmula_2) or inversely, its wavelength (): where is the wave vector, where Since formula_5 points in the direction of the photon's propagation, the magnitude of its momentum is The photon also carries **spin** angular momentum, which is related to photon polarization. (Beams of light also exhibit properties described as orbital angular momentum of light). The angular momentum of the photon has two possible...
77. ...Collections of photons in a light beam may have mixtures of these two values; a linearly polarized light beam will act as if it were composed of equal numbers of the two possible angular momenta. The **spin** angular momentum of light does not depend on its frequency, and was experimentally verified by C. V. Raman and S. Bhagavantam in 1931. The collision of a particle with its antiparticle can create pho...
78. ...n was observed experimentally in 1995. It was later used by Lene Hau to slow, and then completely stop, light in 1999 and 2001. The modern view on this is that photons are, by virtue of their integer **spin**, bosons (as opposed to fermions with half-integer spin). By the spin-statistics theorem, all bosons obey Bose–Einstein statistics (whereas all fermions obey Fermi–Dirac statistics). In 1916, Albert E...
79. ...d by Lene Hau to slow, and then completely stop, light in 1999 and 2001. The modern view on this is that photons are, by virtue of their integer spin, bosons (as opposed to fermions with half-integer **spin**). By the spin-statistics theorem, all bosons obey Bose–Einstein statistics (whereas all fermions obey Fermi–Dirac statistics). In 1916, Albert Einstein showed that Planck's radiation law could be der...
80. ...to slow, and then completely stop, light in 1999 and 2001. The modern view on this is that photons are, by virtue of their integer spin, bosons (as opposed to fermions with half-integer spin). By the **spin**-statistics theorem, all bosons obey Bose–Einstein statistics (whereas all fermions obey Fermi–Dirac statistics). In 1916, Albert Einstein showed that Planck's radiation law could be derived from a se...
81. ...quanta of an Abelian gauge field must be massless, uncharged bosons, as long as the symmetry is not broken; hence, the photon is predicted to be massless, and to have zero electric charge and integer **spin**. The particular form of the electromagnetic interaction specifies that the photon must have spin ±1; thus, its helicity must be formula_67. These two spin components correspond to the classical conce...
82. ...ot broken; hence, the photon is predicted to be massless, and to have zero electric charge and integer spin. The particular form of the electromagnetic interaction specifies that the photon must have **spin** ±1; thus, its helicity must be formula_67. These two spin components correspond to the classical concepts of right-handed and left-handed circularly polarized light. However, the transient virtual ph...
83. ...and to have zero electric charge and integer spin. The particular form of the electromagnetic interaction specifies that the photon must have spin ±1; thus, its helicity must be formula_67. These two **spin** components correspond to the classical concepts of right-handed and left-handed circularly polarized light. However, the transient virtual photons of quantum electrodynamics may also adopt unphysical...
84. ...magnetism is due to the presence of unpaired electrons in the material, so most atoms with incompletely filled atomic orbitals are paramagnetic, although exceptions such as copper exist. Due to their **spin**, unpaired electrons have a magnetic dipole moment and act like tiny magnets. An external magnetic field causes the electrons' spins to align parallel to the field, causing a net attraction. Paramagne...
85. ...rons, then the substance is paramagnetic. Unlike ferromagnets, paramagnets do not retain any magnetization in the absence of an externally applied magnetic field because thermal motion randomizes the **spin** orientations. (Some paramagnetic materials retain spin disorder even at absolute zero, meaning they are paramagnetic in the ground state, i.e. in the absence of thermal motion.) Thus the total magnet...
86. ...agnets, paramagnets do not retain any magnetization in the absence of an externally applied magnetic field because thermal motion randomizes the spin orientations. (Some paramagnetic materials retain **spin** disorder even at absolute zero, meaning they are paramagnetic in the ground state, i.e. in the absence of thermal motion.) Thus the total magnetization drops to zero when the applied field is removed...
87. ...rator itself. Constituent atoms or molecules of paramagnetic materials have permanent magnetic moments (dipoles), even in the absence of an applied field. The permanent moment generally is due to the **spin** of unpaired electrons in atomic or molecular electron orbitals (see Magnetic moment). In pure paramagnetism, the dipoles do not interact with one another and are randomly oriented in the absence of a...
88. ...moments by an applied field, which tries to align the dipoles parallel to the applied field. However, the true origins of the alignment can only be understood via the quantum-mechanical properties of **spin** and angular momentum. If there is sufficient energy exchange between neighbouring dipoles, they will interact, and may spontaneously align or anti-align and form magnetic domains, resulting in ferrom...
89. ...rons. Conductivity can be understood in a band structure picture as arising from the incomplete filling of energy bands. In an ordinary nonmagnetic conductor the conduction band is identical for both **spin**-up and spin-down electrons. When a magnetic field is applied, the conduction band splits apart into a spin-up and a spin-down band due to the difference in magnetic potential energy for spin-up and s...
90. ...tivity can be understood in a band structure picture as arising from the incomplete filling of energy bands. In an ordinary nonmagnetic conductor the conduction band is identical for both spin-up and **spin**-down electrons. When a magnetic field is applied, the conduction band splits apart into a spin-up and a spin-down band due to the difference in magnetic potential energy for spin-up and spin-down ele...
91. ...energy bands. In an ordinary nonmagnetic conductor the conduction band is identical for both spin-up and spin-down electrons. When a magnetic field is applied, the conduction band splits apart into a **spin**-up and a spin-down band due to the difference in magnetic potential energy for spin-up and spin-down electrons. Since the Fermi level must be identical for both bands, this means that there will be a...
92. ...In an ordinary nonmagnetic conductor the conduction band is identical for both spin-up and spin-down electrons. When a magnetic field is applied, the conduction band splits apart into a spin-up and a **spin**-down band due to the difference in magnetic potential energy for spin-up and spin-down electrons. Since the Fermi level must be identical for both bands, this means that there will be a small surplus...
93. ...for both spin-up and spin-down electrons. When a magnetic field is applied, the conduction band splits apart into a spin-up and a spin-down band due to the difference in magnetic potential energy for **spin**-up and spin-down electrons. Since the Fermi level must be identical for both bands, this means that there will be a small surplus of the type of spin in the band that moved downwards. This effect is...
94. ...n-up and spin-down electrons. When a magnetic field is applied, the conduction band splits apart into a spin-up and a spin-down band due to the difference in magnetic potential energy for spin-up and **spin**-down electrons. Since the Fermi level must be identical for both bands, this means that there will be a small surplus of the type of spin in the band that moved downwards. This effect is a weak form...
95. ...o the difference in magnetic potential energy for spin-up and spin-down electrons. Since the Fermi level must be identical for both bands, this means that there will be a small surplus of the type of **spin** in the band that moved downwards. This effect is a weak form of paramagnetism known as "Pauli paramagnetism". The effect always competes with a diamagnetic response of opposite sign due to all the co...
96. ...ty is given by formula_17 When orbital angular momentum contributions to the magnetic moment are small, as occurs for most organic radicals or for octahedral transition metal complexes with d or high-**spin** d configurations, the effective magnetic moment takes the form ( with g-factor "g" = 2.0023... ≈ 2), formula_18 where "N" is the number of unpaired electrons. In other transition metal complexes this...
97. ...tion between the electron spins and the magnetic field known as Pauli paramagnetism. For a small magnetic field formula_19, the additional energy per electron from the interaction between an electron **spin** and the magnetic field is given by: where formula_21 is the vacuum permeability, formula_22 is the electron magnetic moment, formula_23 is the Bohr magneton, formula_24 is the reduced Planck constant...
98. ...where formula_21 is the vacuum permeability, formula_22 is the electron magnetic moment, formula_23 is the Bohr magneton, formula_24 is the reduced Planck constant, and the g-factor cancels with the **spin** formula_25. The formula_26 indicates that the sign is positive (negative) when the electron spin component in the direction of formula_19 is parallel (antiparallel) to the magnetic field. For low tem...
99. ..._23 is the Bohr magneton, formula_24 is the reduced Planck constant, and the g-factor cancels with the spin formula_25. The formula_26 indicates that the sign is positive (negative) when the electron **spin** component in the direction of formula_19 is parallel (antiparallel) to the magnetic field. For low temperatures with respect to the Fermi temperature formula_28 (around 10 kelvins for metals), the nu...
100. ...effect and has to be contrasted with Landau diamagnetic susceptibility which is equal to minus one third of Pauli's and also comes from delocalized electrons. The Pauli susceptibility comes from the **spin** interaction with the magnetic field while the Landau susceptibility comes from the spatial motion of the electrons and it is independent of the spin. In doped semiconductors the ratio between Landau'...
101. ...electrons. The Pauli susceptibility comes from the spin interaction with the magnetic field while the Landau susceptibility comes from the spatial motion of the electrons and it is independent of the **spin**. In doped semiconductors the ratio between Landau's and Pauli's susceptibilities changes as the effective mass of the charge carriers formula_37 can differ from the electron mass formula_38. The magn...
102. ...open problem as the leading Drude model could not account for this contribution without the use of quantum statistics. Pauli paramagnetism and Landau diamagnetism are essentially applications of the **spin** and the free electron model, the first is due to intrinsic spin of electrons; the second is due to their orbital motion. Materials that are called "paramagnets" are most often those that exhibit, at...
103. ...his contribution without the use of quantum statistics. Pauli paramagnetism and Landau diamagnetism are essentially applications of the spin and the free electron model, the first is due to intrinsic **spin** of electrons; the second is due to their orbital motion. Materials that are called "paramagnets" are most often those that exhibit, at least over an appreciable temperature range, magnetic susceptibi...
104. ...that 731,461 tonnes PVC were recycled in 2020, a 5% reduction compared to 2019 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Positron The positron or antielectron is the particle with an electric charge of +1"e", a **spin** of 1/2 (the same as the electron), and the same mass as an electron. It is the antiparticle (antimatter counterpart) of the electron. When a positron collides with an electron, annihilation occurs. I...
105. ...ing that electrons can have both a positive and negative charge. This paper introduced the Dirac equation, a unification of quantum mechanics, special relativity, and the then-new concept of electron **spin** to explain the Zeeman effect. The paper did not explicitly predict a new particle but did allow for electrons having either positive or negative energy as solutions. Hermann Weyl then published a pap...
106. ...problem." Mathematically, QED is an abelian gauge theory with the symmetry group U(1), defined on Minkowski space (flat spacetime). The gauge field, which mediates the interaction between the charged **spin**-1/2 fields, is the electromagnetic field. The QED Lagrangian for a spin-1/2 field interacting with the electromagnetic field in natural units gives rise to the action where Expanding the covariant de...
107. ...ry group U(1), defined on Minkowski space (flat spacetime). The gauge field, which mediates the interaction between the charged spin-1/2 fields, is the electromagnetic field. The QED Lagrangian for a **spin**-1/2 field interacting with the electromagnetic field in natural units gives rise to the action where Expanding the covariant derivative reveals a second useful form of the Lagrangian (external field...
108. ...iobium and carbon nanotubes, are Type I, while almost all impure and compound superconductors are Type II. Conversely, a spinning superconductor generates a magnetic field, precisely aligned with the **spin** axis. The effect, the London moment, was put to good use in Gravity Probe B. This experiment measured the magnetic fields of four superconducting gyroscopes to determine their spin axes. This was cri...
109. ...y aligned with the spin axis. The effect, the London moment, was put to good use in Gravity Probe B. This experiment measured the magnetic fields of four superconducting gyroscopes to determine their **spin** axes. This was critical to the experiment since it is one of the few ways to accurately determine the spin axis of an otherwise featureless sphere. Until 1986, physicists had believed that BCS theory...
110. ...xperiment measured the magnetic fields of four superconducting gyroscopes to determine their spin axes. This was critical to the experiment since it is one of the few ways to accurately determine the **spin** axis of an otherwise featureless sphere. Until 1986, physicists had believed that BCS theory forbade superconductivity at temperatures above about 30 K. In that year, Bednorz and Müller discovered su...
111. ...erconductivity in these materials is one of the major outstanding challenges of theoretical condensed matter physics. There are currently two main hypotheses – the resonating-valence-bond theory, and **spin** fluctuation which has the most support in the research community. The second hypothesis proposed that electron pairing in high-temperature superconductors is mediated by short-range spin waves known...
112. ...theory, and spin fluctuation which has the most support in the research community. The second hypothesis proposed that electron pairing in high-temperature superconductors is mediated by short-range **spin** waves known as paramagnons. In 2008, holographic superconductivity, which uses holographic duality or AdS/CFT correspondence theory, was proposed by Gubser, Hartnoll, Herzog, and Horowitz, as a possi...
113. ...of the nanoparticles is a single giant magnetic moment, sum of all the individual magnetic moments carried by the atoms of the nanoparticle. Those in the field of superparamagnetism call this "macro-**spin** approximation". Because of the nanoparticle’s magnetic anisotropy, the magnetic moment has usually only two stable orientations antiparallel to each other, separated by an energy barrier. The stable...
114. ...meet the generated power output, due to a load perturbation, this can cause the load to be larger than the rated power output of the generators. This for example can happen when wind generators don't **spin** due to a sudden lack of wind. This load perturbation can cause a load-frequency control problem. This problem can be amplified in DFIG-based wind power generators. This load disparity can be compensa...
115. ...FE) is a synthetic fluoropolymer of tetrafluoroethylene, and has numerous applications because it is chemically inert. The commonly known brand name of PTFE-based composition is Teflon by Chemours, a **spin**-off from DuPont, which originally discovered the compound in 1938.  Polytetrafluoroethylene is a fluorocarbon solid, as it is a high-molecular-weight polymer consisting wholly of carbon and fluorine....
116. ...DuPont used perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA, or C8) during production of PTFE, later discontinuing its use due to legal actions over ecotoxicological and the health effects of exposure to PFOA. Dupont's **spin**-off Chemours today manufactures PTFE using an alternative chemical it calls GenX, another PFAS. Although GenX was designed to be less persistent in the environment compared to PFOA, it has proven to...
117. ...be a “regrettable substitute”; its effects may be equally harmful or even more detrimental than those of the chemical it was meant to replace. The chemicals are manufactured by Chemours, a corporate **spin**-off of DuPont, in Fayetteville, North Carolina. Fayetteville Works was the site where DuPont began manufacture of PFOA after the lawsuit in Parkersburg WV halted their production there. When EPA aske...
118. ...ization field of the material. Magnetic fields are produced by moving electric charges and the intrinsic magnetic moments of elementary particles associated with a fundamental quantum property, their **spin**. Magnetic fields and electric fields are interrelated and are both components of the electromagnetic force, one of the four fundamental forces of nature. Magnetic fields are used throughout modern te...
119. ...to those electrons' orbital magnetic dipole moment, and these orbital moments do contribute to the magnetism seen at the macroscopic level. However, the motion of electrons is not classical, and the **spin** magnetic moment of electrons (which is not explained by either model) is also a significant contribution to the total moment of magnets. Historically, early physics textbooks would model the force an...
120. ...ic material placed inside a magnetic field, though, generates its own bound current, which can be a challenge to calculate. (This bound current is due to the sum of atomic sized current loops and the **spin** of the subatomic particles such as electrons that make up the material.) The -field as defined above helps factor out this bound current; but to see how, it helps to introduce the concept of "magneti...
121. ...and dust from which the Sun was formed, mass and angular momentum are both conserved. That conservation would imply that as the mass concentrated in the center of the cloud to form the Sun, it would **spin** faster, much like a skater pulling their arms in. The high speed of rotation predicted by early theories would have flung the proto-Sun apart before it could have formed. However, magnetohydrodynamic...
122. ...can also be viewed as streams of particles called photons. When viewed in this way, the polarization of an electromagnetic wave is determined by a quantum mechanical property of photons called their **spin**. A photon has one of two possible spins: it can either spin in a right hand sense or a left hand sense about its direction of travel. Circularly polarized electromagnetic waves are composed of photon...
123. ...When viewed in this way, the polarization of an electromagnetic wave is determined by a quantum mechanical property of photons called their spin. A photon has one of two possible spins: it can either **spin** in a right hand sense or a left hand sense about its direction of travel. Circularly polarized electromagnetic waves are composed of photons with only one type of spin, either right- or left-hand. Li...
124. ...o possible spins: it can either spin in a right hand sense or a left hand sense about its direction of travel. Circularly polarized electromagnetic waves are composed of photons with only one type of **spin**, either right- or left-hand. Linearly polarized waves consist of photons that are in a superposition of right and left circularly polarized states, with equal amplitude and phases synchronized to giv...
125. ...emergency power. By using a transmission gearbox, the rotational inertia of the flywheel can be used to directly start up a diesel engine, and once running, the diesel engine can be used to directly **spin** the flywheel. Multiple flywheels can likewise be connected in parallel through mechanical countershafts, without the need for separate motors and generators for each flywheel. They are normally desig...
126. ...cally an onium. Unlike hydrogen, the system has no protons. The system is unstable: the two particles annihilate each other to predominantly produce two or three gamma-rays, depending on the relative **spin** states. The energy levels of the two particles are similar to that of the hydrogen atom (which is a bound state of a proton and an electron). However, because of the reduced mass, the frequencies of...
127. ...ctrical resistance on the angle between the direction of electric current and direction of magnetization is observed. The effect arises in most cases from the simultaneous action of magnetization and **spin**–orbit interaction (exceptions related to non-collinear magnetic order notwithstanding) and its detailed mechanism depends on the material. It can be for example due to a larger probability of s-d sca...
128. ...aoul () derived an expression of the AMR ratio for Ni-based alloys using the two-current model with s-s and s-d scattering processes, where 's' is a conduction electron, and 'd' is 3d states with the **spin**-orbit interaction. The AMR ratio is expressed as formula_4 with formula_5 and formula_6, where formula_7, formula_8, and formula_9 are a spin-orbit coupling constant (so-called formula_10), an exchan...
129. ...' is a conduction electron, and 'd' is 3d states with the spin-orbit interaction. The AMR ratio is expressed as formula_4 with formula_5 and formula_6, where formula_7, formula_8, and formula_9 are a **spin**-orbit coupling constant (so-called formula_10), an exchange field, and a resistivity for spin formula_11, respectively. In addition, recently, Satoshi Kokado et al. have obtained the general expressi...
130. ...o is expressed as formula_4 with formula_5 and formula_6, where formula_7, formula_8, and formula_9 are a spin-orbit coupling constant (so-called formula_10), an exchange field, and a resistivity for **spin** formula_11, respectively. In addition, recently, Satoshi Kokado et al. have obtained the general expression of the AMR ratio for 3d transition-metal ferromagnets by extending the theory to a more gen...
131. ...was proposed that there was a quantum Hall effect without Landau levels. This quantum Hall effect is referred to as the quantum anomalous Hall (QAH) effect. There is also a new concept of the quantum **spin** Hall effect which is an analogue of the quantum Hall effect, where spin currents flow instead of charge currents. The quantization of the Hall conductance (formula_2) has the important property of be...
132. ...This quantum Hall effect is referred to as the quantum anomalous Hall (QAH) effect. There is also a new concept of the quantum spin Hall effect which is an analogue of the quantum Hall effect, where **spin** currents flow instead of charge currents. The quantization of the Hall conductance (formula_2) has the important property of being exceedingly precise. Actual measurements of the Hall conductance hav...
133. ...es with the same formula_32 but different formula_33 are degenerate. At zero field, the density of states per unit surface for the two-dimensional electron gas taking into account degeneration due to **spin** is independent of the energy As the field is turned on, the density of states collapses from the constant to a Dirac comb, a series of Dirac formula_37 functions, corresponding to the Landau levels s...
134. ...ny states as in a 2DEG in a formula_54. Given the fact that electrons are fermions, for each state available in the Landau levels it corresponds to two electrons, one electron with each value for the **spin** formula_55. However, if a large magnetic field is applied, the energies split into two levels due to the magnetic moment associated with the alignment of the spin with the magnetic field. The differe...
135. ...one electron with each value for the spin formula_55. However, if a large magnetic field is applied, the energies split into two levels due to the magnetic moment associated with the alignment of the **spin** with the magnetic field. The difference in the energies is formula_56 being formula_57 a factor which depends on the material (formula_58 for free electrons) and formula_59 the Bohr magneton. The sig...
136. ...ifference in the energies is formula_56 being formula_57 a factor which depends on the material (formula_58 for free electrons) and formula_59 the Bohr magneton. The sign formula_60 is taken when the **spin** is parallel to the field and formula_61 when it is antiparallel. This fact called spin splitting implies that the density of states for each level is reduced by a half. Note that formula_62 is propor...
137. ...material (formula_58 for free electrons) and formula_59 the Bohr magneton. The sign formula_60 is taken when the spin is parallel to the field and formula_61 when it is antiparallel. This fact called **spin** splitting implies that the density of states for each level is reduced by a half. Note that formula_62 is proportional to the magnetic field so, the larger the magnetic field is, the more relevant is...
138. ...bit Hall resistance in steps of the von Klitzing constant as which for the Bohr atom is linear but not inverse in the integer "n". Relativistic examples of the integer quantum Hall effect and quantum **spin** Hall effect arise in the context of lattice gauge theory. Technological applications of superconductivity Technological applications of superconductivity include: The biggest application for supercon...
139. ...the material, particularly on its electron configuration. Several forms of magnetic behavior have been observed in different materials, including: There are various other types of magnetism, such as **spin** glass, superparamagnetism, superdiamagnetism, and metamagnetism. The shape of a permanent magnet has a large influence on its magnetic properties. When a magnet is magnetized, a demagnetizing field w...
140. ...ble to a grain boundary corrosion problem it gives additional protection. Rare earth (lanthanoid) elements have a partially occupied "f" electron shell (which can accommodate up to 14 electrons). The **spin** of these electrons can be aligned, resulting in very strong magnetic fields, and therefore, these elements are used in compact high-strength magnets where their higher price is not a concern. The mos...
141. ..." superconductivity (HTS). There have been two representative theories on the HTS : (See also Resonating valence bond theory ) Firstly, it has been suggested that the HTS emerges by antiferromagnetic **spin** fluctuation in a doped system. According to this weak-coupling theory, the pairing wave function of the HTS should have a "d" symmetry. Thus, whether the symmetry of the pairing wave function is the...
142. ...ion of the HTS should have a "d" symmetry. Thus, whether the symmetry of the pairing wave function is the "d" symmetry or not is essential to demonstrate on the mechanism of the HTS in respect of the **spin** fluctuation. That is, if the HTS order parameter (pairing wave function) does not have "d" symmetry, then a pairing mechanism related to spin fluctuation can be ruled out. The "tunnel experiment" (se...
143. ...demonstrate on the mechanism of the HTS in respect of the spin fluctuation. That is, if the HTS order parameter (pairing wave function) does not have "d" symmetry, then a pairing mechanism related to **spin** fluctuation can be ruled out. The "tunnel experiment" (see below) seems to detect "d" symmetry in some HTS. Secondly, there is the interlayer coupling model, according to which a layered structure co...
144. ...e the local magnetic field around an atom and hence reflect the susceptibility of the material. They have been of special interest for the HTS materials because many researchers have wondered whether **spin** correlations might play a role in the mechanism of the HTS. NMR measurements of the resonance frequency on YBCO indicated that electrons in the copper oxide superconductors are paired in spin-singlet...
145. ...whether spin correlations might play a role in the mechanism of the HTS. NMR measurements of the resonance frequency on YBCO indicated that electrons in the copper oxide superconductors are paired in **spin**-singlet states. This indication came from the behavior of the Knight shift, the frequency shift that occurs when the internal field is different from the applied field: In a normal metal, the magneti...
146. ...n applied field. However, the fundamental origins of diamagnetism in superconductors and normal materials are very different. In normal materials diamagnetism arises as a direct result of the orbital **spin** of electrons about the nuclei of an atom induced electromagnetically by the application of an applied field. In superconductors the illusion of perfect diamagnetism arises from persistent screening c...
147. ...n applied field. In superconductors the illusion of perfect diamagnetism arises from persistent screening currents which flow to oppose the applied field (the Meissner effect); not solely the orbital **spin**. The discovery of the Meissner effect led to the phenomenological theory of superconductivity by Fritz and Heinz London in 1935. This theory explained resistanceless transport and the Meissner effect...
148. ...ple hit with high energy, circularly polarised photons. By measuring the scattered photons' energy and reversing the magnetisation of the sample, two different Compton profiles are generated (one for **spin** up momenta and one for spin down momenta). Taking the difference between these two profiles gives the magnetic Compton profile (MCP), given by formula_39 – a one-dimensional projection of the electro...
149. ...rcularly polarised photons. By measuring the scattered photons' energy and reversing the magnetisation of the sample, two different Compton profiles are generated (one for spin up momenta and one for **spin** down momenta). Taking the difference between these two profiles gives the magnetic Compton profile (MCP), given by formula_39 – a one-dimensional projection of the electron spin density. formula_40 w...
150. ...p momenta and one for spin down momenta). Taking the difference between these two profiles gives the magnetic Compton profile (MCP), given by formula_39 – a one-dimensional projection of the electron **spin** density. formula_40 where formula_41 is the number of spin-unpaired electrons in the system, formula_42 and formula_43 are the three-dimensional electron momentum distributions for the majority spin...
151. ...ence between these two profiles gives the magnetic Compton profile (MCP), given by formula_39 – a one-dimensional projection of the electron spin density. formula_40 where formula_41 is the number of **spin**-unpaired electrons in the system, formula_42 and formula_43 are the three-dimensional electron momentum distributions for the majority spin and minority spin electrons respectively. Since this scatte...
152. ...spin density. formula_40 where formula_41 is the number of spin-unpaired electrons in the system, formula_42 and formula_43 are the three-dimensional electron momentum distributions for the majority **spin** and minority spin electrons respectively. Since this scattering process is incoherent (there is no phase relationship between the scattered photons), the MCP is representative of the bulk properties...
153. ...mula_40 where formula_41 is the number of spin-unpaired electrons in the system, formula_42 and formula_43 are the three-dimensional electron momentum distributions for the majority spin and minority **spin** electrons respectively. Since this scattering process is incoherent (there is no phase relationship between the scattered photons), the MCP is representative of the bulk properties of the sample and...
154. ...d is a probe of the ground state. This means that the MCP is ideal for comparison with theoretical techniques such as density functional theory. The area under the MCP is directly proportional to the **spin** moment of the system and so, when combined with total moment measurements methods (such as SQUID magnetometry), can be used to isolate both the spin and orbital contributions to the total moment of a...
155. ...area under the MCP is directly proportional to the spin moment of the system and so, when combined with total moment measurements methods (such as SQUID magnetometry), can be used to isolate both the **spin** and orbital contributions to the total moment of a system. The shape of the MCP also yields insight into the origin of the magnetism in the system. Inverse Compton scattering is important in astrophy...
156. ...of stroking a cat is familiar to many, there are other areas in modern technological civilization where triboelectricity is exploited or is a concern:  Spintronics Spintronics (a portmanteau meaning **spin** transport electronics), also known as spin electronics, is the study of the intrinsic spin of the electron and its associated magnetic moment, in addition to its fundamental electronic charge, in sol...
157. ...re are other areas in modern technological civilization where triboelectricity is exploited or is a concern:  Spintronics Spintronics (a portmanteau meaning spin transport electronics), also known as **spin** electronics, is the study of the intrinsic spin of the electron and its associated magnetic moment, in addition to its fundamental electronic charge, in solid-state devices. The field of spintronics...
158. ...ization where triboelectricity is exploited or is a concern:  Spintronics Spintronics (a portmanteau meaning spin transport electronics), also known as spin electronics, is the study of the intrinsic **spin** of the electron and its associated magnetic moment, in addition to its fundamental electronic charge, in solid-state devices. The field of spintronics concerns spin-charge coupling in metallic system...
159. ...ics, is the study of the intrinsic spin of the electron and its associated magnetic moment, in addition to its fundamental electronic charge, in solid-state devices. The field of spintronics concerns **spin**-charge coupling in metallic systems; the analogous effects in insulators fall into the field of multiferroics. Spintronics fundamentally differs from traditional electronics in that, in addition to c...
160. ...netic semiconductors (DMS) and Heusler alloys and are of particular interest in the field of quantum computing and neuromorphic computing. Spintronics emerged from discoveries in the 1980s concerning **spin**-dependent electron transport phenomena in solid-state devices. This includes the observation of spin-polarized electron injection from a ferromagnetic metal to a normal metal by Johnson and Silsbee (...
161. ...computing and neuromorphic computing. Spintronics emerged from discoveries in the 1980s concerning spin-dependent electron transport phenomena in solid-state devices. This includes the observation of **spin**-polarized electron injection from a ferromagnetic metal to a normal metal by Johnson and Silsbee (1985) and the discovery of giant magnetoresistance independently by Albert Fert et al. and Peter Grün...
162. ...ents pioneered by Meservey and Tedrow and initial experiments on magnetic tunnel junctions by Julliere in the 1970s. The use of semiconductors for spintronics began with the theoretical proposal of a **spin** field-effect-transistor by Datta and Das in 1990 and of the electric dipole spin resonance by Rashba in 1960. The spin of the electron is an intrinsic angular momentum that is separate from the angul...
163. ...junctions by Julliere in the 1970s. The use of semiconductors for spintronics began with the theoretical proposal of a spin field-effect-transistor by Datta and Das in 1990 and of the electric dipole **spin** resonance by Rashba in 1960. The spin of the electron is an intrinsic angular momentum that is separate from the angular momentum due to its orbital motion. The magnitude of the projection of the ele...
164. ...e use of semiconductors for spintronics began with the theoretical proposal of a spin field-effect-transistor by Datta and Das in 1990 and of the electric dipole spin resonance by Rashba in 1960. The **spin** of the electron is an intrinsic angular momentum that is separate from the angular momentum due to its orbital motion. The magnitude of the projection of the electron's spin along an arbitrary axis i...
165. ...ce by Rashba in 1960. The spin of the electron is an intrinsic angular momentum that is separate from the angular momentum due to its orbital motion. The magnitude of the projection of the electron's **spin** along an arbitrary axis is formula_1, implying that the electron acts as a fermion by the spin-statistics theorem. Like orbital angular momentum, the spin has an associated magnetic moment, the magni...
166. ...e from the angular momentum due to its orbital motion. The magnitude of the projection of the electron's spin along an arbitrary axis is formula_1, implying that the electron acts as a fermion by the **spin**-statistics theorem. Like orbital angular momentum, the spin has an associated magnetic moment, the magnitude of which is expressed as In a solid, the spins of many electrons can act together to affec...
167. ...agnitude of the projection of the electron's spin along an arbitrary axis is formula_1, implying that the electron acts as a fermion by the spin-statistics theorem. Like orbital angular momentum, the **spin** has an associated magnetic moment, the magnitude of which is expressed as In a solid, the spins of many electrons can act together to affect the magnetic and electronic properties of a material, for...
168. ...endowing it with a permanent magnetic moment as in a ferromagnet. In many materials, electron spins are equally present in both the up and the down state, and no transport properties are dependent on **spin**. A spintronic device requires generation or manipulation of a spin-polarized population of electrons, resulting in an excess of spin up or spin down electrons. The polarization of any spin dependent...
169. ...n many materials, electron spins are equally present in both the up and the down state, and no transport properties are dependent on spin. A spintronic device requires generation or manipulation of a **spin**-polarized population of electrons, resulting in an excess of spin up or spin down electrons. The polarization of any spin dependent property X can be written as A net spin polarization can be achieve...
170. ...p and the down state, and no transport properties are dependent on spin. A spintronic device requires generation or manipulation of a spin-polarized population of electrons, resulting in an excess of **spin** up or spin down electrons. The polarization of any spin dependent property X can be written as A net spin polarization can be achieved either through creating an equilibrium energy split between spin...
171. ...own state, and no transport properties are dependent on spin. A spintronic device requires generation or manipulation of a spin-polarized population of electrons, resulting in an excess of spin up or **spin** down electrons. The polarization of any spin dependent property X can be written as A net spin polarization can be achieved either through creating an equilibrium energy split between spin up and spi...
172. ...pendent on spin. A spintronic device requires generation or manipulation of a spin-polarized population of electrons, resulting in an excess of spin up or spin down electrons. The polarization of any **spin** dependent property X can be written as A net spin polarization can be achieved either through creating an equilibrium energy split between spin up and spin down. Methods include putting a material in...
173. ...ration or manipulation of a spin-polarized population of electrons, resulting in an excess of spin up or spin down electrons. The polarization of any spin dependent property X can be written as A net **spin** polarization can be achieved either through creating an equilibrium energy split between spin up and spin down. Methods include putting a material in a large magnetic field (Zeeman effect), the excha...
174. ...spin up or spin down electrons. The polarization of any spin dependent property X can be written as A net spin polarization can be achieved either through creating an equilibrium energy split between **spin** up and spin down. Methods include putting a material in a large magnetic field (Zeeman effect), the exchange energy present in a ferromagnet or forcing the system out of equilibrium. The period of ti...
175. ...pin down electrons. The polarization of any spin dependent property X can be written as A net spin polarization can be achieved either through creating an equilibrium energy split between spin up and **spin** down. Methods include putting a material in a large magnetic field (Zeeman effect), the exchange energy present in a ferromagnet or forcing the system out of equilibrium. The period of time that such...
176. ...eld (Zeeman effect), the exchange energy present in a ferromagnet or forcing the system out of equilibrium. The period of time that such a non-equilibrium population can be maintained is known as the **spin** lifetime, formula_4. In a diffusive conductor, a spin diffusion length formula_5 can be defined as the distance over which a non-equilibrium spin population can propagate. Spin lifetimes of conductio...
177. ...ferromagnet or forcing the system out of equilibrium. The period of time that such a non-equilibrium population can be maintained is known as the spin lifetime, formula_4. In a diffusive conductor, a **spin** diffusion length formula_5 can be defined as the distance over which a non-equilibrium spin population can propagate. Spin lifetimes of conduction electrons in metals are relatively short (typically...
178. ...ilibrium population can be maintained is known as the spin lifetime, formula_4. In a diffusive conductor, a spin diffusion length formula_5 can be defined as the distance over which a non-equilibrium **spin** population can propagate. Spin lifetimes of conduction electrons in metals are relatively short (typically less than 1 nanosecond). An important research area is devoted to extending this lifetime to...
179. ...tained is known as the spin lifetime, formula_4. In a diffusive conductor, a spin diffusion length formula_5 can be defined as the distance over which a non-equilibrium spin population can propagate. **Spin** lifetimes of conduction electrons in metals are relatively short (typically less than 1 nanosecond). An important research area is devoted to extending this lifetime to technologically relevant times...
180. ...metals are relatively short (typically less than 1 nanosecond). An important research area is devoted to extending this lifetime to technologically relevant timescales. The mechanisms of decay for a **spin** polarized population can be broadly classified as spin-flip scattering and spin dephasing. Spin-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an in...
181. ...osecond). An important research area is devoted to extending this lifetime to technologically relevant timescales. The mechanisms of decay for a spin polarized population can be broadly classified as **spin**-flip scattering and spin dephasing. Spin-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up state into an outgoing spin down state....
182. ...search area is devoted to extending this lifetime to technologically relevant timescales. The mechanisms of decay for a spin polarized population can be broadly classified as spin-flip scattering and **spin** dephasing. Spin-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up state into an outgoing spin down state. Spin dephasing is the pro...
183. ...evoted to extending this lifetime to technologically relevant timescales. The mechanisms of decay for a spin polarized population can be broadly classified as spin-flip scattering and spin dephasing. **Spin**-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up state into an outgoing spin down state. Spin dephasing is the process wherein a p...
184. .... The mechanisms of decay for a spin polarized population can be broadly classified as spin-flip scattering and spin dephasing. Spin-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve **spin**, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up state into an outgoing spin down state. Spin dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common spin state becomes less polarized o...
185. ...zed population can be broadly classified as spin-flip scattering and spin dephasing. Spin-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming **spin** up state into an outgoing spin down state. Spin dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common spin state becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron...
186. ...lassified as spin-flip scattering and spin dephasing. Spin-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up state into an outgoing **spin** down state. Spin dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common spin state becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron spin precession. In confined s...
187. ...-flip scattering and spin dephasing. Spin-flip scattering is a process inside a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up state into an outgoing spin down state. **Spin** dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common spin state becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron spin precession. In confined structures, spin d...
188. ...a solid that does not conserve spin, and can therefore switch an incoming spin up state into an outgoing spin down state. Spin dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common **spin** state becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron spin precession. In confined structures, spin dephasing can be suppressed, leading to spin lifetimes of milliseconds in semic...
189. ...up state into an outgoing spin down state. Spin dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common spin state becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron **spin** precession. In confined structures, spin dephasing can be suppressed, leading to spin lifetimes of milliseconds in semiconductor quantum dots at low temperatures. Superconductors can enhance central...
190. .... Spin dephasing is the process wherein a population of electrons with a common spin state becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron spin precession. In confined structures, **spin** dephasing can be suppressed, leading to spin lifetimes of milliseconds in semiconductor quantum dots at low temperatures. Superconductors can enhance central effects in spintronics such as magnetores...
191. ...ulation of electrons with a common spin state becomes less polarized over time due to different rates of electron spin precession. In confined structures, spin dephasing can be suppressed, leading to **spin** lifetimes of milliseconds in semiconductor quantum dots at low temperatures. Superconductors can enhance central effects in spintronics such as magnetoresistance effects, spin lifetimes and dissipati...
192. ...suppressed, leading to spin lifetimes of milliseconds in semiconductor quantum dots at low temperatures. Superconductors can enhance central effects in spintronics such as magnetoresistance effects, **spin** lifetimes and dissipationless spin-currents. The simplest method of generating a spin-polarised current in a metal is to pass the current through a ferromagnetic material. The most common application...
193. ...mes of milliseconds in semiconductor quantum dots at low temperatures. Superconductors can enhance central effects in spintronics such as magnetoresistance effects, spin lifetimes and dissipationless **spin**-currents. The simplest method of generating a spin-polarised current in a metal is to pass the current through a ferromagnetic material. The most common applications of this effect involve giant magn...
194. ...t low temperatures. Superconductors can enhance central effects in spintronics such as magnetoresistance effects, spin lifetimes and dissipationless spin-currents. The simplest method of generating a **spin**-polarised current in a metal is to pass the current through a ferromagnetic material. The most common applications of this effect involve giant magnetoresistance (GMR) devices. A typical GMR device c...
195. ...s parallel to the layers and (2) current-perpendicular-to-plane (CPP), where the electric current flows in a direction perpendicular to the layers. Other metal-based spintronics devices: Non-volatile **spin**-logic devices to enable scaling are being extensively studied. Spin-transfer, torque-based logic devices that use spins and magnets for information processing have been proposed. These devices are pa...
196. ...), where the electric current flows in a direction perpendicular to the layers. Other metal-based spintronics devices: Non-volatile spin-logic devices to enable scaling are being extensively studied. **Spin**-transfer, torque-based logic devices that use spins and magnets for information processing have been proposed. These devices are part of the ITRS exploratory road map. Logic-in memory applications ar...
197. ...are already in the development stage. A 2017 review article can be found in "Materials Today". A generalized circuit theory for spintronic integrated circuits has been proposed so that the physics of **spin** transport can be utilized by SPICE developers and subsequently by circuit and system designers for the exploration of spintronics for “beyond CMOS computing.” Read heads of magnetic hard drives are b...
198. ...sistor that has a read/write cycle of under 50 nanoseconds. Everspin has since developed a 4 Mb version. Two second-generation MRAM techniques are in development: thermal-assisted switching (TAS) and **spin**-transfer torque (STT). Another design, racetrack memory, a novel memory architecture proposed by Dr. Stuart S. P. Parkin, encodes information in the direction of magnetization between domain walls of...
199. ...etrack memory, a novel memory architecture proposed by Dr. Stuart S. P. Parkin, encodes information in the direction of magnetization between domain walls of a ferromagnetic wire. In 2012, persistent **spin** helices of synchronized electrons were made to persist for more than a nanosecond, a 30-fold increase over earlier efforts, and longer than the duration of a modern processor clock cycle. Doped semic...
200. ...ional investigations. Non-oxide ferromagnetic semiconductor sources (like manganese-doped gallium arsenide ), increase the interface resistance with a tunnel barrier, or using hot-electron injection. **Spin** detection in semiconductors has been addressed with multiple techniques: The latter technique was used to overcome the lack of spin-orbit interaction and materials issues to achieve spin transport in...
201. ...resistance with a tunnel barrier, or using hot-electron injection. Spin detection in semiconductors has been addressed with multiple techniques: The latter technique was used to overcome the lack of **spin**-orbit interaction and materials issues to achieve spin transport in silicon. Because external magnetic fields (and stray fields from magnetic contacts) can cause large Hall effects and magnetoresista...
202. ...n injection. Spin detection in semiconductors has been addressed with multiple techniques: The latter technique was used to overcome the lack of spin-orbit interaction and materials issues to achieve **spin** transport in silicon. Because external magnetic fields (and stray fields from magnetic contacts) can cause large Hall effects and magnetoresistance in semiconductors (which mimic spin-valve effects),...
203. ...sues to achieve spin transport in silicon. Because external magnetic fields (and stray fields from magnetic contacts) can cause large Hall effects and magnetoresistance in semiconductors (which mimic **spin**-valve effects), the only conclusive evidence of spin transport in semiconductors is demonstration of spin precession and dephasing in a magnetic field non-collinear to the injected spin orientation,...
204. ...ternal magnetic fields (and stray fields from magnetic contacts) can cause large Hall effects and magnetoresistance in semiconductors (which mimic spin-valve effects), the only conclusive evidence of **spin** transport in semiconductors is demonstration of spin precession and dephasing in a magnetic field non-collinear to the injected spin orientation, called the Hanle effect. Applications using spin-pola...
205. ...c contacts) can cause large Hall effects and magnetoresistance in semiconductors (which mimic spin-valve effects), the only conclusive evidence of spin transport in semiconductors is demonstration of **spin** precession and dephasing in a magnetic field non-collinear to the injected spin orientation, called the Hanle effect. Applications using spin-polarized electrical injection have shown threshold curre...
206. ...(which mimic spin-valve effects), the only conclusive evidence of spin transport in semiconductors is demonstration of spin precession and dephasing in a magnetic field non-collinear to the injected **spin** orientation, called the Hanle effect. Applications using spin-polarized electrical injection have shown threshold current reduction and controllable circularly polarized coherent light output. Exampl...
207. ...e of spin transport in semiconductors is demonstration of spin precession and dephasing in a magnetic field non-collinear to the injected spin orientation, called the Hanle effect. Applications using **spin**-polarized electrical injection have shown threshold current reduction and controllable circularly polarized coherent light output. Examples include semiconductor lasers. Future applications may inclu...
208. ...rized electrical injection have shown threshold current reduction and controllable circularly polarized coherent light output. Examples include semiconductor lasers. Future applications may include a **spin**-based transistor having advantages over MOSFET devices such as steeper sub-threshold slope. Magnetic-tunnel transistor: The magnetic-tunnel transistor with a single base layer has the following termi...
209. ...netic-tunnel transistor: The magnetic-tunnel transistor with a single base layer has the following terminals: The magnetocurrent (MC) is given as: And the transfer ratio (TR) is MTT promises a highly **spin**-polarized electron source at room temperature. Antiferromagnetic storage media have been studied as an alternative to ferromagnetism, especially since with antiferromagnetic material the bits can be...
210. ...can be stored as well as with ferromagnetic material. Instead of the usual definition 0 ↔ 'magnetisation upwards', 1 ↔ 'magnetisation downwards', the states can be, e.g., 0 ↔ 'vertically-alternating **spin** configuration' and 1 ↔ 'horizontally-alternating spin configuration'.). The main advantages of antiferromagnetic material are: Research is being done into how to read and write information to antifer...
211. ...Instead of the usual definition 0 ↔ 'magnetisation upwards', 1 ↔ 'magnetisation downwards', the states can be, e.g., 0 ↔ 'vertically-alternating spin configuration' and 1 ↔ 'horizontally-alternating **spin** configuration'.). The main advantages of antiferromagnetic material are: Research is being done into how to read and write information to antiferromagnetic spintronics as their net zero magnetization...
212. ...nformation by current rather than fields are also being investigated in antiferromagnets as fields are ineffective anyway. Writing methods currently being investigated in antiferromagnets are through **spin**-transfer torque and spin-orbit torque from the spin Hall effect and the Rashba effect. Reading information in antiferromagnets via magnetoresistance effects such as tunnel magnetoresistance is also b...
213. ...her than fields are also being investigated in antiferromagnets as fields are ineffective anyway. Writing methods currently being investigated in antiferromagnets are through spin-transfer torque and **spin**-orbit torque from the spin Hall effect and the Rashba effect. Reading information in antiferromagnets via magnetoresistance effects such as tunnel magnetoresistance is also being explored. Lightning...
214. ...ing investigated in antiferromagnets as fields are ineffective anyway. Writing methods currently being investigated in antiferromagnets are through spin-transfer torque and spin-orbit torque from the **spin** Hall effect and the Rashba effect. Reading information in antiferromagnets via magnetoresistance effects such as tunnel magnetoresistance is also being explored. Lightning Lightning is a natural phen...
215. ...n other words, electron saturation current equal to the ion saturation current. When this picture is considered in detail, it is seen that the flux tube must charge up and the surrounding plasma must **spin** around it. The current into or out of the flux tube must be associated with a force that slows down this spinning. Candidate forces are viscosity, friction with neutrals, and inertial forces associat...
216. ...ward from each side of his lower jaw. He can fly by means of "jets" which can be ignited out of his limb holes when he retracts his legs into his shell. The jets allow Gamera to rise into the air and **spin**, propelling him forward. In later films, he is shown to be able to fly with only his rear legs drawn inside his shell, allowing his front limbs more freedom. Gamera's shell is presented as being incr...
217. ...ng a similar fate with the Phoenix where both monsters cannot die for the sake of the planet which was damaged by the humanity. The incarnation of the character, the "Black Tortoise", appeared in the **spin**-off novelization of the 2021 film "" was uniquely portrayed to be an actual goddess, being capable of various supernatural abilities such as materialization, speaking human speeches, and making yokai...
218. ...the trilogy, and another by Takashi Miike in late 2000s along with "Gamera the Brave" while Miike made the Daimajin to appear in the 2018 film "" where Gamera also made a cameo appearance within its **spin**-off novelization. "Daimajin Kanon" was originally intended to be directed by Noriaki Yuasa and Mamoru Sasaki. Prior to the actual development of the trilogy, Niisan Takahashi wrote a script for a scr...
219. ...series "Gamera Rebirth". Takashi Miike's "Daimajin" project was presumably cancelled due to the aftermath of "Gamera the Brave", while Daimajin appeared in Miike's "" (2018), along with Gamera in its **spin**-off novelization. The film series began in 1965 with "Gamera, the Giant Monster", directed by Noriaki Yuasa, which is the first and only entry in the entire series to be shot in black-and-white. To d...
220. ...ameters in microseconds to compensate. The typical part geometry is a complex 3D shape, often with small or odd shaped angles. Vertical, orbital, vectorial, directional, helical, conical, rotational, **spin**, and indexing machining cycles are also used. In "wire electrical discharge machining" (WEDM), also known as "wire-cut EDM" and "wire cutting", a thin single-strand metal wire, usually brass, is fed...
221. ...ent of Heat" to the British Association meeting in Cambridge. In this work, he reported his best-known experiment, involving the use of a falling weight, in which gravity does the mechanical work, to **spin** a paddle wheel in an insulated barrel of water which increased the temperature. He now estimated a mechanical equivalent of . He wrote a letter to the Philosophical Magazine, published in September 1...
222. ...etic moments are primarily classified as diamagnetic, paramagnetic, ferromagnetic, or antiferromagnetic (although the zoology of magnetic ordering also includes ferrimagnetic, helimagnetic, toroidal, **spin** glass, etc.). Measuring the magnetization as a function of temperature and magnetic field can give clues as to the type of magnetic ordering, as well as any phase transitions between different types...
223. ...seizures more precisely and generate less heat than currently available superconducting quantum interference devices, better known as SQUIDs. The device works by using polarized light to control the **spin** of rubidium atoms which can be used to measure and monitor the magnetic field. Survey magnetometers can be divided into two basic types: A vector is a mathematical entity with both magnitude and dire...
224. ...ploited to significantly improve upon the proton precession magnetometer. Rather than aligning the protons using a solenoid, a low power radio-frequency field is used to align (polarise) the electron **spin** of the free radicals, which then couples to the protons via the Overhauser effect. This has two main advantages: driving the RF field takes a fraction of the energy (allowing lighter-weight batteries...
225. ...e frequency that corresponds to the external field. Both methods lead to high performance magnetometers. Potassium is the only optically pumped magnetometer that operates on a single, narrow electron **spin** resonance (ESR) line in contrast to other alkali vapour magnetometers that use irregular, composite and wide spectral lines and helium with the inherently wide spectral line. Magnetometers based on h...
226. ...various configurations and with different atomic species, notably alkali (potassium, rubidium and cesium), helium and mercury. For the case of alkali, the coherence times were greatly limited due to **spin**-exchange relaxation. A major breakthrough happened at the beginning of the 2000 decade, Romalis group in Princeton demonstrated that in such a low field regime, alkali coherence times can be greatly...
227. ...those of TwinLeaf, quSpin and FieldLine being based on alkali vapors, and those of Mag4Health on metastable helium-4. At sufficiently high atomic density, extremely high sensitivity can be achieved. **Spin**-exchange-relaxation-free (SERF) atomic magnetometers containing potassium, caesium, or rubidium vapor operate similarly to the caesium magnetometers described above, yet can reach sensitivities lower...
228. ...understood. According to the general theory of relativity, rotating matter can generate a new force of nature, known as the gravitomagnetic interaction, whose intensity is proportional to the rate of **spin**. In certain conditions the gravitomagnetic field can be repulsive. In neutron stars for example, it can produce a gravitational analogue of the Meissner effect, but the force produced in such an exam...
229. ...t and aerospace engineer at Hughes Research Laboratories, published a paper showing how within the framework of general relativity "anti-gravitational" effects might be achieved. Since all atoms have **spin**, gravitational permeability may be able to differ from material to material. A strong toroidal gravitational field that acts against the force of gravity could be generated by materials that have non...
230. ...of the gravitomagnetic field – change in the motion of a body on a pivot, detection of a transverse voltage in a semiconductor crystal, and a change in the specific heat of a crystal material having **spin**-aligned nuclei. There are no publicly available independent tests verifying Wallace's devices. Such an effect if any would be small. Referring to Wallace's patents, a New Scientist article in 1980 st...
231. ...uglas Torr published a number of articles about gravitational effects in superconductors. One finding they derived is the source of gravitomagnetic flux in a type II superconductor material is due to **spin** alignment of the lattice ions. Quoting from their third paper: "It is shown that the coherent alignment of lattice ion spins will generate a detectable gravitomagnetic field, and in the presence of a...
232. ...idates for MCD measurements, as the presence of metals with degenerate energy levels leads to strong MCD signals. In the case of ferric heme proteins, MCD is capable of determining both oxidation and **spin** state to a remarkably exquisite degree. In regular proteins, MCD is capable of stoichiometrically measuring the tryptophan content of proteins, assuming there are no other competing absorbers in the...
233. ...formula_71 and formula_74 and formula_72 (respectively), formula_81 is the energy of unperturbed state formula_82, formula_83 is the formula_10 angular momentum operator, formula_85 is the formula_10 **spin** operator, and formula_87 indicates the real part of the expression.  The equations in the previous subsection reveal that the formula_46, formula_47, and formula_48 terms originate through three dist...
234. ...allow mixing (B-term). One case exemplifying these conditions is a square planar, d complex such as [(n-CH)N]Pt(CN). In addition to containing A- and B-terms, this example demonstrates the effects of **spin**-orbit coupling in metal to ligand charge transfer (MLCT) transitions. As shown in figure 1, the molecular orbital diagram of [(n-CH)N]Pt(CN) reveals MLCT into the antibonding π* orbitals of cyanide....
235. ...se A- and B-terms arise from the properties of states, all singlet and triplet excited states are given in figure 2. Mixing of all these singlet and triplet states will occur and is attributed to the **spin** orbit coupling of platinum 5d orbitals (ζ ~ 3500 cm), as shown in figure 3. The black lines on the figure indicate the mixing of A with E to give two A states. The red lines show the E, E, A, and B s...
236. ...ack lines on the figure indicate the mixing of A with E to give two A states. The red lines show the E, E, A, and B states mixing to give four E states. The blue lines indicate remnant orbitals after **spin**-orbit coupling that are not a result of mixing. Electromagnet An electromagnet is a type of magnet in which the magnetic field is produced by an electric current. Electromagnets usually consist of wi...
237. ...e sulfur compounds, with which it reacts to form various copper sulfides. There are 29 isotopes of copper. and are stable, with comprising approximately 69% of naturally occurring copper; both have a **spin** of . The other isotopes are radioactive, with the most stable being with a half-life of 61.83 hours. Seven metastable isomers have been characterized; is the longest-lived with a half-life of 3.8 min...
238. ...sen jumps. This effect is due to crystallographic defects such as dislocations. Magnetic hysteresis loops are not exclusive to materials with ferromagnetic ordering. Other magnetic orderings, such as **spin** glass ordering, also exhibit this phenomenon. The phenomenon of hysteresis in ferromagnetic materials is the result of two effects: rotation of magnetization and changes in size or number of magnetic...
239. ...ce magnetizations differing from that of the other sublattice, resulting in a nonzero net magnetization. Although the net magnetization should be zero at a temperature of absolute zero, the effect of **spin** canting often causes a small net magnetization to develop, as seen for example in hematite. The magnetic susceptibility of an antiferromagnetic material typically shows a maximum at the Néel temperat...
240. ...of the ferromagnet to align with the surface atoms of the antiferromagnet. This provides the ability to "pin" the orientation of a ferromagnetic film, which provides one of the main uses in so-called **spin** valves, which are the basis of magnetic sensors including modern hard disk drive read heads. The temperature at or above which an antiferromagnetic layer loses its ability to "pin" the magnetization...
241. ...ate is an alternating series of spins: up, down, up, down, etc. Yet in two dimensions, multiple ground states can occur. Consider an equilateral triangle with three spins, one on each vertex. If each **spin** can take on only two values (up or down), there are 2 = 8 possible states of the system, six of which are ground states. The two situations which are not ground states are when all three spins are up...
242. ...ses) that become antiferromagnetic below their Néel temperature. These disordered networks 'frustrate' the antiparallelism of adjacent spins; i.e. it is not possible to construct a network where each **spin** is surrounded by opposite neighbour spins. It can only be determined that the average correlation of neighbour spins is antiferromagnetic. This type of magnetism is sometimes called speromagnetism. S...
243. ...n is surrounded by opposite neighbour spins. It can only be determined that the average correlation of neighbour spins is antiferromagnetic. This type of magnetism is sometimes called speromagnetism. **Spin** glass In condensed matter physics, a spin glass is a magnetic state characterized by randomness, besides cooperative behavior in freezing of spins at a temperature called "freezing temperature" "T"....
244. ...s. It can only be determined that the average correlation of neighbour spins is antiferromagnetic. This type of magnetism is sometimes called speromagnetism. Spin glass In condensed matter physics, a **spin** glass is a magnetic state characterized by randomness, besides cooperative behavior in freezing of spins at a temperature called "freezing temperature" "T". In ferromagnetic solids, component atoms'...
245. ...omness, besides cooperative behavior in freezing of spins at a temperature called "freezing temperature" "T". In ferromagnetic solids, component atoms' magnetic spins all align in the same direction. **Spin** glass when contrasted with a ferromagnet is defined as "disordered" magnetic state in which spins are aligned randomly or without a regular pattern and the couplings too are random. A spin glass shou...
246. ...direction. Spin glass when contrasted with a ferromagnet is defined as "disordered" magnetic state in which spins are aligned randomly or without a regular pattern and the couplings too are random. A **spin** glass should not be confused with a "spin-on glass". The latter is a thin film, usually based on SiO, which is applied via spin coating. The term "glass" comes from an analogy between the "magnetic"...
247. ...a ferromagnet is defined as "disordered" magnetic state in which spins are aligned randomly or without a regular pattern and the couplings too are random. A spin glass should not be confused with a "**spin**-on glass". The latter is a thin film, usually based on SiO, which is applied via spin coating. The term "glass" comes from an analogy between the "magnetic" disorder in a spin glass and the "position...
248. ...ndomly or without a regular pattern and the couplings too are random. A spin glass should not be confused with a "spin-on glass". The latter is a thin film, usually based on SiO, which is applied via **spin** coating. The term "glass" comes from an analogy between the "magnetic" disorder in a spin glass and the "positional" disorder of a conventional, chemical glass, e.g., a window glass. In window glass...
249. ...not be confused with a "spin-on glass". The latter is a thin film, usually based on SiO, which is applied via spin coating. The term "glass" comes from an analogy between the "magnetic" disorder in a **spin** glass and the "positional" disorder of a conventional, chemical glass, e.g., a window glass. In window glass or any amorphous solid the atomic bond structure is highly irregular; in contrast, a cryst...
250. ...a uniform pattern of atomic bonds. In ferromagnetic solids, magnetic spins all align in the same direction; this is analogous to a crystal's lattice-based structure. The individual atomic bonds in a **spin** glass are a mixture of roughly equal numbers of ferromagnetic bonds (where neighbors have the same orientation) and antiferromagnetic bonds (where neighbors have exactly the opposite orientation: nor...
251. ...mic bonds compared to what would be seen in a regular, fully aligned solid. They may also create situations where more than one geometric arrangement of atoms is stable. There are two main aspects of **spin** glass. On the physical side, spin glasses are real materials with distinctive properties, a review of which is. On the mathematical side, simple statistical mechanics models, inspired by real spin gl...
252. ...e seen in a regular, fully aligned solid. They may also create situations where more than one geometric arrangement of atoms is stable. There are two main aspects of spin glass. On the physical side, **spin** glasses are real materials with distinctive properties, a review of which is. On the mathematical side, simple statistical mechanics models, inspired by real spin glasses, are widely studied and appl...
253. ...of spin glass. On the physical side, spin glasses are real materials with distinctive properties, a review of which is. On the mathematical side, simple statistical mechanics models, inspired by real **spin** glasses, are widely studied and applied. Spin glasses and the complex internal structures that arise within them are termed "metastable" because they are "stuck" in stable configurations other than t...
254. ...ses are real materials with distinctive properties, a review of which is. On the mathematical side, simple statistical mechanics models, inspired by real spin glasses, are widely studied and applied. **Spin** glasses and the complex internal structures that arise within them are termed "metastable" because they are "stuck" in stable configurations other than the lowest-energy configuration (which would be...
255. ...to study experimentally or in simulations; with applications to physics, chemistry, materials science and artificial neural networks in computer science. It is the time dependence which distinguishes **spin** glasses from other magnetic systems. Above the spin glass transition temperature, "T", the spin glass exhibits typical magnetic behaviour (such as paramagnetism). If a magnetic field is applied as th...
256. ...ications to physics, chemistry, materials science and artificial neural networks in computer science. It is the time dependence which distinguishes spin glasses from other magnetic systems. Above the **spin** glass transition temperature, "T", the spin glass exhibits typical magnetic behaviour (such as paramagnetism). If a magnetic field is applied as the sample is cooled to the transition temperature, ma...
257. ...ience and artificial neural networks in computer science. It is the time dependence which distinguishes spin glasses from other magnetic systems. Above the spin glass transition temperature, "T", the **spin** glass exhibits typical magnetic behaviour (such as paramagnetism). If a magnetic field is applied as the sample is cooled to the transition temperature, magnetization of the sample increases as descr...
258. ...sm). If a magnetic field is applied as the sample is cooled to the transition temperature, magnetization of the sample increases as described by the Curie law. Upon reaching "T", the sample becomes a **spin** glass, and further cooling results in little change in magnetization. This is referred to as the "field-cooled" magnetization. When the external magnetic field is removed, the magnetization of the sp...
259. ...in glass, and further cooling results in little change in magnetization. This is referred to as the "field-cooled" magnetization. When the external magnetic field is removed, the magnetization of the **spin** glass falls rapidly to a lower value known as the "remanent" magnetization. Magnetization then decays slowly as it approaches zero (or some small fraction of the original value this remains unknown)....
260. ...fraction of the original value this remains unknown). This decay is non-exponential, and no simple function can fit the curve of magnetization versus time adequately. This slow decay is particular to **spin** glasses. Experimental measurements on the order of days have shown continual changes above the noise level of instrumentation. Spin glasses differ from ferromagnetic materials by the fact that after...
261. ...netization versus time adequately. This slow decay is particular to spin glasses. Experimental measurements on the order of days have shown continual changes above the noise level of instrumentation. **Spin** glasses differ from ferromagnetic materials by the fact that after the external magnetic field is removed from a ferromagnetic substance, the magnetization remains indefinitely at the remanent value....
262. ...aterials by the fact that after the external magnetic field is removed from a ferromagnetic substance, the magnetization remains indefinitely at the remanent value. Paramagnetic materials differ from **spin** glasses by the fact that, after the external magnetic field is removed, the magnetization rapidly falls to zero, with no remanent magnetization. The decay is rapid and exponential. If the sample is c...
263. ...remanent magnetization. The decay is rapid and exponential. If the sample is cooled below "T" in the absence of an external magnetic field, and a magnetic field is applied after the transition to the **spin** glass phase, there is a rapid initial increase to a value called the "zero-field-cooled" magnetization. A slow upward drift then occurs toward the field-cooled magnetization. Surprisingly, the sum of...
264. ...l lattice with only nearest neighbor interactions. This model can be solved exactly for the critical temperatures and a glassy phase is observed to exist at low temperatures. The Hamiltonian for this **spin** system is given by: where formula_3 refers to the Pauli spin matrix for the spin-half particle at lattice point formula_4, and the sum over formula_5 refers to summing over neighboring lattice points...
265. ...can be solved exactly for the critical temperatures and a glassy phase is observed to exist at low temperatures. The Hamiltonian for this spin system is given by: where formula_3 refers to the Pauli **spin** matrix for the spin-half particle at lattice point formula_4, and the sum over formula_5 refers to summing over neighboring lattice points formula_4 and formula_7. A negative value of formula_8 denot...
266. ...ly for the critical temperatures and a glassy phase is observed to exist at low temperatures. The Hamiltonian for this spin system is given by: where formula_3 refers to the Pauli spin matrix for the **spin**-half particle at lattice point formula_4, and the sum over formula_5 refers to summing over neighboring lattice points formula_4 and formula_7. A negative value of formula_8 denotes an antiferromagne...
267. ...ction between spins at points formula_4 and formula_7. The sum runs over all nearest neighbor positions on a lattice, of any dimension. The variables formula_8 representing the magnetic nature of the **spin**-spin interactions are called bond or link variables. In order to determine the partition function for this system, one needs to average the free energy formula_12 where formula_13, over all possible...
268. ...between spins at points formula_4 and formula_7. The sum runs over all nearest neighbor positions on a lattice, of any dimension. The variables formula_8 representing the magnetic nature of the spin-**spin** interactions are called bond or link variables. In order to determine the partition function for this system, one needs to average the free energy formula_12 where formula_13, over all possible value...
269. ...ormula_8 is taken to be a Gaussian with a mean formula_16 and a variance formula_17: Solving for the free energy using the replica method, below a certain temperature, a new magnetic phase called the **spin** glass phase (or glassy phase) of the system is found to exist which is characterized by a vanishing magnetization formula_19 along with a non-vanishing value of the two point correlation function bet...
270. ...g value of the two point correlation function between spins at the same lattice point but at two different replicas: where formula_21 are replica indices. The order parameter for the ferromagnetic to **spin** glass phase transition is therefore formula_22, and that for paramagnetic to spin glass is again formula_22. Hence the new set of order parameters describing the three magnetic phases consists of bot...
271. ...int but at two different replicas: where formula_21 are replica indices. The order parameter for the ferromagnetic to spin glass phase transition is therefore formula_22, and that for paramagnetic to **spin** glass is again formula_22. Hence the new set of order parameters describing the three magnetic phases consists of both formula_24 and formula_22. Under the assumption of replica symmetry, the mean-fi...
272. ...tic phases consists of both formula_24 and formula_22. Under the assumption of replica symmetry, the mean-field free energy is given by the expression: In addition to unusual experimental properties, **spin** glasses are the subject of extensive theoretical and computational investigations. A substantial part of early theoretical work on spin glasses dealt with a form of mean-field theory based on a set o...
273. ...the expression: In addition to unusual experimental properties, spin glasses are the subject of extensive theoretical and computational investigations. A substantial part of early theoretical work on **spin** glasses dealt with a form of mean-field theory based on a set of replicas of the partition function of the system. An important, exactly solvable model of a spin glass was introduced by David Sherrin...
274. ...ial part of early theoretical work on spin glasses dealt with a form of mean-field theory based on a set of replicas of the partition function of the system. An important, exactly solvable model of a **spin** glass was introduced by David Sherrington and Scott Kirkpatrick in 1975. It is an Ising model with long range frustrated ferro- as well as antiferromagnetic couplings. It corresponds to a mean-field...
275. ...uced by David Sherrington and Scott Kirkpatrick in 1975. It is an Ising model with long range frustrated ferro- as well as antiferromagnetic couplings. It corresponds to a mean-field approximation of **spin** glasses describing the slow dynamics of the magnetization and the complex non-ergodic equilibrium state. Unlike the Edwards–Anderson (EA) model, in the system though only two-spin interactions are co...
276. ...ld approximation of spin glasses describing the slow dynamics of the magnetization and the complex non-ergodic equilibrium state. Unlike the Edwards–Anderson (EA) model, in the system though only two-**spin** interactions are considered, the range of each interaction can be potentially infinite (of the order of the size of the lattice). Therefore, we see that any two spins can be linked with a ferromagnet...
277. ...et to the equationsformula_34The phase transition occurs at formula_35. Just below it, we haveformula_36At low temperature, high magnetic field limit, the line isformula_37 This is also called the "p-**spin** model". The infinite-range model is a generalization of the Sherrington–Kirkpatrick model where we not only consider two-spin interactions but formula_38-spin interactions, where formula_39 and formu...
278. ...gh magnetic field limit, the line isformula_37 This is also called the "p-spin model". The infinite-range model is a generalization of the Sherrington–Kirkpatrick model where we not only consider two-**spin** interactions but formula_38-spin interactions, where formula_39 and formula_40 is the total number of spins. Unlike the Edwards–Anderson model, but similar to the SK model, the interaction range is i...
279. ...isformula_37 This is also called the "p-spin model". The infinite-range model is a generalization of the Sherrington–Kirkpatrick model where we not only consider two-spin interactions but formula_38-**spin** interactions, where formula_39 and formula_40 is the total number of spins. Unlike the Edwards–Anderson model, but similar to the SK model, the interaction range is infinite. The Hamiltonian for this...
280. ...or this model is described by: where formula_42 have similar meanings as in the EA model. The formula_43 limit of this model is known as the random energy model. In this limit, the probability of the **spin** glass existing in a particular state depends only on the energy of that state and not on the individual spin configurations in it. A Gaussian distribution of magnetic bonds across the lattice is assu...
281. ...t of this model is known as the random energy model. In this limit, the probability of the spin glass existing in a particular state depends only on the energy of that state and not on the individual **spin** configurations in it. A Gaussian distribution of magnetic bonds across the lattice is assumed usually to solve this model. Any other distribution is expected to give the same result, as a consequence...
282. ...heorem. The Gaussian distribution function, with mean formula_44 and variance formula_45, is given as: The order parameters for this system are given by the magnetization formula_24 and the two point **spin** correlation between spins at the same site formula_22, in two different replicas, which are the same as for the SK model. This infinite range model can be solved explicitly for the free energy in ter...
283. ...king. A thermodynamic system is ergodic when, given any (equilibrium) instance of the system, it eventually visits every other possible (equilibrium) state (of the same energy). One characteristic of **spin** glass systems is that, below the freezing temperature formula_52, instances are trapped in a "non-ergodic" set of states: the system may fluctuate between several states, but cannot transition to oth...
284. ...etween minima. The participation ratio counts the number of states that are accessible from a given instance, that is, the number of states that participate in the ground state. The ergodic aspect of **spin** glass was instrumental in the awarding of half the 2021 Nobel Prize in Physics to Giorgio Parisi. For physical systems, such as dilute manganese in copper, the freezing temperature is typically as lo...
285. ...g of half the 2021 Nobel Prize in Physics to Giorgio Parisi. For physical systems, such as dilute manganese in copper, the freezing temperature is typically as low as 30 kelvins (−240 °C), and so the **spin**-glass magnetism appears to be practically without applications in daily life. The non-ergodic states and rugged energy landscapes are, however, quite useful in understanding the behavior of certain n...
286. ...c at room temperature and becomes an antiferromagnet with incommensurate order upon cooling below 19.9 K. Below this transition temperature it exhibits a complex set of magnetic phases that have long **spin** relaxation times and spin-glass behavior that does not rely on structural disorder. A detailed account of the history of spin glasses from the early 1960s to the late 1980s can be found in a series o...
287. ...becomes an antiferromagnet with incommensurate order upon cooling below 19.9 K. Below this transition temperature it exhibits a complex set of magnetic phases that have long spin relaxation times and **spin**-glass behavior that does not rely on structural disorder. A detailed account of the history of spin glasses from the early 1960s to the late 1980s can be found in a series of popular articles by Phil...
288. ...n temperature it exhibits a complex set of magnetic phases that have long spin relaxation times and spin-glass behavior that does not rely on structural disorder. A detailed account of the history of **spin** glasses from the early 1960s to the late 1980s can be found in a series of popular articles by Philip W. Anderson in "Physics Today". In 1930s, material scientists discovered the Kondo effect, where...
289. ...around 1 to 10 atomic percent. Cannella and Mydosh observed in 1972 that Au"Fe" had an unexpected cusplike peak in the a.c. susceptibility at a well defined temperature, which would later be termed "**spin** glass freezing temperature". It was also called "mictomagnet" (micto- is Greek for "mixed"). The term arose from the observation that these materials often contain a mix of ferromagnetic (formula_53)...
290. ...in a mix of ferromagnetic (formula_53) and antiferromagnetic (formula_54) interactions, leading to their disordered magnetic structure. This term fell out of favor as the theoretical understanding of **spin** glasses evolved, recognizing that the magnetic frustration arises not just from a simple mixture of ferro- and antiferromagnetic interactions, but from their randomness and frustration in the system....
291. ...ations of properties such as the storage capacity of simple neural network architectures without requiring a training algorithm (such as backpropagation) to be designed or implemented. More realistic **spin** glass models with short range frustrated interactions and disorder, like the Gaussian model where the couplings between neighboring spins follow a Gaussian distribution, have been studied extensively...
292. ...the Gaussian model where the couplings between neighboring spins follow a Gaussian distribution, have been studied extensively as well, especially using Monte Carlo simulations. These models display **spin** glass phases bordered by sharp phase transitions. Besides its relevance in condensed matter physics, spin glass theory has acquired a strongly interdisciplinary character, with applications to neural...
293. ...n studied extensively as well, especially using Monte Carlo simulations. These models display spin glass phases bordered by sharp phase transitions. Besides its relevance in condensed matter physics, **spin** glass theory has acquired a strongly interdisciplinary character, with applications to neural network theory, computer science, theoretical biology, econophysics etc. Spin glass models were adapted t...
294. ...n condensed matter physics, spin glass theory has acquired a strongly interdisciplinary character, with applications to neural network theory, computer science, theoretical biology, econophysics etc. **Spin** glass models were adapted to the folding funnel model of protein folding. Edward Sabine Sir Edward Sabine (; 14 October 1788 – 26 June 1883) was an Irish Physicist, Geodesist astronomer, geophysicist...
295. ...nopole quasiparticles have been observed as emergent properties of certain condensed matter systems. Moreover, one form of magnetic dipole moment is associated with a fundamental quantum property—the **spin** of elementary particles. Because magnetic monopoles do not exist, the magnetic field at a large distance from any static magnetic source looks like the field of a dipole with the same dipole moment....
296. ...both will be same. Bohr magneton In atomic physics, the Bohr magneton (symbol ) is a physical constant and the natural unit for expressing the magnetic moment of an electron caused by its orbital or **spin** angular momentum. In SI units, the Bohr magneton is defined as formula_1 and in the Gaussian CGS units as formula_2 where The idea of elementary magnets is due to Walther Ritz (1907) and Pierre Weiss...
297. ...n electron in an atom is composed of two components. First, the orbital motion of an electron around a nucleus generates a magnetic moment by Ampère's circuital law. Second, the inherent rotation, or **spin**, of the electron has a spin magnetic moment. In the Bohr model of the atom, for an electron that is in the orbit of lowest energy, its orbital angular momentum has magnitude equal to the reduced Plan...
298. ...posed of two components. First, the orbital motion of an electron around a nucleus generates a magnetic moment by Ampère's circuital law. Second, the inherent rotation, or spin, of the electron has a **spin** magnetic moment. In the Bohr model of the atom, for an electron that is in the orbit of lowest energy, its orbital angular momentum has magnitude equal to the reduced Planck constant, denoted "ħ". Th...
299. ...entum has magnitude equal to the reduced Planck constant, denoted "ħ". The Bohr magneton is the magnitude of the magnetic dipole moment of an electron orbiting an atom with this angular momentum. The **spin** angular momentum of an electron is "ħ", but the intrinsic electron magnetic moment caused by its spin is also approximately one Bohr magneton, which results in the electron spin "g"-factor, a factor...
300. ...ude of the magnetic dipole moment of an electron orbiting an atom with this angular momentum. The spin angular momentum of an electron is "ħ", but the intrinsic electron magnetic moment caused by its **spin** is also approximately one Bohr magneton, which results in the electron spin "g"-factor, a factor relating spin angular momentum to corresponding magnetic moment of a particle, having a value of appro...
301. ...angular momentum. The spin angular momentum of an electron is "ħ", but the intrinsic electron magnetic moment caused by its spin is also approximately one Bohr magneton, which results in the electron **spin** "g"-factor, a factor relating spin angular momentum to corresponding magnetic moment of a particle, having a value of approximately 2. Nuclear magneton The nuclear magneton (symbol ) is a physical co...
302. ...momentum of an electron is "ħ", but the intrinsic electron magnetic moment caused by its spin is also approximately one Bohr magneton, which results in the electron spin "g"-factor, a factor relating **spin** angular momentum to corresponding magnetic moment of a particle, having a value of approximately 2. Nuclear magneton The nuclear magneton (symbol ) is a physical constant of magnetic moment, defined...
303. ...to Ampère's law. Second, many elementary particles have an "intrinsic" magnetic moment, the most important of which is the electron magnetic dipole moment, which is related to its quantum-mechanical **spin**. Mathematically, the magnetic field of an object is often described in terms of a multipole expansion. This is an expression of the field as the sum of component fields with specific mathematical for...
304. ...o several components in the presence of a static magnetic field. It is caused by interaction of the magnetic field with the magnetic moment of the atomic electron associated to its orbital motion and **spin**; this interaction shifts some orbital energies more than others, resulting in the split spectrum. The effect is named after the Dutch physicist Pieter Zeeman, who discovered it in 1896 and received a...
305. ...images. Historically, one distinguishes between the normal and an anomalous Zeeman effect (discovered by Thomas Preston in Dublin, Ireland). The anomalous effect appears on transitions where the net **spin** of the electrons is non-zero. It was called "anomalous" because the electron spin had not yet been discovered, and so there was no good explanation for it at the time that Zeeman observed the effect....
306. ...n effect (discovered by Thomas Preston in Dublin, Ireland). The anomalous effect appears on transitions where the net spin of the electrons is non-zero. It was called "anomalous" because the electron **spin** had not yet been discovered, and so there was no good explanation for it at the time that Zeeman observed the effect. Wolfgang Pauli recalled that when asked by a colleague as to why he looked unhapp...
307. ...ndé g-factor. A more accurate approach is to take into account that the operator of the magnetic moment of an electron is a sum of the contributions of the orbital angular momentum formula_10 and the **spin** angular momentum formula_11, with each multiplied by the appropriate gyromagnetic ratio: where formula_13 and formula_14 (the latter is called the anomalous gyromagnetic ratio; the deviation of the v...
308. ...iation of the value from 2 is due to the effects of quantum electrodynamics). In the case of the LS coupling, one can sum over all electrons in the atom: where formula_16 and formula_17 are the total **spin** momentum and spin of the atom, and averaging is done over a state with a given value of the total angular momentum. If the interaction term formula_18 is small (less than the fine structure), it can...
309. ...e from 2 is due to the effects of quantum electrodynamics). In the case of the LS coupling, one can sum over all electrons in the atom: where formula_16 and formula_17 are the total spin momentum and **spin** of the atom, and averaging is done over a state with a given value of the total angular momentum. If the interaction term formula_18 is small (less than the fine structure), it can be treated as a pe...
310. ...mula_2, in which case the atom can no longer exist in its normal meaning, and one talks about Landau levels instead. There are intermediate cases which are more complex than these limit cases. If the **spin**–orbit interaction dominates over the effect of the external magnetic field, formula_22 and formula_23 are not separately conserved, only the total angular momentum formula_24 is. The spin and orbital...
311. ...ses. If the spin–orbit interaction dominates over the effect of the external magnetic field, formula_22 and formula_23 are not separately conserved, only the total angular momentum formula_24 is. The **spin** and orbital angular momentum vectors can be thought of as precessing about the (fixed) total angular momentum vector formula_25. The (time-)"averaged" spin vector is then the projection of the spin o...
312. ...e total angular momentum formula_24 is. The spin and orbital angular momentum vectors can be thought of as precessing about the (fixed) total angular momentum vector formula_25. The (time-)"averaged" **spin** vector is then the projection of the spin onto the direction of formula_25: and for the (time-)"averaged" orbital vector: Thus, Using formula_30 and squaring both sides, we get and: using formula_32...
313. ...e spin and orbital angular momentum vectors can be thought of as precessing about the (fixed) total angular momentum vector formula_25. The (time-)"averaged" spin vector is then the projection of the **spin** onto the direction of formula_25: and for the (time-)"averaged" orbital vector: Thus, Using formula_30 and squaring both sides, we get and: using formula_32 and squaring both sides, we get Combining...
314. ...d formula_40, the Landé g-factor can be simplified into: Taking formula_42 to be the perturbation, the Zeeman correction to the energy is The Lyman-alpha transition in hydrogen in the presence of the **spin**–orbit interaction involves the transitions In the presence of an external magnetic field, the weak-field Zeeman effect splits the 1S and 2P levels into 2 states each (formula_46) and the 2P level int...
315. ...erent for the different orbitals, because the g values are different. On the left, fine structure splitting is depicted. This splitting occurs even in the absence of a magnetic field, as it is due to **spin**–orbit coupling. Depicted on the right is the additional Zeeman splitting, which occurs in the presence of magnetic fields. The Paschen–Back effect is the splitting of atomic energy levels in the pres...
316. ...litting of atomic energy levels in the presence of a strong magnetic field. This occurs when an external magnetic field is sufficiently strong to disrupt the coupling between orbital (formula_16) and **spin** (formula_17) angular momenta. This effect is the strong-field limit of the Zeeman effect. When formula_56, the two effects are equivalent. The effect was named after the German physicists Friedrich P...
317. ...hen formula_56, the two effects are equivalent. The effect was named after the German physicists Friedrich Paschen and Ernst E. A. Back. When the magnetic-field perturbation significantly exceeds the **spin**–orbit interaction, one can safely assume formula_57. This allows the expectation values of formula_58 and formula_59 to be easily evaluated for a state formula_60. The energies are simply The above m...
318. ...the external field. However formula_62 and formula_63 are still "good" quantum numbers. Together with the selection rules for an electric dipole transition, i.e., formula_64 this allows to ignore the **spin** degree of freedom altogether. As a result, only three spectral lines will be visible, corresponding to the formula_65 selection rule. The splitting formula_66 is "independent" of the unperturbed ener...
319. ...bed energies and electronic configurations of the levels being considered. More precisely, if formula_67, each of these three components is actually a group of several transitions due to the residual **spin**–orbit coupling and relativistic corrections (which are of the same order, known as 'fine structure'). The first-order perturbation theory with these corrections yields the following formula for the h...
320. ...the magnetic field geometries in other stars. The Zeeman effect is utilized in many laser cooling applications such as a magneto-optical trap and the Zeeman slower. Zeeman-energy mediated coupling of **spin** and orbital motions is used in spintronics for controlling electron spins in quantum dots through electric dipole spin resonance. Old high-precision frequency standards, i.e. hyperfine structure tran...
321. ...a magneto-optical trap and the Zeeman slower. Zeeman-energy mediated coupling of spin and orbital motions is used in spintronics for controlling electron spins in quantum dots through electric dipole **spin** resonance. Old high-precision frequency standards, i.e. hyperfine structure transition-based atomic clocks, may require periodic fine-tuning due to exposure to magnetic fields. This is carried out by...
322. ...o the Zeeman effect. The nuclear Zeeman effect is important in such applications as nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and Mössbauer spectroscopy. The electron **spin** resonance spectroscopy is based on the Zeeman effect. The Zeeman effect can be demonstrated by placing a sodium vapor source in a powerful electromagnet and viewing a sodium vapor lamp through the ma...
323. ...te "T" by the kinetic energy of an additional electron in the Fermi gas model, which is simply the Fermi energy "E". The Fermi energy for a 3D system is related to the density of electrons (including **spin** degeneracy) by formula_8 where "k" is the Fermi wavevector. Perturbing to first order, we find that formula_9 Inserting this into the above equation for Δ"μ" yields formula_10 where formula_11 is cal...
324. ...resonance imaging (MRI) and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMRS) technology. It is also being used to develop nuclear magnetic resonance quantum computers. The first observation of electron-**spin** resonance was in 1944 by Y. K. Zavosky, a Soviet physicist then teaching at Kazan State University (now Kazan Federal University). Nuclear magnetic resonance was first observed in 1946 in the US by a...
325. ...has a high probability. An example of such an experiment is a variation of Stern–Gerlach experiment, in which magnetic moment is measured by finding resonance frequency for the transition between two **spin** states. Bioluminescence Bioluminescence is the production and emission of light by living organisms. It is a form of chemiluminescence. Bioluminescence occurs widely in marine vertebrates and inverte...
326. ...nitudes of the magnetic entropy and the adiabatic temperature changes are strongly dependent upon the magnetic ordering process. The magnitude is generally small in antiferromagnets, ferrimagnets and **spin** glass systems but can be much larger for ferromagnets that undergo a magnetic phase transition. First order phase transitions are characterized by a discontinuity in the magnetization changes with te...
327. ...an their electron configurations. Since these dipoles are of much smaller magnitude, they are less prone to self-alignment and have lower intrinsic minimum fields. This allows NDR to cool the nuclear **spin** system to very low temperatures, often 1 μK or below. Unfortunately, the small magnitudes of nuclear magnetic dipoles also makes them less inclined to align to external fields. Magnetic fields of 3 t...
328. ...re, we will introduce the parameters formula_26 and formula_27 which give the ratio between the strengths of the interactions. At last we will introduce the reduced magnetizations with formula_30 the **spin** of the "i"-th element. This then gives for the fields: The solutions to these equations (omitted here) are then given by where formula_35 is the Brillouin function. The simplest case to solve now is...
329. ...ite can be used for thermal energy storage. The oldest known magnetic material, magnetite, is a ferrimagnetic substance. The tetrahedral and octahedral sites of its crystal structure exhibit opposite **spin**. Other known ferrimagnetic materials include yttrium iron garnet (YIG); cubic ferrites composed of iron oxides with other elements such as aluminum, cobalt, nickel, manganese, and zinc; and hexagonal...
330. ...luding rhenium ferrite, ReFeO, PbFeO and BaFeO and pyrrhotite, FeS. Ferrimagnetism can also occur in single-molecule magnets. A classic example is a dodecanuclear manganese molecule with an effective **spin** "S" = 10 derived from antiferromagnetic interaction on Mn(IV) metal centers with Mn(III) and Mn(II) metal centers. Neoprene Neoprene (also polychloroprene) is a family of synthetic rubbers that are p...
331. ...formula_1 or formula_2. The density is determined, through definition, by the normalised formula_3-electron wavefunction which itself depends upon formula_4 variables (formula_5 spatial and formula_3 **spin** coordinates). Conversely, the density determines the wave function modulo up to a phase factor, providing the formal foundation of density functional theory. According to quantum mechanics, due to th...
332. ...ty) can provide an indicatory for nucleophilicity. The electronic density corresponding to a normalised formula_3-electron wavefunction formula_10 (with formula_11 and formula_12 denoting spatial and **spin** variables respectively) is defined as where the operator corresponding to the density observable is Computing formula_15 as defined above we can simplify the expression as follows. formula_16 In word...
333. ...known, taking the form where I is the ionisation energy of the system. Another more-general definition of a density is the "linear-response density". This is the density that when contracted with any **spin**-free, one-electron operator yields the associated property defined as the derivative of the energy. For example, a dipole moment is the derivative of the energy with respect to an external magnetic f...
334. ...ive a direct representation of the electron density. TEM, scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM) can be used to probe the electron density of specific individual atoms. **Spin** density is electron density applied to free radicals. It is defined as the total electron density of electrons of one spin minus the total electron density of the electrons of the other spin. One of...
335. ...AFM) can be used to probe the electron density of specific individual atoms. Spin density is electron density applied to free radicals. It is defined as the total electron density of electrons of one **spin** minus the total electron density of the electrons of the other spin. One of the ways to measure it experimentally is by electron spin resonance, neutron diffraction allows direct mapping of the spin...
336. ...l atoms. Spin density is electron density applied to free radicals. It is defined as the total electron density of electrons of one spin minus the total electron density of the electrons of the other **spin**. One of the ways to measure it experimentally is by electron spin resonance, neutron diffraction allows direct mapping of the spin density in 3D-space. Negative resistance In electronics, negative re...
337. .... It is defined as the total electron density of electrons of one spin minus the total electron density of the electrons of the other spin. One of the ways to measure it experimentally is by electron **spin** resonance, neutron diffraction allows direct mapping of the spin density in 3D-space. Negative resistance In electronics, negative resistance (NR) is a property of some electrical circuits and device...
338. ...spin minus the total electron density of the electrons of the other spin. One of the ways to measure it experimentally is by electron spin resonance, neutron diffraction allows direct mapping of the **spin** density in 3D-space. Negative resistance In electronics, negative resistance (NR) is a property of some electrical circuits and devices in which an increase in voltage across the device's terminals r...
339. ...lities like Ranger and Drill, the game introduced Mouthful Mode, in which Kirby expands his mouth to fit around objects to adopt their shape and absorb their abilities. Kirby has appeared in multiple **spin**-off games. In 1993, he was transformed into a pinball in "Kirby's Pinball Land" on the Game Boy. The following year, he returned in the form of a golf ball in the SNES game "Kirby's Dream Course", wh...
340. ...For most cases the electrons are travelling at a respectable fraction of the speed of light, so rigorously need to be considered using relativistic quantum mechanics via the Dirac equation, which as **spin** does not normally matter can be reduced to the Klein–Gordon equation. Fortunately one can side-step many complications and use a non-relativistic approach based around the Schrödinger equation. Follo...
341. ...f electronic states in atoms and molecules (then the phenomenon is called fluorescence or phosphorescence). On the other hand, nuclear shell transitions can emit high energy gamma rays, while nuclear **spin** transitions emit low energy radio waves. The emittance of an object quantifies how much light is emitted by it. This may be related to other properties of the object through the Stefan–Boltzmann law....
342. ...s of atomic "spins" that can be in one of two states (+1 or −1). The spins are arranged in a graph, usually a lattice (where the local structure repeats periodically in all directions), allowing each **spin** to interact with its neighbors. Neighboring spins that agree have a lower energy than those that disagree; the system tends to the lowest energy but heat disturbs this tendency, thus creating the pos...
343. ...thereby, arbitrarily large dimensionality within tree branches. The solution to this model exhibited a new, unusual phase transition behavior, along with non-vanishing long-range and nearest-neighbor **spin**-spin correlations, deemed relevant to large neural networks as one of its possible . The Ising problem without an external field can be equivalently formulated as a graph maximum cut (Max-Cut) proble...
344. ...by, arbitrarily large dimensionality within tree branches. The solution to this model exhibited a new, unusual phase transition behavior, along with non-vanishing long-range and nearest-neighbor spin-**spin** correlations, deemed relevant to large neural networks as one of its possible . The Ising problem without an external field can be equivalently formulated as a graph maximum cut (Max-Cut) problem tha...
345. ...ith a set of adjacent sites (e.g. a graph) forming a formula_2-dimensional lattice. For each lattice site formula_3 there is a discrete variable formula_4 such that formula_5, representing the site's **spin**. A "spin configuration", formula_6 is an assignment of spin value to each lattice site. For any two adjacent sites formula_7 there is an "interaction" formula_8. Also a site formula_9 has an "externa...
346. ...of adjacent sites (e.g. a graph) forming a formula_2-dimensional lattice. For each lattice site formula_3 there is a discrete variable formula_4 such that formula_5, representing the site's spin. A "**spin** configuration", formula_6 is an assignment of spin value to each lattice site. For any two adjacent sites formula_7 there is an "interaction" formula_8. Also a site formula_9 has an "external magneti...
347. ..._2-dimensional lattice. For each lattice site formula_3 there is a discrete variable formula_4 such that formula_5, representing the site's spin. A "spin configuration", formula_6 is an assignment of **spin** value to each lattice site. For any two adjacent sites formula_7 there is an "interaction" formula_8. Also a site formula_9 has an "external magnetic field" formula_10 interacting with it. The "energ...
348. ...s. The magnetic moment is given by formula_16. Note that the sign in the second term of the Hamiltonian above should actually be positive because the electron's magnetic moment is antiparallel to its **spin**, but the negative term is used conventionally. The "configuration probability" is given by the Boltzmann distribution with inverse temperature formula_17: formula_18 where formula_19, and the normali...
349. ...ions in which adjacent spins are of the same sign have higher probability. In an antiferromagnetic model, adjacent spins tend to have opposite signs. The sign convention of "H"(σ) also explains how a **spin** site "j" interacts with the external field. Namely, the spin site wants to line up with the external field. If: Ising models are often examined without an external field interacting with the lattice,...
350. ...probability. In an antiferromagnetic model, adjacent spins tend to have opposite signs. The sign convention of "H"(σ) also explains how a spin site "j" interacts with the external field. Namely, the **spin** site wants to line up with the external field. If: Ising models are often examined without an external field interacting with the lattice, that is, "h" = 0 for all "j" in the lattice Λ. Using this si...
351. ..."j" in the lattice Λ. Using this simplification, the Hamiltonian becomes formula_27 When the external field is zero everywhere, "h" = 0, the Ising model is symmetric under switching the value of the **spin** in all the lattice sites; a nonzero field breaks this symmetry. Another common simplification is to assume that all of the nearest neighbors ⟨"ij"⟩ have the same interaction strength. Then we can set...
352. ...other cut, varying S. For the Ising model without an external field on a graph G, the Hamiltonian becomes the following sum over the graph edges E(G) formula_29. Here each vertex i of the graph is a **spin** site that takes a spin value formula_30. A given spin configuration formula_25 partitions the set of vertices formula_32 into two formula_25-depended subsets, those with spin up formula_34 and those...
353. ...For the Ising model without an external field on a graph G, the Hamiltonian becomes the following sum over the graph edges E(G) formula_29. Here each vertex i of the graph is a spin site that takes a **spin** value formula_30. A given spin configuration formula_25 partitions the set of vertices formula_32 into two formula_25-depended subsets, those with spin up formula_34 and those with spin down formula_...
354. ...external field on a graph G, the Hamiltonian becomes the following sum over the graph edges E(G) formula_29. Here each vertex i of the graph is a spin site that takes a spin value formula_30. A given **spin** configuration formula_25 partitions the set of vertices formula_32 into two formula_25-depended subsets, those with spin up formula_34 and those with spin down formula_35. We denote by formula_36 the...
355. ...rtex i of the graph is a spin site that takes a spin value formula_30. A given spin configuration formula_25 partitions the set of vertices formula_32 into two formula_25-depended subsets, those with **spin** up formula_34 and those with spin down formula_35. We denote by formula_36 the formula_25-depended set of edges that connects the two complementary vertex subsets formula_34 and formula_35. The "size...
356. ...that takes a spin value formula_30. A given spin configuration formula_25 partitions the set of vertices formula_32 into two formula_25-depended subsets, those with spin up formula_34 and those with **spin** down formula_35. We denote by formula_36 the formula_25-depended set of edges that connects the two complementary vertex subsets formula_34 and formula_35. The "size" formula_40 of the cut formula_36...
357. ...formula, using a limit formula for Fredholm determinants, proved in 1951 by Szegő in direct response to Onsager's work. A number of correlation inequalities have been derived rigorously for the Ising **spin** correlations (for general lattice structures), which have enabled mathematicians to study the Ising model both on and off criticality. Given any subset of spins formula_56 and formula_57 on the latti...
358. ...t a phase transition occurs in two dimensions. To do this, he compared the high-temperature and low-temperature limits. At infinite temperature (β = 0) all configurations have equal probability. Each **spin** is completely independent of any other, and if typical configurations at infinite temperature are plotted so that plus/minus are represented by black and white, they look like television snow. For hi...
359. ...o clump a little bit, but the screen stays randomly looking, and there is no net excess of black or white. A quantitative measure of the excess is the magnetization, which is the average value of the **spin**: formula_70 A bogus argument analogous to the argument in the last section now establishes that the magnetization in the Ising model is always zero. As before, this only proves that the average magne...
360. ...sh the system from a mostly plus state to a mostly minus with a nonzero probability. For very high temperatures, the magnetization is zero, as it is at infinite temperature. To see this, note that if **spin** A has only a small correlation ε with spin B, and B is only weakly correlated with C, but C is otherwise independent of A, the amount of correlation of A and C goes like ε. For two spins separated by...
361. ...mostly minus with a nonzero probability. For very high temperatures, the magnetization is zero, as it is at infinite temperature. To see this, note that if spin A has only a small correlation ε with **spin** B, and B is only weakly correlated with C, but C is otherwise independent of A, the amount of correlation of A and C goes like ε. For two spins separated by distance "L", the amount of correlation go...
362. ...eierls asked whether it is statistically possible at low temperature, starting with all the spins minus, to fluctuate to a state where most of the spins are plus. For this to happen, droplets of plus **spin** must be able to congeal to make the plus state. The energy of a droplet of plus spins in a minus background is proportional to the perimeter of the droplet L, where plus spins and minus spins neighbo...
363. ...but this contributes to the partition function multiplied by the total number of droplets with perimeter "L", which is less than the total number of paths of length "L": formula_73 So that the total **spin** contribution from droplets, even overcounting by allowing each site to have a separate droplet, is bounded above by formula_74 which goes to zero at large β. For β sufficiently large, this exponentia...
364. ...ermanent currents though, as shown by Larmor. In order to have ferromagnetism, the atoms must have permanent magnetic moments which are not due to the motion of classical charges. Once the electron's **spin** was discovered, it was clear that the magnetism should be due to a large number of electron spins all oriented in the same direction. It was natural to ask how the electrons' spins all know which dir...
365. ...neighbors. Note that this generalization of Ising model is sometimes called the quadratic exponential binary distribution in statistics. This energy function only introduces probability biases for a **spin** having a value and for a pair of spins having the same value. Higher order correlations are unconstrained by the multipliers. An activity pattern sampled from this distribution requires the largest n...
366. ...as random as possible, with constraints on the pairwise correlations and the average number of 1s, which frequently occurs in both the physical and social sciences. With the Ising model the so-called **spin** glasses can also be described, by the usual Hamiltonian formula_81 where the "S"-variables describe the Ising spins, while the "J" are taken from a random distribution. For spin glasses a typical dis...
367. ...g model the so-called spin glasses can also be described, by the usual Hamiltonian formula_81 where the "S"-variables describe the Ising spins, while the "J" are taken from a random distribution. For **spin** glasses a typical distribution chooses antiferromagnetic bonds with probability "p" and ferromagnetic bonds with probability 1 − "p" (also known as the random-bond Ising model). These bonds stay fixe...
368. ...of an Ising model by Hebbian learning rule as a model of associative memory. The same idea was published by (, 1974), who was cited by Hopfield in his 1982 paper. The Sherrington–Kirkpatrick model of **spin** glass, published in 1975, is the Hopfield network with random initialization. Sherrington and Kirkpatrick found that it is highly likely for the energy function of the SK model to have many local min...
369. ...Ising model on the closed Cayley tree (with an arbitrarily large branching ratio) for a zero-external magnetic field (in the thermodynamic limit) by applying the methodologies of and  formula_84 The **spin**-spin correlation between sites (in general, m and n) on the tree was found to have a transition point when considered at the vertices (e.g. A and Ā, its reflection), their respective neighboring site...
370. ...g model on the closed Cayley tree (with an arbitrarily large branching ratio) for a zero-external magnetic field (in the thermodynamic limit) by applying the methodologies of and  formula_84 The spin-**spin** correlation between sites (in general, m and n) on the tree was found to have a transition point when considered at the vertices (e.g. A and Ā, its reflection), their respective neighboring sites (su...
371. ...the number of graphs counted for odd vertices with even intermediate sites (see cited methodologies and references for detailed calculations), formula_94 is the multiplicity resulting from two-valued **spin** possibilities and the partition function formula_95 is derived from formula_96. (Note: formula_97 is consistent with the referenced literature in this section and is equivalent to formula_98 or formu...
372. ...ching ratio to its transitional behavior.) For example, a relationship between the transition behavior of activities of neural networks between sleeping and wakeful states (which may correlate with a **spin**-spin type of phase transition) in terms of changes in neural interconnectivity (formula_85) and/or neighbor-to-neighbor interactions (formula_89), over time, is just one possible avenue suggested for...
373. ...ratio to its transitional behavior.) For example, a relationship between the transition behavior of activities of neural networks between sleeping and wakeful states (which may correlate with a spin-**spin** type of phase transition) in terms of changes in neural interconnectivity (formula_85) and/or neighbor-to-neighbor interactions (formula_89), over time, is just one possible avenue suggested for furt...
374. ...nomenon. In any case, for this Ising model it was established, that “the stability of the long-range correlation increases with increasing formula_85 or increasing formula_89.” For this topology, the **spin**-spin correlation was found to be zero between the extreme vertices and the central sites at which the two trees (or branches) are joined (i.e. between A and individually C, D, or E.) This behavior is...
375. ...on. In any case, for this Ising model it was established, that “the stability of the long-range correlation increases with increasing formula_85 or increasing formula_89.” For this topology, the spin-**spin** correlation was found to be zero between the extreme vertices and the central sites at which the two trees (or branches) are joined (i.e. between A and individually C, D, or E.) This behavior is expl...
376. ...y C, D, or E.) This behavior is explained to be due to the fact that, as k increases, the number of links increases exponentially (between the extreme vertices) and so even though the contribution to **spin** correlations decrease exponentially, the correlation between sites such as the extreme vertex (A) in one tree and the extreme vertex in the joined tree (Ā) remains finite (above the critical temperat...
377. ...models as a comparison, the Ising model on a closed Cayley tree was determined to be the first classical statistical mechanical model to demonstrate both local and long-range sites with non-vanishing **spin**-spin correlations, while at the same time exhibiting intermediate sites with zero correlation, which indeed was a relevant matter for large neural networks at the time of its consideration. The model...
378. ...s as a comparison, the Ising model on a closed Cayley tree was determined to be the first classical statistical mechanical model to demonstrate both local and long-range sites with non-vanishing spin-**spin** correlations, while at the same time exhibiting intermediate sites with zero correlation, which indeed was a relevant matter for large neural networks at the time of its consideration. The model's be...
379. ...with underlying quantum constituents and their physics. The Ising model can often be difficult to evaluate numerically if there are many states in the system. Consider an Ising model with Since every **spin** site has ±1 spin, there are "2" different states that are possible. This motivates the reason for the Ising model to be simulated using Monte Carlo methods. The Hamiltonian that is commonly used to r...
380. ...uantum constituents and their physics. The Ising model can often be difficult to evaluate numerically if there are many states in the system. Consider an Ising model with Since every spin site has ±1 **spin**, there are "2" different states that are possible. This motivates the reason for the Ising model to be simulated using Monte Carlo methods. The Hamiltonian that is commonly used to represent the ener...
381. ...must ensure that "g"(μ, ν) is selected such that ergodicity is met. In thermal equilibrium a system's energy only fluctuates within a small range. This is the motivation behind the concept of single-**spin**-flip dynamics, which states that in each transition, we will only change one of the spin sites on the lattice. Furthermore, by using single- spin-flip dynamics, one can get from any state to any othe...
382. ...um a system's energy only fluctuates within a small range. This is the motivation behind the concept of single-spin-flip dynamics, which states that in each transition, we will only change one of the **spin** sites on the lattice. Furthermore, by using single- spin-flip dynamics, one can get from any state to any other state by flipping each site that differs between the two states one at a time. The maxi...
383. .... This is the motivation behind the concept of single-spin-flip dynamics, which states that in each transition, we will only change one of the spin sites on the lattice. Furthermore, by using single- **spin**-flip dynamics, one can get from any state to any other state by flipping each site that differs between the two states one at a time. The maximum amount of change between the energy of the present st...
384. ...y flipping each site that differs between the two states one at a time. The maximum amount of change between the energy of the present state, "H" and any possible new state's energy "H" (using single-**spin**-flip dynamics) is 2"J" between the spin we choose to "flip" to move to the new state and that spin's neighbor. Thus, in a 1D Ising model, where each site has two neighbors (left and right), the maxim...
385. ...n the two states one at a time. The maximum amount of change between the energy of the present state, "H" and any possible new state's energy "H" (using single-spin-flip dynamics) is 2"J" between the **spin** we choose to "flip" to move to the new state and that spin's neighbor. Thus, in a 1D Ising model, where each site has two neighbors (left and right), the maximum difference in energy would be 4"J". L...
386. ...e between the energy of the present state, "H" and any possible new state's energy "H" (using single-spin-flip dynamics) is 2"J" between the spin we choose to "flip" to move to the new state and that **spin**'s neighbor. Thus, in a 1D Ising model, where each site has two neighbors (left and right), the maximum difference in energy would be 4"J". Let "c" represent the "lattice coordination number"; the num...
387. ...lff algorithm are required in order to resolve the model near the critical point; a requirement for determining the critical exponents of the system. Specifically for the Ising model and using single-**spin**-flip dynamics, one can establish the following. Since there are "L" total sites on the lattice, using single-spin-flip as the only way we transition to another state, we can see that there are a tota...
388. ...e critical exponents of the system. Specifically for the Ising model and using single-spin-flip dynamics, one can establish the following. Since there are "L" total sites on the lattice, using single-**spin**-flip as the only way we transition to another state, we can see that there are a total of "L" new states ν from our present state μ. The algorithm assumes that the selection probabilities are equal t...
389. ..."(μ, ν) or "A"(ν, μ) to be 1. By this reasoning the acceptance algorithm is: formula_113 The basic form of the algorithm is as follows: The change in energy "H" − "H" only depends on the value of the **spin** and its nearest graph neighbors. So if the graph is not too connected, the algorithm is fast. This process will eventually produce a pick from the distribution. It is possible to view the Ising model...
390. ...ility "P"(ν) of transitioning to a future state ν only depends on the present state μ. The Metropolis algorithm is actually a version of a Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation, and since we use single-**spin**-flip dynamics in the Metropolis algorithm, every state can be viewed as having links to exactly "L" other states, where each transition corresponds to flipping a single spin site to the opposite valu...
391. ..., and since we use single-spin-flip dynamics in the Metropolis algorithm, every state can be viewed as having links to exactly "L" other states, where each transition corresponds to flipping a single **spin** site to the opposite value. Furthermore, since the energy equation "H" change only depends on the nearest-neighbor interaction strength "J", the Ising model and its variants such the Sznajd model can...
392. ...is a constant representing the interaction strength between the nearest neighbors and "h" is the constant external magnetic field applied to lattice sites. Then the free energy is formula_120 and the **spin**-spin correlation (i.e. the covariance) is formula_121 where "C"(β) and "c"(β) are positive functions for "T" > 0. For "T" → 0, though, the inverse correlation length "c"(β) vanishes. The proof of thi...
393. ...constant representing the interaction strength between the nearest neighbors and "h" is the constant external magnetic field applied to lattice sites. Then the free energy is formula_120 and the spin-**spin** correlation (i.e. the covariance) is formula_121 where "C"(β) and "c"(β) are positive functions for "T" > 0. For "T" → 0, though, the inverse correlation length "c"(β) vanishes. The proof of this res...
394. ...e number of sign changes in a configuration as "k", the difference in energy from the lowest energy state is 2"k". Since the energy is additive in the number of flips, the probability "p" of having a **spin**-flip at each position is independent. The ratio of the probability of finding a flip to the probability of not finding one is the Boltzmann factor: formula_133 The problem is reduced to independent b...
395. ...ntially, since there is a constant probability at any step of encountering a flip. The domains never become infinite, so a long system is never magnetized. Each step reduces the correlation between a **spin** and its neighbor by an amount proportional to "p", so the correlations fall off exponentially. formula_134 The partition function is the volume of configurations, each configuration weighted by its B...
396. ...ansition is a non-analytic free energy, so the one-dimensional model does not have a phase transition. To express the Ising Hamiltonian using a quantum mechanical description of spins, we replace the **spin** variables with their respective Pauli matrices. However, depending on the direction of the magnetic field, we can create a transverse-field or longitudinal-field Hamiltonian. The transverse-field Ham...
397. ...e. For the triangular lattice, which is not bi-partite, the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic Ising model behave notably differently. Specifically, around a triangle, it is impossible to make all 3 **spin**-pairs antiparallel, so the antiferromagnetic Ising model cannot reach the minimal energy state. This is an example of geometric frustration. Start with an analogy with quantum mechanics. The Ising mo...
398. ...rection as "space", and the "j" direction as "time". This is an independent sum over all the values that the spins can take at each time slice. This is a type of path integral, it is the sum over all **spin** histories. A path integral can be rewritten as a Hamiltonian evolution. The Hamiltonian steps through time by performing a unitary rotation between time "t" and time "t" + Δ"t": formula_170 The produ...
399. ...ice, "T" has matrix elements between two configurations of spins, one in the immediate future and one in the immediate past. These two configurations are "C" and "C", and they are all one-dimensional **spin** configurations. We can think of the vector space that "T" acts on as all complex linear combinations of these. Using quantum mechanical notation: formula_173 where each basis vector formula_174 is a...
400. ...configurations. We can think of the vector space that "T" acts on as all complex linear combinations of these. Using quantum mechanical notation: formula_173 where each basis vector formula_174 is a **spin** configuration of a one-dimensional Ising model. Like the Hamiltonian, the transfer matrix acts on all linear combinations of states. The partition function is a matrix function of T, which is defined...
401. ...f we can diagonalize the matrix "T", we can find "Z". The contribution to the partition function for each past/future pair of configurations on a slice is the sum of two terms. There is the number of **spin** flips in the past slice and there is the number of spin flips between the past and future slice. Define an operator on configurations which flips the spin at site i: formula_176 In the usual Ising ba...
402. ...e contribution to the partition function for each past/future pair of configurations on a slice is the sum of two terms. There is the number of spin flips in the past slice and there is the number of **spin** flips between the past and future slice. Define an operator on configurations which flips the spin at site i: formula_176 In the usual Ising basis, acting on any linear combination of past configurat...
403. ...the sum of two terms. There is the number of spin flips in the past slice and there is the number of spin flips between the past and future slice. Define an operator on configurations which flips the **spin** at site i: formula_176 In the usual Ising basis, acting on any linear combination of past configurations, it produces the same linear combination but with the spin at position i of each basis vector...
404. ...r on configurations which flips the spin at site i: formula_176 In the usual Ising basis, acting on any linear combination of past configurations, it produces the same linear combination but with the **spin** at position i of each basis vector flipped. Define a second operator which multiplies the basis vector by +1 and −1 according to the spin at position "i": formula_177 "T" can be written in terms of t...
405. ...rations, it produces the same linear combination but with the spin at position i of each basis vector flipped. Define a second operator which multiplies the basis vector by +1 and −1 according to the **spin** at position "i": formula_177 "T" can be written in terms of these: formula_178 where "A" and "B" are constants which are to be determined so as to reproduce the partition function. The interpretation...
406. ...are constants which are to be determined so as to reproduce the partition function. The interpretation is that the statistical configuration at this slice contributes according to both the number of **spin** flips in the slice, and whether or not the spin at position "i" has flipped. Just as in the one-dimensional case, we will shift attention from the spins to the spin-flips. The σ term in "T" counts th...
407. ...to reproduce the partition function. The interpretation is that the statistical configuration at this slice contributes according to both the number of spin flips in the slice, and whether or not the **spin** at position "i" has flipped. Just as in the one-dimensional case, we will shift attention from the spins to the spin-flips. The σ term in "T" counts the number of spin flips, which we can write in te...
408. ...es according to both the number of spin flips in the slice, and whether or not the spin at position "i" has flipped. Just as in the one-dimensional case, we will shift attention from the spins to the **spin**-flips. The σ term in "T" counts the number of spin flips, which we can write in terms of spin-flip creation and annihilation operators: formula_179 The first term flips a spin, so depending on the ba...
409. ...e slice, and whether or not the spin at position "i" has flipped. Just as in the one-dimensional case, we will shift attention from the spins to the spin-flips. The σ term in "T" counts the number of **spin** flips, which we can write in terms of spin-flip creation and annihilation operators: formula_179 The first term flips a spin, so depending on the basis state it either: Writing this out in terms of c...
410. ...ition "i" has flipped. Just as in the one-dimensional case, we will shift attention from the spins to the spin-flips. The σ term in "T" counts the number of spin flips, which we can write in terms of **spin**-flip creation and annihilation operators: formula_179 The first term flips a spin, so depending on the basis state it either: Writing this out in terms of creation and annihilation operators: formula...
411. ...n from the spins to the spin-flips. The σ term in "T" counts the number of spin flips, which we can write in terms of spin-flip creation and annihilation operators: formula_179 The first term flips a **spin**, so depending on the basis state it either: Writing this out in terms of creation and annihilation operators: formula_180 Ignore the constant coefficients, and focus attention on the form. They are a...
412. ...for Toeplitz determinants by treating the magnetization as the limit of correlation functions. At the critical point, the two-dimensional Ising model is a two-dimensional conformal field theory. The **spin** and energy correlation functions are described by a minimal model, which has been exactly solved. In three as in two dimensions, the most studied case of the Ising model is the translation-invariant...
413. ...method currently yields the most precise information about the structure of the critical theory (see Ising critical exponents). In 2000, Sorin Istrail of Sandia National Laboratories proved that the **spin** glass Ising model on a nonplanar lattice is NP-complete. That is, assuming P ≠ NP, the general spin glass Ising model is exactly solvable only in planar cases, so solutions for dimensions higher than...
414. ...e Ising critical exponents). In 2000, Sorin Istrail of Sandia National Laboratories proved that the spin glass Ising model on a nonplanar lattice is NP-complete. That is, assuming P ≠ NP, the general **spin** glass Ising model is exactly solvable only in planar cases, so solutions for dimensions higher than two are also intractable. Istrail's result only concerns the spin glass model with spatially varyin...
415. ...is, assuming P ≠ NP, the general spin glass Ising model is exactly solvable only in planar cases, so solutions for dimensions higher than two are also intractable. Istrail's result only concerns the **spin** glass model with spatially varying couplings, and tells nothing about Ising's original ferromagnetic model with equal couplings. In any dimension, the Ising model can be productively described by a l...
416. ...g about Ising's original ferromagnetic model with equal couplings. In any dimension, the Ising model can be productively described by a locally varying mean field. The field is defined as the average **spin** value over a large region, but not so large so as to include the entire system. The field still has slow variations from point to point, as the averaging volume moves. These fluctuations in the field...
417. ...eraging volume moves. These fluctuations in the field are described by a continuum field theory in the infinite system limit. The field "H" is defined as the long wavelength Fourier components of the **spin** variable, in the limit that the wavelengths are long. There are many ways to take the long wavelength average, depending on the details of how high wavelengths are cut off. The details are not too im...
418. ..." is a coarse description, there are many Ising configurations consistent with each value of "H", so long as not too much exactness is required for the match. Since the allowed range of values of the **spin** in any region only depends on the values of "H" within one averaging volume from that region, the free energy contribution from each region only depends on the value of "H" there and in the neighbori...
419. ...This term is the most significant, but it gives trivial behavior. This form of the free energy is ultralocal, meaning that it is a sum of an independent contribution from each point. This is like the **spin**-flips in the one-dimensional Ising model. Every value of "H" at any point fluctuates completely independently of the value at any other point. The scale of the field can be redefined to absorb the co...
420. ...his iteration will converge to a fixed point when the temperature is tuned to criticality. Write the two-dimensional Ising model with an infinite number of possible higher order interactions. To keep **spin** reflection symmetry, only even powers contribute: formula_224 By translation invariance, "J" is only a function of i-j. By the accidental rotational symmetry, at large i and j its size only depends o...
421. ...in "J", consider the four neighbors of an odd site. These are the only spins which interact with it. The multiplicative contribution to the partition function from the sum over the two values of the **spin** at the odd site is: formula_226 where "N" is the number of neighbors which are ±. Ignoring the factor of 2, the free energy contribution from this odd site is: formula_227 This includes nearest neigh...
422. ...ch are ±. Ignoring the factor of 2, the free energy contribution from this odd site is: formula_227 This includes nearest neighbor and next-nearest neighbor interactions, as expected, but also a four-**spin** interaction which is to be discarded. To truncate to nearest neighbor interactions, consider that the difference in energy between all spins the same and equal numbers + and – is: formula_228 From ne...
423. ...rmula_228 From nearest neighbor couplings, the difference in energy between all spins equal and staggered spins is 8"J". The difference in energy between all spins equal and nonstaggered but net zero **spin** is 4"J". Ignoring four-spin interactions, a reasonable truncation is the average of these two energies or 6"J". Since each link will contribute to two odd spins, the right value to compare with the p...
424. ...bor couplings, the difference in energy between all spins equal and staggered spins is 8"J". The difference in energy between all spins equal and nonstaggered but net zero spin is 4"J". Ignoring four-**spin** interactions, a reasonable truncation is the average of these two energies or 6"J". Since each link will contribute to two odd spins, the right value to compare with the previous one is half that: fo...
425. ...tablish modern electron band theory. In particular, the original Fowler–Nordheim-type equation was one of the first to incorporate the statistical-mechanical consequences of the existence of electron **spin** into the theory of an experimental condensed-matter effect. The Fowler–Nordheim paper also established the physical basis for a unified treatment of field-induced and thermally induced electron emiss...
426. ...hagodzilla II". Stock footage of King Ghidorah was used in four episodes of "Courage the Cowardly Dog": "Courage in the Big Stinkin' City", "The Tower of Dr. Zalost", Fishy Business and "Nowhere TV". **Spin**-off characters based on King Ghidorah (although quadrupedal in appearance) were featured in other Toho films: Desghidorah in "Rebirth of Mothra " and Keizer Ghidorah in "". A post-credits scene in ""...
427. ...evel decision-making was in the hands of professional salaried managers, leading Chandler to call the German dye companies "the world's first truly managerial industrial enterprises". There were many **spin** offs from research—such as the pharmaceutical industry, which emerged from chemical research. Belgium during the Belle Époque showed the value of the railways for speeding the Second Industrial Revol...
428. ...hange is much slower than for the exchanges within the isolated mode. One example is the case of nuclear spins in a strong external magnetic field. In this case, energy flows fairly rapidly among the **spin** states of interacting atoms, but energy transfer between the nuclear spins and other modes is relatively slow. Since the energy flow is predominantly within the spin system, it makes sense to think o...
429. ...gy flows fairly rapidly among the spin states of interacting atoms, but energy transfer between the nuclear spins and other modes is relatively slow. Since the energy flow is predominantly within the **spin** system, it makes sense to think of a spin temperature that is distinct from the temperature associated to other modes. A definition of temperature can be based on the relationship: The relationship s...
430. ...tes of interacting atoms, but energy transfer between the nuclear spins and other modes is relatively slow. Since the energy flow is predominantly within the spin system, it makes sense to think of a **spin** temperature that is distinct from the temperature associated to other modes. A definition of temperature can be based on the relationship: The relationship suggests that a "positive temperature" corr...
431. ...tropy, , increases as thermal energy, , is added to the system. This is the "normal" condition in the macroscopic world, and is always the case for the translational, vibrational, rotational, and non-**spin**-related electronic and nuclear modes. The reason for this is that there are an infinite number of these types of modes, and adding more heat to the system increases the number of modes that are energ...
432. ...lized by a system of nuclear spins in an external magnetic field. This allows the experiment to be run as a variation of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In the case of electronic and nuclear **spin** systems, there are only a finite number of modes available, often just two, corresponding to spin up and spin down. In the absence of a magnetic field, these spin states are "degenerate", meaning tha...
433. ...run as a variation of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In the case of electronic and nuclear spin systems, there are only a finite number of modes available, often just two, corresponding to **spin** up and spin down. In the absence of a magnetic field, these spin states are "degenerate", meaning that they correspond to the same energy. When an external magnetic field is applied, the energy level...
434. ...riation of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. In the case of electronic and nuclear spin systems, there are only a finite number of modes available, often just two, corresponding to spin up and **spin** down. In the absence of a magnetic field, these spin states are "degenerate", meaning that they correspond to the same energy. When an external magnetic field is applied, the energy levels are split,...
435. ...n the case of electronic and nuclear spin systems, there are only a finite number of modes available, often just two, corresponding to spin up and spin down. In the absence of a magnetic field, these **spin** states are "degenerate", meaning that they correspond to the same energy. When an external magnetic field is applied, the energy levels are split, since those spin states that are aligned with the ma...
436. ...absence of a magnetic field, these spin states are "degenerate", meaning that they correspond to the same energy. When an external magnetic field is applied, the energy levels are split, since those **spin** states that are aligned with the magnetic field will have a different energy from those that are anti-parallel to it. In the absence of a magnetic field, such a two-spin system would have maximum ent...
437. ...levels are split, since those spin states that are aligned with the magnetic field will have a different energy from those that are anti-parallel to it. In the absence of a magnetic field, such a two-**spin** system would have maximum entropy when half the atoms are in the spin-up state and half are in the spin-down state, and so one would expect to find the system with close to an equal distribution of s...
438. ...gnetic field will have a different energy from those that are anti-parallel to it. In the absence of a magnetic field, such a two-spin system would have maximum entropy when half the atoms are in the **spin**-up state and half are in the spin-down state, and so one would expect to find the system with close to an equal distribution of spins. Upon application of a magnetic field, some of the atoms will ten...
439. ...energy from those that are anti-parallel to it. In the absence of a magnetic field, such a two-spin system would have maximum entropy when half the atoms are in the spin-up state and half are in the **spin**-down state, and so one would expect to find the system with close to an equal distribution of spins. Upon application of a magnetic field, some of the atoms will tend to align so as to minimize the e...
440. ...eld, some of the atoms will tend to align so as to minimize the energy of the system, thus slightly more atoms should be in the lower-energy state (for the purposes of this example we will assume the **spin**-down state is the lower-energy state). It is possible to add energy to the spin system using radio frequency techniques. This causes atoms to "flip" from spin-down to spin-up. Since we started with o...
441. ...stem, thus slightly more atoms should be in the lower-energy state (for the purposes of this example we will assume the spin-down state is the lower-energy state). It is possible to add energy to the **spin** system using radio frequency techniques. This causes atoms to "flip" from spin-down to spin-up. Since we started with over half the atoms in the spin-down state, this initially drives the system towa...
442. ...poses of this example we will assume the spin-down state is the lower-energy state). It is possible to add energy to the spin system using radio frequency techniques. This causes atoms to "flip" from **spin**-down to spin-up. Since we started with over half the atoms in the spin-down state, this initially drives the system towards a 50/50 mixture, so the entropy is increasing, corresponding to a positive...
443. ...example we will assume the spin-down state is the lower-energy state). It is possible to add energy to the spin system using radio frequency techniques. This causes atoms to "flip" from spin-down to **spin**-up. Since we started with over half the atoms in the spin-down state, this initially drives the system towards a 50/50 mixture, so the entropy is increasing, corresponding to a positive temperature....
444. ...nergy state). It is possible to add energy to the spin system using radio frequency techniques. This causes atoms to "flip" from spin-down to spin-up. Since we started with over half the atoms in the **spin**-down state, this initially drives the system towards a 50/50 mixture, so the entropy is increasing, corresponding to a positive temperature. However, at some point, more than half of the spins are in...
445. ...state, this initially drives the system towards a 50/50 mixture, so the entropy is increasing, corresponding to a positive temperature. However, at some point, more than half of the spins are in the **spin**-up position. In this case, adding additional energy reduces the entropy, since it moves the system further from a 50/50 mixture. This reduction in entropy with the addition of energy corresponds to a...
446. ...0/50 mixture. This reduction in entropy with the addition of energy corresponds to a negative temperature. In NMR spectroscopy, this corresponds to pulses with a pulse width of over 180° (for a given **spin**). While relaxation is fast in solids, it can take several seconds in solutions and even longer in gases and in ultracold systems; several hours were reported for silver and rhodium at picokelvin temp...
447. ...temperatures. It is still important to understand that the temperature is negative only with respect to nuclear spins. Other degrees of freedom, such as molecular vibrational, electronic and electron **spin** levels are at a positive temperature, so the object still has positive sensible heat. Relaxation actually happens by exchange of energy between the nuclear spin states and other states (e.g. through...
448. ...r vibrational, electronic and electron spin levels are at a positive temperature, so the object still has positive sensible heat. Relaxation actually happens by exchange of energy between the nuclear **spin** states and other states (e.g. through the nuclear Overhauser effect with other spins). This phenomenon can also be observed in many lasing systems, wherein a large fraction of the system's atoms (for...
449. ...have a large magnetic dipole moment because it has 4 unpaired electrons in its electron structure as opposed to (on average) 3 in iron. In a magnet it is the unpaired electrons, aligned so that their **spin** is in the same direction, which generate the magnetic field. This gives the NdFeB compound a high saturation magnetization ("J" ≈ 1.6T or 16kG) and a remanent magnetization of typically 1.3 teslas. T...
450. ...fluoride (VDF) monomer by a free-radical (or controlled-radical) polymerization process. This may be followed by processes such as melt casting, or processing from a solution (e.g. solution casting, **spin** coating, and film casting). Langmuir–Blodgett films have also been made. In the case of solution-based processing, typical solvents used include dimethylformamide and the more volatile butanone. In a...
451. ...GPa. It is also possible that if the bipolaron explanation is correct, a normally semiconducting material can transition under some conditions into a superconductor if a critical level of alternating **spin** coupling in a single plane within the lattice is exceeded; this may have been documented in very early experiments from 1986. The best analogy here would be anisotropic magnetoresistance, but in this...
452. ...to zero rather than a decrease within a very narrow temperature range for the compounds tested similar to "re-entrant superconductivity". In 2018, support was found for electrons having anomalous 3/2 **spin** states in YPtBi. Though YPtBi is a relatively low temperature superconductor, this does suggest another approach to creating superconductors. "Quantum bipolarons" could describe how a material might...
453. ...electrons may still be many hundreds of nanometers apart. This distance is usually greater than the average interelectron distance so that many Cooper pairs can occupy the same space. Electrons have **spin**-, so they are fermions, but the total spin of a Cooper pair is integer (0 or 1) so it is a composite boson. This means the wave functions are symmetric under particle interchange. Therefore, unlike e...
454. ...nometers apart. This distance is usually greater than the average interelectron distance so that many Cooper pairs can occupy the same space. Electrons have spin-, so they are fermions, but the total **spin** of a Cooper pair is integer (0 or 1) so it is a composite boson. This means the wave functions are symmetric under particle interchange. Therefore, unlike electrons, multiple Cooper pairs are allowed...
455. ...). The Vertex and Apex were non-ISO standard drives and used proprietary media. Pinnacle Micro has ceased production of these products. LMSI produced 5.25" magneto-optical drives as well. Maxoptix, a **spin**-off of Maxtor Corp., was a major manufacturer of 130 mm or 5.25" magneto-optical drives. A current model is the T7-9100 drive, which has a maximum capacity of 9.1 GB and is downward read and write co...
456. ...undle; as a result, one may write a line bundle on a Riemann surface as a flat bundle, with "N" singular points and a covariantly constant section. When the manifold is four-dimensional, possessing a **spin** structure, then one may write a very similar functional, the Seiberg–Witten functional, which may be analyzed in a similar fashion, and which possesses many similar properties, including self-duality...
457. ...n issue. Several issues of "Captain Marvel Adventures" included a blurb on their covers proclaiming the series the "Largest Circulation of Any Comic Magazine". The franchise was expanded to introduce **spin**-off characters to Captain Marvel between 1941 and 1942. "Whiz Comics" #21 (1941) introduced the Lieutenant Marvels: three other boys named "Billy Batson" who could also become adult superheroes. Capt...
458. ...Wow Comics", respectively. Captain Marvel, Captain Marvel Jr., and Mary Marvel appeared together as a team in another Fawcett publication, "The Marvel Family". In addition, there was a talking animal **spin**-off character, Hoppy the Marvel Bunny, which was created in 1942 for Fawcett's "Funny Animals" comic book and later given an eponymous series as well. With Bill Parker having been drafted into World...
459. ...the classic Fawcett versions of Captain Marvel and the Marvel Family appeared in Grant Morrison's 2014 miniseries "The Multiversity" (which takes place on the parallel world of Earth-5) and in a 2015 **spin**-off to the "Convergence" crossover event, "Convergence: Shazam!" (which takes place on the parallel world of Earth-S). Following DC's 2016 "DC Rebirth" soft-relaunch event, the "Shazam!" characters w...
460. ...eurons using 400 transistors and standard CMOS manufacturing techniques. In June 2012, spintronic researchers at Purdue University presented a paper on the design of a neuromorphic chip using lateral **spin** valves and memristors. They argue that the architecture works similarly to neurons and can therefore be used to test methods of reproducing the brain's processing. In addition, these chips are signif...
461. ...tably levitate so there may be other reasons not discussed here why it is not possible to maintain permanent magnets in orientations antiparallel to magnetic fields (at least not without rotation—see **spin**-stabilized magnetic levitation. Earnshaw's theorem was originally formulated for electrostatics (point charges) to show that there is no stable configuration of a collection of point charges. The pro...
462. .... In other words, the excess energy required to magnetize a specimen in a particular direction over that required to magnetize it along the easy direction is called crystalline anisotropy energy. The **spin**-orbit interaction is the primary source of magnetocrystalline anisotropy. It is basically the orbital motion of the electrons which couples with crystal electric field giving rise to the first order...
463. ...oposed his interaction, physicists suspected it to be of either two forms: on account of its short-range. However, there were many issues with his theory. For one, it is impossible for an electron of **spin** and a proton of spin to add up to the neutron spin of . The way Heisenberg treated this issue would go on to form the ideas of isospin. Heisenberg's idea of an exchange interaction (rather than a Cou...
464. ...n, physicists suspected it to be of either two forms: on account of its short-range. However, there were many issues with his theory. For one, it is impossible for an electron of spin and a proton of **spin** to add up to the neutron spin of . The way Heisenberg treated this issue would go on to form the ideas of isospin. Heisenberg's idea of an exchange interaction (rather than a Coulombic force) between...
465. ...be of either two forms: on account of its short-range. However, there were many issues with his theory. For one, it is impossible for an electron of spin and a proton of spin to add up to the neutron **spin** of . The way Heisenberg treated this issue would go on to form the ideas of isospin. Heisenberg's idea of an exchange interaction (rather than a Coulombic force) between particles inside the nucleus...
466. ...electric field at an atomic nucleus generated by the electronic charge distribution and the other nuclei. The EFG couples with the nuclear electric quadrupole moment of quadrupolar nuclei (those with **spin** quantum number greater than one-half) to generate an effect which can be measured using several spectroscopic methods, such as nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), microwave spectroscopy, electron param...
467. ...eeding substrates with ZnO creates sites for homogeneous nucleation of ZnO crystal during the synthesis. Common pre-seeding methods include in-situ thermal decomposition of zinc acetate crystallites, **spin** coating of ZnO nanoparticles, and the use of physical vapor deposition methods to deposit ZnO thin films. Pre-seeding can be performed in conjunction with top down patterning methods such as electron...
468. ...the Laporte Rule, which necessitates that the two energy states between which an electron transitions must have different symmetry. A fourth rule is that when an electron undergoes a transition, the **spin** state of the molecule/atom that contains the electron must be conserved. Under some circumstances, certain selection rules may be broken and excited electrons may make "forbidden" transitions. The sp...
469. ...at higher frequencies (shorter wavelengths) so that at microwave frequencies, used by satellite communications, the transmitted polarization is maintained between the satellite and the ground. Due to **spin**-orbit coupling, undoped GaAs single crystal exhibits much larger Faraday rotation than glass (SiO). Considering the atomic arrangement is different along the (100) and (110) plane, one might think th...
470. ...xtbooks explained the moment using hypothetical magnetic point charges. Since then, most have defined it in terms of Ampèrian currents. In magnetic materials, the cause of the magnetic moment are the **spin** and orbital angular momentum states of the electrons, and varies depending on whether atoms in one region are aligned with atoms in another. The sources of magnetic moments in materials can be repres...
471. ...etic dipole moment of a particle and its angular momentum still holds, although it is different for each particle. Further, care must be used to distinguish between the intrinsic angular momentum (or **spin**) of the particle and the particle's orbital angular momentum. See below for more details. The torque on an object having a magnetic dipole moment in a uniform magnetic field is: formula_17 This is va...
472. ...ted Nanogaps have shown great promise as electrodes in use in molecular scale electronics. Researchers have used feedback controlled electromigration to investigate the magnetoresistance of a quantum **spin** valve. Virtual ground In electronics, a virtual ground (or virtual earth) is a node of a circuit that is maintained at a steady reference potential, without being connected directly to the reference...
473. ...ve speed. Active bearings have several advantages: they do not suffer from wear, have low friction, and can often accommodate irregularities in the mass distribution automatically, allowing rotors to **spin** around their center of mass with very low vibration. Passive magnetic bearings use permanent magnets and, therefore, do not require any input power but are difficult to design due to the limitations...
474. ...and development of manufacturing processes and the research and development of microcircuit design. The first pure play semiconductor company is the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation, a **spin**-off of the government Industrial Technology Research Institute, which split its design and fabrication divisions in 1987, a model advocated for by Carver Mead in the U.S., but deemed too costly to pu...
475. ...nderstanding of the physical meaning and generalization of the renormalization process leading to Landau poles comes from condensed matter physics. Leo P. Kadanoff's paper in 1966 proposed the "block-**spin**" renormalization group. The "blocking idea" is a way to define the components of the theory at large distances as aggregates of components at shorter distances. This approach was developed by Kenneth...
476. ...orders of magnitude), it is not expected that black holes with a significant electric charge will be formed in nature. The two types of charged black holes are Reissner–Nordström black holes (without **spin**), and Kerr–Newman black holes (with spin). A black hole can be completely characterized by three (and only three) quantities: Charged black holes are two of four possible types of black holes that ha...
477. ...that black holes with a significant electric charge will be formed in nature. The two types of charged black holes are Reissner–Nordström black holes (without spin), and Kerr–Newman black holes (with **spin**). A black hole can be completely characterized by three (and only three) quantities: Charged black holes are two of four possible types of black holes that have been found by solving Einstein's theor...
478. ...Marvel Adventures" #18 (cover-dated Dec. 1942). The character is a member of the Marvel / Shazam Family of heroes associated with the superhero Shazam / Captain Marvel and is one of the first female **spin**-offs of a major male superhero, and predates the introduction of Supergirl (also created by Otto Binder) by more than a decade. In "Shazam!" and related titles, Mary Marvel is the alter-ego of teenag...
479. ...rum is exhibited by the cosmic microwave background radiation. Hawking radiation is the hypothetical blackbody radiation emitted by black holes, at a temperature that depends on the mass, charge, and **spin** of the hole. If this prediction is correct, black holes will very gradually shrink and evaporate over time as they lose mass by the emission of photons and other particles. A black body radiates ener...
480. ...ld M. Foster and Wilhelm Cauer used for analysing linear circuits. Generalization of circuit theory based on scalar quantities to vectorial currents is a necessity for newly evolving circuits such as **spin** circuits. Generalized circuit variables consist of four components: scalar current and vector spin current in x, y, and z directions. The voltages and currents each become vector quantities with cond...
481. ...based on scalar quantities to vectorial currents is a necessity for newly evolving circuits such as spin circuits. Generalized circuit variables consist of four components: scalar current and vector **spin** current in x, y, and z directions. The voltages and currents each become vector quantities with conductance described as a 4x4 spin conductance matrix. Sasuke Uchiha Kishimoto conceived Sasuke as a r...
482. ...uit variables consist of four components: scalar current and vector spin current in x, y, and z directions. The voltages and currents each become vector quantities with conductance described as a 4x4 **spin** conductance matrix. Sasuke Uchiha Kishimoto conceived Sasuke as a rival of the series' title character Naruto Uzumaki. Despite Sasuke's dark character development later in the story, Kishimoto avoide...
483. ...ain a rogue ninja at the end of the series. Kishimoto wished to further explore Sasuke's role in the series after "Naruto" finale. He wanted to explain the connection between Sasuke and Sakura in the **spin**-off manga "" (2015), which focuses on their daughter, Sarada Uchiha. Despite their separation during Sasuke's mission, which draws him away from his village, the story explains the bond between the t...
484. ...g Sasuke's mission, which draws him away from his village, the story explains the bond between the three characters. Kishimoto focused on the final scene of the Uchiha family, which he regards as the **spin**-off's most important facet. Because Sasuke had few appearances in the "Naruto" films, Kishimoto decided to give him a bigger role in "" (2015), in which he teaches Naruto's firstborn child, Boruto Uz...
485. ...both Sakura and Naruto with gratitude. By the end of the manga, having briefly returned to the village, Sasuke is revealed to have married Sakura who is raising their daughter Sarada. In the "Naruto" **spin**-off manga, "Naruto: The Seventh Hokage and the Scarlet Spring", and the "Boruto: Naruto Next Generations" anime (2017), Sasuke has left Konohagakure sometime after Sarada's birth on a secret mission...
486. ...nohagakure by investigating a series of disappearances, which he solves with the help of Taka and a Konohagakure ninja named Sai. Sasuke is also the protagonist of manga artist Kenji Taira's "Naruto" **spin**-off, "Sasuke Uchiha's Sharingan Legend" (2014), in which he and Taka search for Itachi. According to Taira, Sasuke would be characterized as an "idiot." A new novel focused on Sasuke's life as an adu...
487. ...to build a maglev train on the Moon. Philtram Consortium's Cebu Monorail project will be initially built as a monorail system. In the future, it will be upgraded to a patented maglev technology named **Spin**-Induced Lenz's Law Magnetic Levitation Train. SwissRapide: The SwissRapide AG together with the SwissRapide Consortium was planning and developing the first maglev monorail system for intercity traff...
488. ...ch bit to write the data on it, although this approach has a scaling limit at around 90–130 nm. There are two 2nd generation techniques currently being developed: Thermal Assisted Switching (TAS) and **Spin**-transfer torque. Magnetic tunnel junctions are also used for sensing applications. Today they are commonly used for position sensors and current sensors in various automotive, industrial and consumer...
489. ...ude—is defined as where formula_2 is the electrical resistance in the anti-parallel state, whereas formula_3 is the resistance in the parallel state. The TMR effect was explained by Jullière with the **spin** polarizations of the ferromagnetic electrodes. The spin polarization "P" is calculated from the spin dependent density of states (DOS) formula_4 at the Fermi energy: formula_5 The spin-up electrons a...
490. ...stance in the anti-parallel state, whereas formula_3 is the resistance in the parallel state. The TMR effect was explained by Jullière with the spin polarizations of the ferromagnetic electrodes. The **spin** polarization "P" is calculated from the spin dependent density of states (DOS) formula_4 at the Fermi energy: formula_5 The spin-up electrons are those with spin orientation parallel to the external...
491. ...rmula_3 is the resistance in the parallel state. The TMR effect was explained by Jullière with the spin polarizations of the ferromagnetic electrodes. The spin polarization "P" is calculated from the **spin** dependent density of states (DOS) formula_4 at the Fermi energy: formula_5 The spin-up electrons are those with spin orientation parallel to the external magnetic field, whereas the spin-down electro...
492. ...lière with the spin polarizations of the ferromagnetic electrodes. The spin polarization "P" is calculated from the spin dependent density of states (DOS) formula_4 at the Fermi energy: formula_5 The **spin**-up electrons are those with spin orientation parallel to the external magnetic field, whereas the spin-down electrons have anti-parallel alignment with the external field. The relative resistance cha...
493. ...of the ferromagnetic electrodes. The spin polarization "P" is calculated from the spin dependent density of states (DOS) formula_4 at the Fermi energy: formula_5 The spin-up electrons are those with **spin** orientation parallel to the external magnetic field, whereas the spin-down electrons have anti-parallel alignment with the external field. The relative resistance change is now given by the spin pola...
494. ...ted from the spin dependent density of states (DOS) formula_4 at the Fermi energy: formula_5 The spin-up electrons are those with spin orientation parallel to the external magnetic field, whereas the **spin**-down electrons have anti-parallel alignment with the external field. The relative resistance change is now given by the spin polarizations of the two ferromagnets, "P" and "P": formula_6 If no voltag...
495. ...with spin orientation parallel to the external magnetic field, whereas the spin-down electrons have anti-parallel alignment with the external field. The relative resistance change is now given by the **spin** polarizations of the two ferromagnets, "P" and "P": formula_6 If no voltage is applied to the junction, electrons tunnel in both directions with equal rates. With a bias voltage "U", electrons tunnel...
496. ...voltage is applied to the junction, electrons tunnel in both directions with equal rates. With a bias voltage "U", electrons tunnel preferentially to the positive electrode. With the assumption that **spin** is conserved during tunneling, the current can be described in a two-current model. The total current is split in two partial currents, one for the spin-up electrons and another for the spin-down ele...
497. ...e positive electrode. With the assumption that spin is conserved during tunneling, the current can be described in a two-current model. The total current is split in two partial currents, one for the **spin**-up electrons and another for the spin-down electrons. These vary depending on the magnetic state of the junctions. There are two possibilities to obtain a defined anti-parallel state. First, one can...
498. ...ion that spin is conserved during tunneling, the current can be described in a two-current model. The total current is split in two partial currents, one for the spin-up electrons and another for the **spin**-down electrons. These vary depending on the magnetic state of the junctions. There are two possibilities to obtain a defined anti-parallel state. First, one can use ferromagnets with different coerci...
499. ...d with an antiferromagnet (exchange bias). In this case the magnetization of the uncoupled electrode remains "free". The TMR becomes infinite if "P" and "P" equal 1, i.e. if both electrodes have 100% **spin** polarization. In this case the magnetic tunnel junction becomes a switch, that switches magnetically between low resistance and infinite resistance. Materials that come into consideration for this ar...
500. ...that switches magnetically between low resistance and infinite resistance. Materials that come into consideration for this are called "ferromagnetic half-metals". Their conduction electrons are fully **spin**-polarized. This property is theoretically predicted for a number of materials (e.g. CrO, various Heusler alloys) but its experimental confirmation has been the subject of subtle debate. Nevertheless,...
501. ...ys) but its experimental confirmation has been the subject of subtle debate. Nevertheless, if one considers only those electrons that enter into transport, measurements by Bowen et al. of up to 99.6% **spin** polarization at the interface between LaSrMnO and SrTiO pragmatically amount to experimental proof of this property. The TMR decreases with both increasing temperature and increasing bias voltage. Bo...
502. ...electronic structures, which in turn reflects the achievement of structurally ordered junctions. Indeed, MgO filters the tunneling transmission of electrons with a particular symmetry that are fully **spin**-polarized within the current flowing across body-centered cubic Fe-based electrodes. Thus, in the MTJ's parallel (P) state of electrode magnetization, electrons of this symmetry dominate the junction...
503. ...the junction's potential landscape for electrons of a given symmetry. This was first achieved by examining how the electrons of a lanthanum strontium manganite half-metallic electrode with both full **spin** (P=+1 ) and symmetry polarization tunnel across an electrically biased SrTiO tunnel barrier. The conceptually simpler experiment of inserting an appropriate metal spacer at the junction interface dur...
504. ...rrier height for electrons of a given symmetry, and thus crafts the effective TMR ratio and its temperature dependence. This low barrier height in turn enables the high current densities required for **spin**-transfer torque, discussed hereafter. The effect of spin-transfer torque has been studied and applied widely in MTJs, where there is a tunnelling barrier sandwiched between a set of two ferromagnetic...
505. ...crafts the effective TMR ratio and its temperature dependence. This low barrier height in turn enables the high current densities required for spin-transfer torque, discussed hereafter. The effect of **spin**-transfer torque has been studied and applied widely in MTJs, where there is a tunnelling barrier sandwiched between a set of two ferromagnetic electrodes such that there is (free) magnetization of th...
506. ...rier sandwiched between a set of two ferromagnetic electrodes such that there is (free) magnetization of the right electrode, while assuming that the left electrode (with fixed magnetization) acts as **spin**-polarizer. This may then be pinned to some selecting transistor in a magnetoresistive random-access memory device, or connected to a preamplifier in a hard disk drive application. The spin-transfer t...
507. ...n) acts as spin-polarizer. This may then be pinned to some selecting transistor in a magnetoresistive random-access memory device, or connected to a preamplifier in a hard disk drive application. The **spin**-transfer torque vector, driven by the linear response voltage, can be computed from the expectation value of the torque operator: formula_7 where formula_8 is the gauge-invariant nonequilibrium densi...
508. ...nequilibrium density matrix for the steady-state transport, in the zero-temperature limit, in the linear-response regime, and the torque operator formula_9 is obtained from the time derivative of the **spin** operator: formula_10 Using the general form of a 1D tight-binding Hamiltonian: formula_11 where total magnetization (as macrospin) is along the unit vector formula_12 and the Pauli matrices propertie...
509. ...given by formula_14 formula_15 formula_16 it is then possible to first obtain an analytical expression for formula_9 (which can be expressed in compact form using formula_18, and the vector of Pauli **spin** matrices formula_19). The spin-transfer torque vector in general MTJs has two components: a parallel and perpendicular component: A parallel component: formula_20 And a perpendicular component: formu...
510. ...formula_16 it is then possible to first obtain an analytical expression for formula_9 (which can be expressed in compact form using formula_18, and the vector of Pauli spin matrices formula_19). The **spin**-transfer torque vector in general MTJs has two components: a parallel and perpendicular component: A parallel component: formula_20 And a perpendicular component: formula_21 In symmetric MTJs (made o...
511. ...allel and perpendicular component: A parallel component: formula_20 And a perpendicular component: formula_21 In symmetric MTJs (made of electrodes with the same geometry and exchange splitting), the **spin**-transfer torque vector has only one active component, as the perpendicular component disappears: formula_22. Therefore, only formula_23 vs. formula_24 needs to be plotted at the site of the right ele...
512. ...mixed-valence perovskite manganites in the 1950s by G. H. Jonker and J. H. van Santen, a first theoretical description in terms of the double-exchange mechanism was given early on. In this model, the **spin** orientation of adjacent Mn moments is associated with kinetic exchange of e-electrons. Consequently, alignment of the Mn spins by an external magnetic field causes higher conductivity. Relevant exper...
513. ...is a variety of theoretical and experimental work providing a deeper understanding of the relevant effects. One prominent model is the so-called "half-metallic ferromagnetic model", which is based on **spin**-polarized (SP) band structure calculations using the local spin-density approximation (LSDA) of the density functional theory (DFT) where separate calculations are carried out for spin-up and spin-do...
514. ...eper understanding of the relevant effects. One prominent model is the so-called "half-metallic ferromagnetic model", which is based on spin-polarized (SP) band structure calculations using the local **spin**-density approximation (LSDA) of the density functional theory (DFT) where separate calculations are carried out for spin-up and spin-down electrons. The half-metallic state is concurrent with the exi...
515. ...ch is based on spin-polarized (SP) band structure calculations using the local spin-density approximation (LSDA) of the density functional theory (DFT) where separate calculations are carried out for **spin**-up and spin-down electrons. The half-metallic state is concurrent with the existence of a metallic majority spin band and a nonmetallic minority spin band in the ferromagnetic phase. This model is no...
516. ...on spin-polarized (SP) band structure calculations using the local spin-density approximation (LSDA) of the density functional theory (DFT) where separate calculations are carried out for spin-up and **spin**-down electrons. The half-metallic state is concurrent with the existence of a metallic majority spin band and a nonmetallic minority spin band in the ferromagnetic phase. This model is not the same a...
517. ...of the density functional theory (DFT) where separate calculations are carried out for spin-up and spin-down electrons. The half-metallic state is concurrent with the existence of a metallic majority **spin** band and a nonmetallic minority spin band in the ferromagnetic phase. This model is not the same as the Stoner Model of itinerant ferromagnetism. In the Stoner model, a high density of states at the...
518. ...) where separate calculations are carried out for spin-up and spin-down electrons. The half-metallic state is concurrent with the existence of a metallic majority spin band and a nonmetallic minority **spin** band in the ferromagnetic phase. This model is not the same as the Stoner Model of itinerant ferromagnetism. In the Stoner model, a high density of states at the Fermi level makes the nonmagnetic sta...
519. ...ric phases like the pyrochlore . Microstructural effects in polycrystalline samples have also been investigated and it has been found that the magnetoresistance is often dominated by the tunneling of **spin**-polarized electrons between grains, resulting in the magnetoresistance having an intrinsic dependence on grain size. A fully quantitative understanding of the CMR effect remains elusive and it is sti...
520. ...logies, and utilized field induced writing. The 2nd generation is being developed through two approaches: thermal-assisted switching (TAS) which is currently being developed by Crocus Technology, and **spin**-transfer torque (STT) on which Crocus, Hynix, IBM, and several other companies are working. However, with storage density and capacity orders of magnitude smaller than an HDD, MRAM is useful in appli...
521. ...ctric, or some combination of these, is dependent upon one's reference frame (that is, one's velocity relative to the field). In ferromagnets, the movement creating the magnetic field is the electron **spin** (and to a lesser extent electron orbital angular momentum). In a current-carrying wire (electromagnets) the movement is due to electrons moving through the wire (whether the wire is straight or circu...
522. ...sen jumps. This effect is due to crystallographic defects such as dislocations. Magnetic hysteresis loops are not exclusive to materials with ferromagnetic ordering. Other magnetic orderings, such as **spin** glass ordering, also exhibit this phenomenon. The phenomenon of hysteresis in ferromagnetic materials is the result of two effects: rotation of magnetization and changes in size or number of magnetic...
523. ...rface is a direct consequence of the Pauli exclusion principle, which allows a maximum of one electron per quantum state. The study of the Fermi surfaces of materials is called fermiology. Consider a **spin**-less ideal Fermi gas of formula_1 particles. According to Fermi–Dirac statistics, the mean occupation number of a state with energy formula_2 is given by where Suppose we consider the limit formula_1...
524. ...d tend to form ground states where the condensation energy comes from opening a gap at the Fermi surface. Examples of such ground states are superconductors, ferromagnets, Jahn–Teller distortions and **spin** density waves. The state occupancy of fermions like electrons is governed by Fermi–Dirac statistics so at finite temperatures the Fermi surface is accordingly broadened. In principle all fermion ener...
525. ...as it measures the angular deviation from of both annihilation quanta. In this way it is possible to probe the electron momentum density of a solid and determine the Fermi surface. Furthermore, using **spin** polarized positrons, the momentum distribution for the two spin states in magnetized materials can be obtained. ACAR has many advantages and disadvantages compared to other experimental techniques: I...
526. ...uanta. In this way it is possible to probe the electron momentum density of a solid and determine the Fermi surface. Furthermore, using spin polarized positrons, the momentum distribution for the two **spin** states in magnetized materials can be obtained. ACAR has many advantages and disadvantages compared to other experimental techniques: It does not rely on UHV conditions, cryogenic temperatures, high...
527. ...ly high for antiparallel alignment. The magnetization direction can be controlled, for example, by applying an external magnetic field. The effect is based on the dependence of electron scattering on **spin** orientation. The main application of GMR is in magnetic field sensors, which are used to read data in hard disk drives, biosensors, microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) and other devices. GMR multil...
528. ...ed by the Nobel Prize in Physics awarded to Fert and Grünberg in 2007. The first mathematical model describing the effect of magnetization on the mobility of charge carriers in solids, related to the **spin** of those carriers, was reported in 1936. Experimental evidence of the potential enhancement of δ has been known since the 1960s. By the late 1980s, the anisotropic magnetoresistance had been well exp...
529. ...same discovery but the effect was less pronounced (3% compared to 50%) due to the samples being at room temperature rather than low temperature. The discoverers suggested that the effect is based on **spin**-dependent scattering of electrons in the superlattice, particularly on the dependence of resistance of the layers on the relative orientations of magnetization and electron spins. The theory of GMR f...
530. ...of electrons with spins directed up and down. Therefore, the density of electronic states at the Fermi level is also different for spins pointing in opposite directions. The Fermi level for majority-**spin** electrons is located within the "sp" band, and their transport is similar in ferromagnets and non-magnetic metals. For minority-spin electrons the "sp" and "d" bands are hybridized, and the Fermi lev...
531. ...pins pointing in opposite directions. The Fermi level for majority-spin electrons is located within the "sp" band, and their transport is similar in ferromagnets and non-magnetic metals. For minority-**spin** electrons the "sp" and "d" bands are hybridized, and the Fermi level lies within the "d" band. The hybridized "spd" band has a high density of states, which results in stronger scattering and thus sh...
532. ...e hybridized, and the Fermi level lies within the "d" band. The hybridized "spd" band has a high density of states, which results in stronger scattering and thus shorter mean free path λ for minority-**spin** than majority-spin electrons. In cobalt-doped nickel, the ratio λ/λ can reach 20. According to the Drude theory, the conductivity is proportional to λ, which ranges from several to several tens of na...
533. ...he Fermi level lies within the "d" band. The hybridized "spd" band has a high density of states, which results in stronger scattering and thus shorter mean free path λ for minority-spin than majority-**spin** electrons. In cobalt-doped nickel, the ratio λ/λ can reach 20. According to the Drude theory, the conductivity is proportional to λ, which ranges from several to several tens of nanometers in thin me...
534. ...can reach 20. According to the Drude theory, the conductivity is proportional to λ, which ranges from several to several tens of nanometers in thin metal films. Electrons "remember" the direction of **spin** within the so-called spin relaxation length (or spin diffusion length), which can significantly exceed the mean free path. Spin-dependent transport refers to the dependence of electrical conductivity...
535. ...o the Drude theory, the conductivity is proportional to λ, which ranges from several to several tens of nanometers in thin metal films. Electrons "remember" the direction of spin within the so-called **spin** relaxation length (or spin diffusion length), which can significantly exceed the mean free path. Spin-dependent transport refers to the dependence of electrical conductivity on the spin direction of...
536. ...ductivity is proportional to λ, which ranges from several to several tens of nanometers in thin metal films. Electrons "remember" the direction of spin within the so-called spin relaxation length (or **spin** diffusion length), which can significantly exceed the mean free path. Spin-dependent transport refers to the dependence of electrical conductivity on the spin direction of the charge carriers. In fer...
537. ...f nanometers in thin metal films. Electrons "remember" the direction of spin within the so-called spin relaxation length (or spin diffusion length), which can significantly exceed the mean free path. **Spin**-dependent transport refers to the dependence of electrical conductivity on the spin direction of the charge carriers. In ferromagnets, it occurs due to electron transitions between the unsplit 4"s" a...
538. ...the so-called spin relaxation length (or spin diffusion length), which can significantly exceed the mean free path. Spin-dependent transport refers to the dependence of electrical conductivity on the **spin** direction of the charge carriers. In ferromagnets, it occurs due to electron transitions between the unsplit 4"s" and split 3"d" bands. In some materials, the interaction between electrons and atoms...
539. ...applied magnetic field, whereas in the latter case, opposite directions alternate in the multilayer. Electrons traveling through the ferromagnetic superlattice interact with it much weaker when their **spin** directions are opposite to the magnetization of the lattice than when they are parallel to it. Such anisotropy is not observed for the antiferromagnetic superlattice; as a result, it scatters electro...
540. ...ten as where R is the resistance of ferromagnetic superlattice, ΔR is the GMR increment and θ is the angle between the magnetizations of adjacent layers. The GMR phenomenon can be described using two **spin**-related conductivity channels corresponding to the conduction of electrons, for which the resistance is minimum or maximum. The relation between them is often defined in terms of the coefficient of t...
541. ...lated conductivity channels corresponding to the conduction of electrons, for which the resistance is minimum or maximum. The relation between them is often defined in terms of the coefficient of the **spin** anisotropy β. This coefficient can be defined using the minimum and maximum of the specific electrical resistivity ρ for the spin-polarized current in the form where "ρ" is the average resistivity of...
542. ...tion between them is often defined in terms of the coefficient of the spin anisotropy β. This coefficient can be defined using the minimum and maximum of the specific electrical resistivity ρ for the **spin**-polarized current in the form where "ρ" is the average resistivity of the ferromagnet. If scattering of charge carriers at the interface between the ferromagnetic and non-magnetic metal is small, and...
543. ...el in which the total resistance of the sample is a combination of the resistances of the magnetic and non-magnetic layers. In this model, there are two conduction channels for electrons with various **spin** directions relative to the magnetization of the layers. Therefore, the equivalent circuit of the GMR structure consists of two parallel connections corresponding to each of the channels. In this case...
544. ...is the resistivity of non-magnetic metal. This expression is applicable for both CIP and CPP structures. Under the condition formula_6 this relationship can be simplified using the coefficient of the **spin** asymmetry Such a device, with resistance depending on the orientation of electron spin, is called a spin valve. It is "open", if the magnetizations of its layers are parallel, and "closed" otherwise....
545. ...d CPP structures. Under the condition formula_6 this relationship can be simplified using the coefficient of the spin asymmetry Such a device, with resistance depending on the orientation of electron **spin**, is called a spin valve. It is "open", if the magnetizations of its layers are parallel, and "closed" otherwise. In 1993, Thierry Valet and Albert Fert presented a model for the giant magnetoresistan...
546. ...Under the condition formula_6 this relationship can be simplified using the coefficient of the spin asymmetry Such a device, with resistance depending on the orientation of electron spin, is called a **spin** valve. It is "open", if the magnetizations of its layers are parallel, and "closed" otherwise. In 1993, Thierry Valet and Albert Fert presented a model for the giant magnetoresistance in the CPP geom...
547. ...-magnetic layer is sufficiently thin then in the external field E the amendments to the electrochemical potential and the field inside the sample will take the form where "ℓ" is the average length of **spin** relaxation, and the z coordinate is measured from the boundary between the magnetic and non-magnetic layers (z < 0 corresponds to the ferromagnetic). Thus electrons with a larger chemical potential w...
548. ...gnetic layers (z < 0 corresponds to the ferromagnetic). Thus electrons with a larger chemical potential will accumulate at the boundary of the ferromagnet. This can be represented by the potential of **spin** accumulation "V" or by the so-called interface resistance (inherent to the boundary between a ferromagnet and non-magnetic material) where "j" is current density in the sample, "ℓ" and "ℓ" are the le...
549. ...n "V" or by the so-called interface resistance (inherent to the boundary between a ferromagnet and non-magnetic material) where "j" is current density in the sample, "ℓ" and "ℓ" are the length of the **spin** relaxation in a non-magnetic and magnetic materials, respectively. Many combinations of materials exhibit GMR, and the most common are the following: The magnetoresistance depends on many parameters...
550. ...rom 40 to 20% in the CIP geometry, and from 100 to 55% in the CPP geometry. The non-magnetic layers can be non-metallic. For example, δ up to 40% was demonstrated for organic layers at 11 K. Graphene **spin** valves of various designs exhibited δ of about 12% at 7 K and 10% at 300 K, far below the theoretical limit of 109%. The GMR effect can be enhanced by spin filters that select electrons with a certai...
551. ...trated for organic layers at 11 K. Graphene spin valves of various designs exhibited δ of about 12% at 7 K and 10% at 300 K, far below the theoretical limit of 109%. The GMR effect can be enhanced by **spin** filters that select electrons with a certain spin orientation; they are made of metals such as cobalt. For a filter of thickness "t" the change in conductivity ΔG can be expressed as where ΔG is chan...
552. ...alves of various designs exhibited δ of about 12% at 7 K and 10% at 300 K, far below the theoretical limit of 109%. The GMR effect can be enhanced by spin filters that select electrons with a certain **spin** orientation; they are made of metals such as cobalt. For a filter of thickness "t" the change in conductivity ΔG can be expressed as where ΔG is change in the conductivity of the spin valve without t...
553. ...with a certain spin orientation; they are made of metals such as cobalt. For a filter of thickness "t" the change in conductivity ΔG can be expressed as where ΔG is change in the conductivity of the **spin** valve without the filter, ΔG is the maximum increase in conductivity with the filter, and β is a parameter of the filter material. GMR is often classed by the type of devices which exhibit the effect...
554. ...ore, the sensitivity of the devices was very low. The use of permalloy for the magnetic and silver for the non-magnetic layers lowered the saturation field to tens of oersteds. In the most successful **spin** valves the GMR effect originates from exchange bias. They comprise a sensitive layer, "fixed" layer and an antiferromagnetic layer. The last layer freezes the magnetization direction in the "fixed" l...
555. ...sistance of the structure. The valve reacts to the external magnetic field by changing the magnetization direction in the sensitive layer relatively to the "fixed" layer. The main difference of these **spin** valves from other multilayer GMR devices is the monotonic dependence of the amplitude of the effect on the thickness "d" of the non-magnetic layers: where δ is a normalization constant, λ is the mean...
556. ...are composed of different materials, such as NiCr/Cu/Co/Cu. The resistivity for electrons with opposite spins can be written as formula_14; it has different values, i.e. different coefficients β, for **spin**-up and spin-down electrons. If the NiCr layer is not too thin, its contribution may exceed that of the Co layer, resulting in inverse GMR. Note that the GMR inversion depends on the sign of the "prod...
557. ...of different materials, such as NiCr/Cu/Co/Cu. The resistivity for electrons with opposite spins can be written as formula_14; it has different values, i.e. different coefficients β, for spin-up and **spin**-down electrons. If the NiCr layer is not too thin, its contribution may exceed that of the Co layer, resulting in inverse GMR. Note that the GMR inversion depends on the sign of the "product" of the...
558. ...el, but not for doping of nickel with iron, cobalt, manganese, gold or copper. GMR in granular alloys of ferromagnetic and non-magnetic metals was discovered in 1992 and subsequently explained by the **spin**-dependent scattering of charge carriers at the surface and in the bulk of the grains. The grains form ferromagnetic clusters about 10 nm in diameter embedded in a non-magnetic metal, forming a kind o...
559. ...he antiferromagnetic layer. The fixed layer is made of a magnetic material such as cobalt. Such a sensor has an asymmetric hysteresis loop owing to the presence of the magnetically hard, fixed layer. **Spin** valves may exhibit anisotropic magnetoresistance, which leads to an asymmetry in the sensitivity curve. In hard disk drives (HDDs), information is encoded using magnetic domains, and a change in the...
560. ...agnetizations in the sensing and fixed layers, the electrical resistance of the sensor decreases, and vice versa. A cell of magnetoresistive random-access memory (MRAM) has a structure similar to the **spin**-valve sensor. The value of the stored bits can be encoded via the magnetization direction in the sensor layer; it is read by measuring the resistance of the structure. The advantages of this technolo...
561. ...d upon reading. In another scheme, the information is kept in the fixed layer, which requires higher recording currents compared to reading currents. Tunnel magnetoresistance (TMR) is an extension of **spin**-valve GMR, in which the electrons travel with their spins oriented perpendicularly to the layers across a thin insulating tunnel barrier (replacing the non-ferromagnetic spacer). This allows to achie...
562. ...s in science and educational markets marketed by Creative Gifts Inc. and Fascination Toys & Gifts. The "Levitron" top device is a commercial toy under this brand that displays the phenomenon known as **spin**-stabilized magnetic levitation. This method, with moving permanent magnets, is quite distinct from other versions which use changing electromagnetic fields, levitating various items such as a rotatin...
563. ...econd (1500–3000 rpm). If too slow, the top falls over and slides off sideways; if too fast it does not orient itself to follow magnetic flux as it moves, and slides off. Since it can be difficult to **spin** the top fast enough by hand, Creative Gifts produced a battery-powered, hand held device to spin the top with an electric motor. Next, the plate is lifted by hand until, if conditions are right, the...
564. ...es not orient itself to follow magnetic flux as it moves, and slides off. Since it can be difficult to spin the top fast enough by hand, Creative Gifts produced a battery-powered, hand held device to **spin** the top with an electric motor. Next, the plate is lifted by hand until, if conditions are right, the top rises above it to an equilibrium point. The top must also be weighted with washers of various...
565. ...out an additional magnetic pulse. The additional force nudges the spinning top enough to maintain a constant speed. With a constant speed, and with the Levitron perfectly level, the Levitron top can **spin** for longer periods of time. The first spin-stabilized permanent magnet levitation device was invented (c 1976) and patented (1983) by inventor Roy Harrigan, of Vermont. In the mid-1990s, Seattle entr...
566. ...tional force nudges the spinning top enough to maintain a constant speed. With a constant speed, and with the Levitron perfectly level, the Levitron top can spin for longer periods of time. The first **spin**-stabilized permanent magnet levitation device was invented (c 1976) and patented (1983) by inventor Roy Harrigan, of Vermont. In the mid-1990s, Seattle entrepreneur Bill Hones, who was himself explor...
567. ...National Laboratory, analyzed the physics of the prototype, and then filed for an "improvement patent". In 1984, independent of Roy Harrigan, inventor Joseph Chieffo, of Pennsylvania, also discovered **spin**-stabilized magnetic levitation. Chieffo then developed his own spin-stabilized magnetic levitation device and attempted to obtain a patent thereon. Employing an attorney to conduct a U.S. Patent and...
568. ...filed for an "improvement patent". In 1984, independent of Roy Harrigan, inventor Joseph Chieffo, of Pennsylvania, also discovered spin-stabilized magnetic levitation. Chieffo then developed his own **spin**-stabilized magnetic levitation device and attempted to obtain a patent thereon. Employing an attorney to conduct a U.S. Patent and Trademark records search, Chieffo was informed of the existence of t...
569. ...face, not unlike the base magnet of Hones' later-patented device, the now-popular Physics toy known as the Levitron. In 2012 and 2014, Levitrons were operated at an angle of 45° as well as with their **spin** axis horizontal. This inclined and horizontal operation was obtained with the help of additional magnetic "V"s. The horizontal Levitron is particularly stable, which gives it educational potential. I...
570. ...nsity of states (number of energy states, per energy per volume) of a non-interacting electron gas is given by: where formula_12 is the energy of a given electron. This formula takes into account the **spin** degeneracy but does not consider a possible energy shift due to the bottom of the conduction band. For 2D the density of states is constant and for 1D is inversely proportional to the square root of...
571. ...This pressure is called the electron degeneracy pressure and does not come from repulsion or motion of the electrons but from the restriction that no more than two electrons (due to the two values of **spin**) can occupy the same energy level. This pressure defines the compressibility or bulk modulus of the metal This expression gives the right order of magnitude for the bulk modulus for alkali metals and...
572. ...magnetic field, and a paramagnetic contribution (Pauli's paramagnetism). The latter contribution is three times larger in absolute value than the diamagnetic contribution and comes from the electron **spin**, an intrinsic quantum degree of freedom that can take two discrete values and it is associated to the electron magnetic moment. One open problem in solid-state physics before the arrival of quantum m...
573. ...ntials have the same characteristic energies, apart from a possible zero-energy ground state. Consider a one-dimensional, non-relativistic particle with a two state internal degree of freedom called "**spin**". (This is not quite the usual notion of spin encountered in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics, because "real" spin applies only to particles in three-dimensional space.) Let "b" and its Hermitian ad...
574. ...apart from a possible zero-energy ground state. Consider a one-dimensional, non-relativistic particle with a two state internal degree of freedom called "spin". (This is not quite the usual notion of **spin** encountered in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics, because "real" spin applies only to particles in three-dimensional space.) Let "b" and its Hermitian adjoint "b" signify operators which transform a...
575. ...onal, non-relativistic particle with a two state internal degree of freedom called "spin". (This is not quite the usual notion of spin encountered in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics, because "real" **spin** applies only to particles in three-dimensional space.) Let "b" and its Hermitian adjoint "b" signify operators which transform a "spin up" particle into a "spin down" particle and vice versa, respect...
576. ...encountered in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics, because "real" spin applies only to particles in three-dimensional space.) Let "b" and its Hermitian adjoint "b" signify operators which transform a "**spin** up" particle into a "spin down" particle and vice versa, respectively. Furthermore, take "b" and "b" to be normalized such that the anticommutator {"b","b"} equals 1, and take that "b" equals 0. Let...
577. ...stic quantum mechanics, because "real" spin applies only to particles in three-dimensional space.) Let "b" and its Hermitian adjoint "b" signify operators which transform a "spin up" particle into a "**spin** down" particle and vice versa, respectively. Furthermore, take "b" and "b" to be normalized such that the anticommutator {"b","b"} equals 1, and take that "b" equals 0. Let "p" represent the momentum...
578. ...are self-adjoint. Let the Hamiltonian be where "W"' signifies the derivative of "W". Also note that {"Q","Q"}=0. Under these circumstances, the above system is a toy model of "N"=2 supersymmetry. The **spin** down and spin up states are often referred to as the "bosonic" and "fermionic" states, respectively, in an analogy to quantum field theory. With these definitions, "Q" and "Q" map "bosonic" states in...
579. ...nt. Let the Hamiltonian be where "W"' signifies the derivative of "W". Also note that {"Q","Q"}=0. Under these circumstances, the above system is a toy model of "N"=2 supersymmetry. The spin down and **spin** up states are often referred to as the "bosonic" and "fermionic" states, respectively, in an analogy to quantum field theory. With these definitions, "Q" and "Q" map "bosonic" states into "fermionic"...
580. ...il to overload them while the others escape. Days later, the Hawkins family reluctantly approve of Virgil becoming a superhero, with Sharon providing him with an updated suit. As the media attempt to **spin** a story about the Bang Babies attacking the government, Virgil hijacks the signals and tells the truth of what happened. Static's powers allow him to control electromagnetic phenomena, in particular...
581. ...particle. In spirit of a Wien filter, a combined magnetic, electric quadrupole is achromatic around a given velocity. Bohr and Pauli claim that this lens leads to aberration when applied to ions with **spin** (in the sense of chromatic aberration), but not when applied to electrons which also have a spin. See Stern–Gerlach experiment. A magnetic field can also be used to focus charged particles. The Loren...
582. ...nd a given velocity. Bohr and Pauli claim that this lens leads to aberration when applied to ions with spin (in the sense of chromatic aberration), but not when applied to electrons which also have a **spin**. See Stern–Gerlach experiment. A magnetic field can also be used to focus charged particles. The Lorentz force acting on the electron is perpendicular to both the direction of motion and to the direc...
583. ...a lattice; the lattice is usually taken to be a two-dimensional rectangular Euclidean lattice, but is often generalized to other dimensions and lattice structures. Originally, Domb suggested that the **spin** takes one of formula_1 possible values , distributed uniformly about the circle, at angles where formula_3 and that the interaction Hamiltonian is given by with the sum running over the nearest neigh...
584. ...lysis. This generalized Potts model consists of 'spins' that each may take on formula_1 states: formula_17 (with no particular ordering). The Hamiltonian is, where formula_19 is the energetic cost of **spin** formula_20 being in state formula_21 while spin formula_22 is in state formula_23, and formula_24 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in state formula_21. Note: formula_27. This model rese...
585. ...'spins' that each may take on formula_1 states: formula_17 (with no particular ordering). The Hamiltonian is, where formula_19 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in state formula_21 while **spin** formula_22 is in state formula_23, and formula_24 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in state formula_21. Note: formula_27. This model resembles the Sherrington-Kirkpatrick model in that...
586. ...rdering). The Hamiltonian is, where formula_19 is the energetic cost of spin formula_20 being in state formula_21 while spin formula_22 is in state formula_23, and formula_24 is the energetic cost of **spin** formula_20 being in state formula_21. Note: formula_27. This model resembles the Sherrington-Kirkpatrick model in that couplings can be heterogeneous and non-local. There is no explicit lattice struc...
587. ...model at small formula_1, and led to the rigorous proof of the critical temperature of the model. At the level of the partition function formula_36, the relation amounts to transforming the sum over **spin** configurations formula_37 into a sum over edge configurations formula_38 i.e. sets of nearest neighbor pairs of the same color. The transformation is done using the identity  This leads to rewriting...
588. ...e of the random cluster formulation is that formula_1 can be an arbitrary complex number, rather than a natural integer. Alternatively, instead of FK clusters, the model can be formulated in terms of **spin** clusters, using the identity  A spin cluster is the union of neighbouring FK clusters with the same color: two neighbouring spin clusters have different colors, while two neighbouring FK clusters are...
589. ...s that formula_1 can be an arbitrary complex number, rather than a natural integer. Alternatively, instead of FK clusters, the model can be formulated in terms of spin clusters, using the identity  A **spin** cluster is the union of neighbouring FK clusters with the same color: two neighbouring spin clusters have different colors, while two neighbouring FK clusters are colored independently. The one dimen...
590. ...ively, instead of FK clusters, the model can be formulated in terms of spin clusters, using the identity  A spin cluster is the union of neighbouring FK clusters with the same color: two neighbouring **spin** clusters have different colors, while two neighbouring FK clusters are colored independently. The one dimensional Potts model may be expressed in terms of a subshift of finite type, and thus gains ac...
591. ...ing eigenvalue of the transfer operator of the solution. The simplest model is the model where there is no interaction at all, and so "V" = "c" and "H" = "c" (with "c" constant and independent of any **spin** configuration). The partition function becomes If all states are allowed, that is, the underlying set of states is given by a full shift, then the sum may be trivially evaluated as If neighboring spi...
592. ...en as where card is the cardinality or count of a set, and Fix is the set of fixed points of the iterated shift function: The "q" × "q" matrix "A" is the adjacency matrix specifying which neighboring **spin** values are allowed. The simplest case of the interacting model is the Ising model, where the spin can only take on one of two values, "s" ∈ and only nearest neighbor spins interact. The interaction p...
593. ...terated shift function: The "q" × "q" matrix "A" is the adjacency matrix specifying which neighboring spin values are allowed. The simplest case of the interacting model is the Ising model, where the **spin** can only take on one of two values, "s" ∈ and only nearest neighbor spins interact. The interaction potential is given by This potential can be captured in a 2 × 2 matrix with matrix elements with th...
594. ...rimagnets, have two sublattices with opposing moments, but now the moments are equal in magnitude. If the moments are exactly opposed, the magnet has no remanence. However, the moments can be tilted (**spin** canting), resulting in a moment nearly at right angles to the moments of the sublattices. Hematite has this kind of magnetism. Magnetic remanence is often identified with a particular kind of remanen...
595. ...feated by Kho and subsequently absorbed by Brother Eye, who states that he may prove useful at a later date. Amazing-Man appears in "", voiced by Ike Amadi. RKKY interaction In the physical theory of **spin** glass magnetization, the Ruderman–Kittel–Kasuya–Yosida (RKKY) interaction models the coupling of nuclear magnetic moments or localized inner d- or f-shell electron spins through conduction electrons....
596. ...a, the physicists who first proposed and developed the model.  Malvin Ruderman and Charles Kittel of the University of California, Berkeley first proposed the model to explain unusually broad nuclear **spin** resonance lines in natural metallic silver. The theory is an indirect exchange coupling: the hyperfine interaction couples the nuclear spin of one atom to a conduction electron also coupled to the sp...
597. ...first proposed the model to explain unusually broad nuclear spin resonance lines in natural metallic silver. The theory is an indirect exchange coupling: the hyperfine interaction couples the nuclear **spin** of one atom to a conduction electron also coupled to the spin of a different nucleus. The assumption of hyperfine interaction turns out to be unnecessary, and can be replaced equally well with the ex...
598. ...in resonance lines in natural metallic silver. The theory is an indirect exchange coupling: the hyperfine interaction couples the nuclear spin of one atom to a conduction electron also coupled to the **spin** of a different nucleus. The assumption of hyperfine interaction turns out to be unnecessary, and can be replaced equally well with the exchange interaction.  The simplest treatment assumes a Bloch wa...
599. ...ems; the resulting correlation energy, computed with perturbation theory, takes the following form: formula_1 where represents the Hamiltonian, is the distance between the nuclei and , is the nuclear **spin** of atom , is a matrix element that represents the strength of the hyperfine interaction, is the effective mass of the electrons in the crystal, and is the Fermi momentum. Intuitively, we may picture...
600. ...upling could occur with localized inner d-electron spins instead of nuclei. This theory was expanded more completely by Kei Yosida of the UC Berkeley, to give a Hamiltonian that describes (d-electron **spin**)–(d-electron spin), (nuclear spin)–(nuclear spin), and (d-electron spin)–(nuclear spin) interactions. J.H. Van Vleck clarified some subtleties of the theory, particularly the relationship between the...
601. ...with localized inner d-electron spins instead of nuclei. This theory was expanded more completely by Kei Yosida of the UC Berkeley, to give a Hamiltonian that describes (d-electron spin)–(d-electron **spin**), (nuclear spin)–(nuclear spin), and (d-electron spin)–(nuclear spin) interactions. J.H. Van Vleck clarified some subtleties of the theory, particularly the relationship between the first- and second...
602. ...inner d-electron spins instead of nuclei. This theory was expanded more completely by Kei Yosida of the UC Berkeley, to give a Hamiltonian that describes (d-electron spin)–(d-electron spin), (nuclear **spin**)–(nuclear spin), and (d-electron spin)–(nuclear spin) interactions. J.H. Van Vleck clarified some subtleties of the theory, particularly the relationship between the first- and second-order perturbat...
603. ...n spins instead of nuclei. This theory was expanded more completely by Kei Yosida of the UC Berkeley, to give a Hamiltonian that describes (d-electron spin)–(d-electron spin), (nuclear spin)–(nuclear **spin**), and (d-electron spin)–(nuclear spin) interactions. J.H. Van Vleck clarified some subtleties of the theory, particularly the relationship between the first- and second-order perturbative contributio...
604. ...ei. This theory was expanded more completely by Kei Yosida of the UC Berkeley, to give a Hamiltonian that describes (d-electron spin)–(d-electron spin), (nuclear spin)–(nuclear spin), and (d-electron **spin**)–(nuclear spin) interactions. J.H. Van Vleck clarified some subtleties of the theory, particularly the relationship between the first- and second-order perturbative contributions. Perhaps the most si...
605. ...was expanded more completely by Kei Yosida of the UC Berkeley, to give a Hamiltonian that describes (d-electron spin)–(d-electron spin), (nuclear spin)–(nuclear spin), and (d-electron spin)–(nuclear **spin**) interactions. J.H. Van Vleck clarified some subtleties of the theory, particularly the relationship between the first- and second-order perturbative contributions. Perhaps the most significant appli...
606. ...chemical reactions poorly, because reactive intermediates may be excited, or be the minor, alternate structures in a chemical equilibrium with the initial reactant. Magnetic polarizability defined by **spin** interactions of nucleons is an important parameter of deuterons and hadrons. In particular, measurement of tensor polarizabilities of nucleons yields important information about spin-dependent nuclea...
607. ...ility defined by spin interactions of nucleons is an important parameter of deuterons and hadrons. In particular, measurement of tensor polarizabilities of nucleons yields important information about **spin**-dependent nuclear forces. The method of spin amplitudes uses quantum mechanics formalism to more easily describe spin dynamics. Vector and tensor polarization of particle/nuclei with spin are specifi...
608. ...s is an important parameter of deuterons and hadrons. In particular, measurement of tensor polarizabilities of nucleons yields important information about spin-dependent nuclear forces. The method of **spin** amplitudes uses quantum mechanics formalism to more easily describe spin dynamics. Vector and tensor polarization of particle/nuclei with spin are specified by the unit polarization vector formula_4...
609. ...urement of tensor polarizabilities of nucleons yields important information about spin-dependent nuclear forces. The method of spin amplitudes uses quantum mechanics formalism to more easily describe **spin** dynamics. Vector and tensor polarization of particle/nuclei with spin are specified by the unit polarization vector formula_4 and the polarization tensor "P". Additional tensors composed of products...
610. ...ation about spin-dependent nuclear forces. The method of spin amplitudes uses quantum mechanics formalism to more easily describe spin dynamics. Vector and tensor polarization of particle/nuclei with **spin** are specified by the unit polarization vector formula_4 and the polarization tensor "P". Additional tensors composed of products of three or more spin matrices are needed only for the exhaustive desc...
611. ...and tensor polarization of particle/nuclei with spin are specified by the unit polarization vector formula_4 and the polarization tensor "P". Additional tensors composed of products of three or more **spin** matrices are needed only for the exhaustive description of polarization of particles/nuclei with spin . Electric arc An electric arc (or arc discharge) is an electrical breakdown of a gas that produc...
612. ...rmula_4 and the polarization tensor "P". Additional tensors composed of products of three or more spin matrices are needed only for the exhaustive description of polarization of particles/nuclei with **spin** . Electric arc An electric arc (or arc discharge) is an electrical breakdown of a gas that produces a prolonged electrical discharge. The current through a normally nonconductive medium such as air p...
613. ...lybdenum purple bronze LiMoO diverges with decreasing temperature, reaching a value five orders of magnitude larger than that found in conventional metals obeying the Wiedemann–Franz law. This due to **spin**-charge separation and it behaving as a Luttinger liquid. A Berkeley-led study in 2016 by S. Lee "et al." also found a large violation of the Wiedemann–Franz law near the insulator-metal transition in...
614. ...gnetic couplings between pairs of spins or magnetic moments are present, with the type of interaction depending on the separation distance of the spins. In that case commensurability, such as helical **spin** arrangements may result, as had been discussed originally, especially, by A. Yoshimori, T. A. Kaplan, R. J. Elliott, and others, starting in 1959, to describe experimental findings on rare-earth meta...
615. ...d been discussed originally, especially, by A. Yoshimori, T. A. Kaplan, R. J. Elliott, and others, starting in 1959, to describe experimental findings on rare-earth metals. A renewed interest in such **spin** systems with frustrated or competing interactions arose about two decades later, beginning in the 1970s, in the context of spin glasses and spatially modulated magnetic superstructures. In spin glass...
616. ...experimental findings on rare-earth metals. A renewed interest in such spin systems with frustrated or competing interactions arose about two decades later, beginning in the 1970s, in the context of **spin** glasses and spatially modulated magnetic superstructures. In spin glasses, frustration is augmented by stochastic disorder in the interactions, as may occur experimentally in non-stoichiometric magne...
617. ...such spin systems with frustrated or competing interactions arose about two decades later, beginning in the 1970s, in the context of spin glasses and spatially modulated magnetic superstructures. In **spin** glasses, frustration is augmented by stochastic disorder in the interactions, as may occur experimentally in non-stoichiometric magnetic alloys. Carefully analyzed spin models with frustration includ...
618. ...d magnetic superstructures. In spin glasses, frustration is augmented by stochastic disorder in the interactions, as may occur experimentally in non-stoichiometric magnetic alloys. Carefully analyzed **spin** models with frustration include the Sherrington–Kirkpatrick model, describing spin glasses, and the ANNNI model, describing commensurability magnetic superstructures. Recently, the concept of frustra...
619. ...disorder in the interactions, as may occur experimentally in non-stoichiometric magnetic alloys. Carefully analyzed spin models with frustration include the Sherrington–Kirkpatrick model, describing **spin** glasses, and the ANNNI model, describing commensurability magnetic superstructures. Recently, the concept of frustration has been used in brain network analysis to identify the non-trivial assemblage...
620. ...ngement of spins. A simple 2D example is shown in Figure 1. Three magnetic ions reside on the corners of a triangle with antiferromagnetic interactions between them; the energy is minimized when each **spin** is aligned opposite to neighbors. Once the first two spins align antiparallel, the third one is "frustrated" because its two possible orientations, up and down, give the same energy. The third spin c...
621. ...h spin is aligned opposite to neighbors. Once the first two spins align antiparallel, the third one is "frustrated" because its two possible orientations, up and down, give the same energy. The third **spin** cannot simultaneously minimize its interactions with both of the other two. Since this effect occurs for each spin, the ground state is sixfold degenerate. Only the two states where all spins are up...
622. ...because its two possible orientations, up and down, give the same energy. The third spin cannot simultaneously minimize its interactions with both of the other two. Since this effect occurs for each **spin**, the ground state is sixfold degenerate. Only the two states where all spins are up or down have more energy. Similarly in three dimensions, four spins arranged in a tetrahedron (Figure 2) may experi...
623. ...sible to have all interactions favourable, and the system is frustrated. Geometrical frustration is also possible if the spins are arranged in a non-collinear way. If we consider a tetrahedron with a **spin** on each vertex pointing along the "easy axis" (that is, directly towards or away from the centre of the tetrahedron), then it is possible to arrange the four spins so that there is no net spin (Figur...
624. ...with a spin on each vertex pointing along the "easy axis" (that is, directly towards or away from the centre of the tetrahedron), then it is possible to arrange the four spins so that there is no net **spin** (Figure 3). This is exactly equivalent to having an antiferromagnetic interaction between each pair of spins, so in this case there is no geometrical frustration. With these axes, geometric frustrati...
625. ...follows: Here the numbers "ε" and "ε" are arbitrary signs, i.e. +1 or −1, so that the modified structure may look totally random. Although most previous and current research on frustration focuses on **spin** systems, the phenomenon was first studied in ordinary ice. In 1936 Giauque and Stout published "The Entropy of Water and the Third Law of Thermodynamics. Heat Capacity of Ice from 15 K to 273 K", rep...
626. ...arising from closed loops on the Wurtzite lattice, the estimate was subsequently shown to be of excellent accuracy. A mathematically analogous situation to the degeneracy in water ice is found in the **spin** ices. A common spin ice structure is shown in Figure 6 in the cubic pyrochlore structure with one magnetic atom or ion residing on each of the four corners. Due to the strong crystal field in the mat...
627. ...loops on the Wurtzite lattice, the estimate was subsequently shown to be of excellent accuracy. A mathematically analogous situation to the degeneracy in water ice is found in the spin ices. A common **spin** ice structure is shown in Figure 6 in the cubic pyrochlore structure with one magnetic atom or ion residing on each of the four corners. Due to the strong crystal field in the material, each of the m...
628. ...ch coincide with the lines connecting each tetrahedral vertex to the center. Every tetrahedral cell must have two spins pointing in and two pointing out in order to minimize the energy. Currently the **spin** ice model has been approximately realized by real materials, most notably the rare earth pyrochlores HoTiO, DyTiO, and HoSnO. These materials all show nonzero residual entropy at low temperature. The...
629. ...ice model has been approximately realized by real materials, most notably the rare earth pyrochlores HoTiO, DyTiO, and HoSnO. These materials all show nonzero residual entropy at low temperature. The **spin** ice model is only one subdivision of frustrated systems. The word frustration was initially introduced to describe a system's inability to simultaneously minimize the competing interaction energy bet...
630. ...ntered cubic (fcc), hexagonal-close-packed, tetrahedron, pyrochlore and kagome lattices with antiferromagnetic interaction. So frustration is divided into two categories: the first corresponds to the **spin** glass, which has both disorder in structure and frustration in spin; the second is the geometrical frustration with an ordered lattice structure and frustration of spin. The frustration of a spin gla...
631. ...and kagome lattices with antiferromagnetic interaction. So frustration is divided into two categories: the first corresponds to the spin glass, which has both disorder in structure and frustration in **spin**; the second is the geometrical frustration with an ordered lattice structure and frustration of spin. The frustration of a spin glass is understood within the framework of the RKKY model, in which th...
632. ...: the first corresponds to the spin glass, which has both disorder in structure and frustration in spin; the second is the geometrical frustration with an ordered lattice structure and frustration of **spin**. The frustration of a spin glass is understood within the framework of the RKKY model, in which the interaction property, either ferromagnetic or anti-ferromagnetic, is dependent on the distance of t...
633. ...the spin glass, which has both disorder in structure and frustration in spin; the second is the geometrical frustration with an ordered lattice structure and frustration of spin. The frustration of a **spin** glass is understood within the framework of the RKKY model, in which the interaction property, either ferromagnetic or anti-ferromagnetic, is dependent on the distance of the two magnetic ions. Due t...
634. ...e framework of the RKKY model, in which the interaction property, either ferromagnetic or anti-ferromagnetic, is dependent on the distance of the two magnetic ions. Due to the lattice disorder in the **spin** glass, one spin of interest and its nearest neighbors could be at different distances and have a different interaction property, which thus leads to different preferred alignment of the spin. With th...
635. ...he RKKY model, in which the interaction property, either ferromagnetic or anti-ferromagnetic, is dependent on the distance of the two magnetic ions. Due to the lattice disorder in the spin glass, one **spin** of interest and its nearest neighbors could be at different distances and have a different interaction property, which thus leads to different preferred alignment of the spin. With the help of lithog...
636. ...r in the spin glass, one spin of interest and its nearest neighbors could be at different distances and have a different interaction property, which thus leads to different preferred alignment of the **spin**. With the help of lithography techniques, it is possible to fabricate sub-micrometer size magnetic islands whose geometric arrangement reproduces the frustration found in naturally occurring spin ice...
637. ...the spin. With the help of lithography techniques, it is possible to fabricate sub-micrometer size magnetic islands whose geometric arrangement reproduces the frustration found in naturally occurring **spin** ice materials. Recently R. F. Wang et al. reported the discovery of an artificial geometrically frustrated magnet composed of arrays of lithographically fabricated single-domain ferromagnetic islands...
638. ...ficial geometrically frustrated magnet composed of arrays of lithographically fabricated single-domain ferromagnetic islands. These islands are manually arranged to create a two-dimensional analog to **spin** ice. The magnetic moments of the ordered ‘spin’ islands were imaged with magnetic force microscopy (MFM) and then the local accommodation of frustration was thoroughly studied. In their previous work...
639. ...of arrays of lithographically fabricated single-domain ferromagnetic islands. These islands are manually arranged to create a two-dimensional analog to spin ice. The magnetic moments of the ordered ‘**spin**’ islands were imaged with magnetic force microscopy (MFM) and then the local accommodation of frustration was thoroughly studied. In their previous work on a square lattice of frustrated magnets, the...
640. ...thoroughly studied. In their previous work on a square lattice of frustrated magnets, they observed both ice-like short-range correlations and the absence of long-range correlations, just like in the **spin** ice at low temperature. These results solidify the uncharted ground on which the real physics of frustration can be visualized and modeled by these artificial geometrically frustrated magnets, and in...
641. ...esponse to an external field using Magneto-Optical Kerr Effect. In particular, a non-monotonic angular dependence of the square lattice coercivity is found to be related to disorder in the artificial **spin** ice system. Another type of geometrical frustration arises from the propagation of a local order. A main question that a condensed matter physicist faces is to explain the stability of a solid. It is...
642. ...ating a more conventional iron-based magnetic compass with magnetite particles. According to the first model, magnetoreception is possible via the radical pair mechanism, which is well-established in **spin** chemistry. The mechanism requires two molecules, each with unpaired electrons, at a suitable distance from each other. When these can exist in states either with their spin axes in the same direction...
643. ...ich is well-established in spin chemistry. The mechanism requires two molecules, each with unpaired electrons, at a suitable distance from each other. When these can exist in states either with their **spin** axes in the same direction, or in opposite directions, the molecules oscillate rapidly between the two states. That oscillation is extremely sensitive to magnetic fields. Because the Earth's magnetic...
644. ...their view, cryptochrome and its radical pairs provide the only model that can explain the avian magnetic compass. A scheme with three radicals rather than two has been proposed as more resistant to **spin** relaxation and explaining the observed behaviour better. The second proposed model for magnetoreception relies on clusters composed of iron, a natural mineral with strong magnetism, used by magnetota...
645. ...on r, from the currents by the Biot–Savart equation: formula_13 Strongly magnetic materials (i.e., ferromagnetic, ferrimagnetic or paramagnetic) have a magnetization that is primarily due to electron **spin**. In such materials the magnetization must be explicitly included using the relation formula_14 Except in the case of conductors, electric currents can be ignored. Then Ampère's law is simply formula_...
646. ...city tends to spontaneously magnetize, with a magnetization given by where is the gyromagnetic ratio for the material, is the magnetic susceptibility. The magnetization occurs parallel to the axis of **spin**. Barnett was motivated by a prediction by Owen Richardson in 1908, later named the Einstein–de Haas effect, that magnetizing a ferromagnet can induce a mechanical rotation. He instead looked for the...
647. ...o it, using a simple atom model, as they are easy to understand and relate to even though they are not perfectly correct. The magnetic moment of a free atom is due to the orbital angular momentum and **spin** of its electrons and nucleus. When the atoms are such that their shells are completely filled, they do not have any net magnetic dipole moment in the absence of an external magnetic field. When prese...
648. ...ystem. The thermal energy is so low that the atom is in the ground state. In this ground state, the atom is assumed to have no net orbital angular momentum but only one unpaired electron to give it a **spin** of the half. In the presence of an external magnetic field, the ground state will split into two states having an energy difference proportional to the applied field. The spin of the unpaired electro...
649. ...d electron to give it a spin of the half. In the presence of an external magnetic field, the ground state will split into two states having an energy difference proportional to the applied field. The **spin** of the unpaired electron is parallel to the field in the higher energy state and anti-parallel in the lower one. A density matrix, formula_4, is a matrix that describes a quantum system in a mixed st...
650. ...eld accelerates boron ions and protons to ~ 100–300 keV under oscillating ions' collisions. α-particles of about /4π (~ 10 α-particles/ns) were obtained during the 4 μs of applied voltage. Australian **spin**-off company HB11 Energy was created in September 2019. In 2022, they claimed to be the first commercial company to demonstrate fusion. Fusion reactions can be categorized according to their neutronic...
651. ...ium tetrachloroferrate is a magnetic ionic liquid. It can be obtained from 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride and ferric chloride. It has quite low water solubility. Due to the presence of the high **spin** FeCl anion, the liquid is paramagnetic and a magnetic susceptibility of 40.6 × 10 emu g is reported. A simple small neodymium magnet suffices to attract the liquid in a test tube. Fusion energy gain...
652. ...impurities may be introduced in the magnets, which form nuclei. In this case, because the impurities may have lower anisotropy or misaligned easy axes, their directions of magnetization are easier to **spin**, which breaks the 180° domain wall configuration. In such materials, the coercivity is controlled by nucleation. To obtain much coercivity, impurity control is critical in the fabrication process. Th...
653. ...ermions as found in typical conductors. Cooper pairs are loosely bound and have an energy state lower than that of Fermi Energy. Electrons forming Cooper pairs possess equal and opposite momentum and **spin** so that the total spin of the Cooper pair is an integer spin. Hence, Cooper pairs are bosons. Two such superconductors which have been used in superconducting qubit models are niobium and tantalum, b...
654. ...ical conductors. Cooper pairs are loosely bound and have an energy state lower than that of Fermi Energy. Electrons forming Cooper pairs possess equal and opposite momentum and spin so that the total **spin** of the Cooper pair is an integer spin. Hence, Cooper pairs are bosons. Two such superconductors which have been used in superconducting qubit models are niobium and tantalum, both d-band superconduct...
655. ...ely bound and have an energy state lower than that of Fermi Energy. Electrons forming Cooper pairs possess equal and opposite momentum and spin so that the total spin of the Cooper pair is an integer **spin**. Hence, Cooper pairs are bosons. Two such superconductors which have been used in superconducting qubit models are niobium and tantalum, both d-band superconductors. Once cooled to nearly absolute ze...
656. ...ac-Stark shift, allowing the implementation of all-microwave controlled-phase gates. The Heisenberg model of interactions, written as formula_36, serves as the basis for analog quantum simulation of **spin** systems and the primitive for an expressive set of quantum gates, sometimes referred to as "fermionic simulation" (or "fSim") gates. In superconducting circuits, this interaction model has been imple...
657. ...d a task in 200 seconds that would have taken 10,000 years on a classical computer. Nuclear magnetic moment The nuclear magnetic moment is the magnetic moment of an atomic nucleus and arises from the **spin** of the protons and neutrons. It is mainly a magnetic dipole moment; the quadrupole moment does cause some small shifts in the hyperfine structure as well. All nuclei that have nonzero spin also have...
658. ...s from the spin of the protons and neutrons. It is mainly a magnetic dipole moment; the quadrupole moment does cause some small shifts in the hyperfine structure as well. All nuclei that have nonzero **spin** also have a nonzero magnetic moment and vice versa, although the connection between the two quantities is not straightforward or easy to calculate. The nuclear magnetic moment varies from isotope to...
659. ...magnetic moment varies from isotope to isotope of an element. For a nucleus of which the numbers of protons and of neutrons are "both" even in its ground state (i.e. lowest energy state), the nuclear **spin** and magnetic moment are both always zero. In cases with odd numbers of either or both protons and neutrons, the nucleus often has nonzero spin and magnetic moment. The nuclear magnetic moment is not...
660. ...its ground state (i.e. lowest energy state), the nuclear spin and magnetic moment are both always zero. In cases with odd numbers of either or both protons and neutrons, the nucleus often has nonzero **spin** and magnetic moment. The nuclear magnetic moment is not sum of nucleon magnetic moments, this property being assigned to the tensorial character of the nuclear force, such as in the case of the most...
661. ...oton and neutron do not cancel perfectly) Note that in the table below, the measured magnetic dipole moments, expressed in a ratio to the nuclear magneton, may be divided by the half-integral nuclear **spin** to calculate dimensionless "g"-factors. These "g"-factors may be multiplied by , which is the nuclear magneton divided by the Planck constant, to yield Larmor frequencies (in MHz/T). If divided inste...
662. ...ess, a gyromagnetic ratio expressed in radians is obtained, which is greater by a factor of 2"π". The quantized difference between energy levels corresponding to different orientations of the nuclear **spin** formula_2. The ratio of nuclei in the lower energy state, with spin aligned to the external magnetic field, is determined by the Boltzmann distribution. Thus, multiplying the dimensionless "g"-factor...
663. ...greater by a factor of 2"π". The quantized difference between energy levels corresponding to different orientations of the nuclear spin formula_2. The ratio of nuclei in the lower energy state, with **spin** aligned to the external magnetic field, is determined by the Boltzmann distribution. Thus, multiplying the dimensionless "g"-factor by the nuclear magneton and the applied magnetic field, and dividin...
664. ...field, and dividing by the product of the Boltzmann constant and the temperature. In the shell model, the magnetic moment of a nucleon of total angular momentum "j", orbital angular momentum "l" and **spin** "s", is given by Projecting with the total angular momentum j gives formula_5 has contributions both from the orbital angular momentum and the spin, with different coefficients g and g: by substituti...
665. ...ular momentum "j", orbital angular momentum "l" and spin "s", is given by Projecting with the total angular momentum j gives formula_5 has contributions both from the orbital angular momentum and the **spin**, with different coefficients g and g: by substituting this back to the formula above and rewriting For a single nucleon formula_8. For formula_9 we get and for formula_11 Trish (Devil May Cry) Hideki...
666. ...) about some other mass, or about themselves. In classical mechanics, an object's orbital motion is characterized by its orbital angular momentum (the angular momentum about the axis of rotation) and **spin** angular momentum, which is the object's angular momentum about its own center of mass. In quantum mechanics there are analogous orbital and spin angular momenta which describe the orbital motion of a...
667. ...(the angular momentum about the axis of rotation) and spin angular momentum, which is the object's angular momentum about its own center of mass. In quantum mechanics there are analogous orbital and **spin** angular momenta which describe the orbital motion of a particle, represented as quantum mechanical operators instead of vectors. The paradox of Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle and the wavelike nat...
668. ...of this particle would be proportional to each other by the constant formula_3, the gyromagnetic ratio. However, unlike bodies in classical mechanics an electron carries an intrinsic property called **spin**, which creates an additional (spin) magnetic moment. The total angular momentum of a particle is the sum of both its orbital angular momentum and spin angular momentum. A particle's spin is generally...
669. ...onal to each other by the constant formula_3, the gyromagnetic ratio. However, unlike bodies in classical mechanics an electron carries an intrinsic property called spin, which creates an additional (**spin**) magnetic moment. The total angular momentum of a particle is the sum of both its orbital angular momentum and spin angular momentum. A particle's spin is generally represented in terms of spin opera...
670. ...an electron carries an intrinsic property called spin, which creates an additional (spin) magnetic moment. The total angular momentum of a particle is the sum of both its orbital angular momentum and **spin** angular momentum. A particle's spin is generally represented in terms of spin operators. It turns out for particles that make up ordinary matter (protons, neutrons, electrons, quarks, etc.) particles...
671. ...perty called spin, which creates an additional (spin) magnetic moment. The total angular momentum of a particle is the sum of both its orbital angular momentum and spin angular momentum. A particle's **spin** is generally represented in terms of spin operators. It turns out for particles that make up ordinary matter (protons, neutrons, electrons, quarks, etc.) particles are of spin 1/2. Only two energy le...
672. ...onal (spin) magnetic moment. The total angular momentum of a particle is the sum of both its orbital angular momentum and spin angular momentum. A particle's spin is generally represented in terms of **spin** operators. It turns out for particles that make up ordinary matter (protons, neutrons, electrons, quarks, etc.) particles are of spin 1/2. Only two energy levels (eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian) exi...
673. ...momentum. A particle's spin is generally represented in terms of spin operators. It turns out for particles that make up ordinary matter (protons, neutrons, electrons, quarks, etc.) particles are of **spin** 1/2. Only two energy levels (eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian) exist for a spin 1/2 state: "up" spin, or +1/2, and "down" spin, or -1/2. Thus showing that the inherent quantum property of energy quant...
674. ...s. It turns out for particles that make up ordinary matter (protons, neutrons, electrons, quarks, etc.) particles are of spin 1/2. Only two energy levels (eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian) exist for a **spin** 1/2 state: "up" spin, or +1/2, and "down" spin, or -1/2. Thus showing that the inherent quantum property of energy quantization is a direct result of electron spin. Using the formalisms of wave mecha...
675. ...articles that make up ordinary matter (protons, neutrons, electrons, quarks, etc.) particles are of spin 1/2. Only two energy levels (eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian) exist for a spin 1/2 state: "up" **spin**, or +1/2, and "down" spin, or -1/2. Thus showing that the inherent quantum property of energy quantization is a direct result of electron spin. Using the formalisms of wave mechanics developed by phy...
676. ...nary matter (protons, neutrons, electrons, quarks, etc.) particles are of spin 1/2. Only two energy levels (eigenvectors of the Hamiltonian) exist for a spin 1/2 state: "up" spin, or +1/2, and "down" **spin**, or -1/2. Thus showing that the inherent quantum property of energy quantization is a direct result of electron spin. Using the formalisms of wave mechanics developed by physicist Erwin Schrödinger i...
677. ...ors of the Hamiltonian) exist for a spin 1/2 state: "up" spin, or +1/2, and "down" spin, or -1/2. Thus showing that the inherent quantum property of energy quantization is a direct result of electron **spin**. Using the formalisms of wave mechanics developed by physicist Erwin Schrödinger in 1926, each electron's distribution is described by a 3-dimensional standing wave. This was motivated by the work of...
678. ...laced in a uniform external magnetic field B, the energy levels are shifted. This phenomenon shifts the Hamiltonian with the factor formula_45, where L is the electron's angular momentum and S is its **spin**. In the presence of a weak magnetic field, the fine structure dominates and the Zeeman Hamiltonian term is treated as the perturbation to the unperturbed Hamiltonian, which is a sum of the Bohr and f...
679. ...ine splitting describes the effect is due to the interaction between the magnetic dipole moments of the electron and the proton. This effect gives rise to energy level shifts formula_51. It is called **spin**–spin coupling because it involves the dot product between the spins of the electron and the proton. The Einstein-de Haas effect describes the phenomena in which a change in this magnetic moment cause...
680. ...plitting describes the effect is due to the interaction between the magnetic dipole moments of the electron and the proton. This effect gives rise to energy level shifts formula_51. It is called spin–**spin** coupling because it involves the dot product between the spins of the electron and the proton. The Einstein-de Haas effect describes the phenomena in which a change in this magnetic moment causes the...
681. ...the brand to the Ohio Art Company. Ohio Art, in turn, eventually dropped the license as well, later producing the similar Doodle Sketch until 2016 when it sold that brand along with Etch A Sketch to **Spin** Master. The current licensee of the Magna Doodle brand is Cra-Z-Art. In the TV comedy "Friends", a Magna Doodle is visible in Joey and Chandler's apartment, with various messages written on it throug...
682. ...ems have occasionally been "wyed-up" (converted from delta to wye) so as to increase the line's capacity at a low converted cost, but at the expense of a higher central station protective relay cost. **Spin**–orbit interaction In quantum mechanics, the spin–orbit interaction (also called spin–orbit effect or spin–orbit coupling) is a relativistic interaction of a particle's spin with its motion inside a p...
683. ...rom delta to wye) so as to increase the line's capacity at a low converted cost, but at the expense of a higher central station protective relay cost. Spin–orbit interaction In quantum mechanics, the **spin**–orbit interaction (also called spin–orbit effect or spin–orbit coupling) is a relativistic interaction of a particle's spin with its motion inside a potential. A key example of this phenomenon is the...
684. ...the line's capacity at a low converted cost, but at the expense of a higher central station protective relay cost. Spin–orbit interaction In quantum mechanics, the spin–orbit interaction (also called **spin**–orbit effect or spin–orbit coupling) is a relativistic interaction of a particle's spin with its motion inside a potential. A key example of this phenomenon is the spin–orbit interaction leading to s...
685. ...t a low converted cost, but at the expense of a higher central station protective relay cost. Spin–orbit interaction In quantum mechanics, the spin–orbit interaction (also called spin–orbit effect or **spin**–orbit coupling) is a relativistic interaction of a particle's spin with its motion inside a potential. A key example of this phenomenon is the spin–orbit interaction leading to shifts in an electron'...
686. ...ion protective relay cost. Spin–orbit interaction In quantum mechanics, the spin–orbit interaction (also called spin–orbit effect or spin–orbit coupling) is a relativistic interaction of a particle's **spin** with its motion inside a potential. A key example of this phenomenon is the spin–orbit interaction leading to shifts in an electron's atomic energy levels, due to electromagnetic interaction between...
687. ...orbit interaction (also called spin–orbit effect or spin–orbit coupling) is a relativistic interaction of a particle's spin with its motion inside a potential. A key example of this phenomenon is the **spin**–orbit interaction leading to shifts in an electron's atomic energy levels, due to electromagnetic interaction between the electron's magnetic dipole, its orbital motion, and the electrostatic field o...
688. ...a Zeeman effect product of two effects: the apparent magnetic field seen from the electron perspective due to special relativity and the magnetic moment of the electron associated with its intrinsic **spin** due to quantum mechanics.  For atoms, energy level splitting produced by the spin–orbit interaction is usually of the same order in size as the relativistic corrections to the kinetic energy and the...
689. ...electron perspective due to special relativity and the magnetic moment of the electron associated with its intrinsic spin due to quantum mechanics.  For atoms, energy level splitting produced by the **spin**–orbit interaction is usually of the same order in size as the relativistic corrections to the kinetic energy and the zitterbewegung effect. The addition of these three corrections is known as the fin...
690. ...ar momentum and the strong nuclear force, occurs for protons and neutrons moving inside the nucleus, leading to a shift in their energy levels in the nucleus shell model. In the field of spintronics, **spin**–orbit effects for electrons in semiconductors and other materials are explored for technological applications. The spin–orbit interaction is at the origin of magnetocrystalline anisotropy and the spi...
691. ...in their energy levels in the nucleus shell model. In the field of spintronics, spin–orbit effects for electrons in semiconductors and other materials are explored for technological applications. The **spin**–orbit interaction is at the origin of magnetocrystalline anisotropy and the spin Hall effect. This section presents a relatively simple and quantitative description of the spin–orbit interaction for...
692. ...pin–orbit effects for electrons in semiconductors and other materials are explored for technological applications. The spin–orbit interaction is at the origin of magnetocrystalline anisotropy and the **spin** Hall effect. This section presents a relatively simple and quantitative description of the spin–orbit interaction for an electron bound to a hydrogen-like atom, up to first order in perturbation theo...
693. ...ical applications. The spin–orbit interaction is at the origin of magnetocrystalline anisotropy and the spin Hall effect. This section presents a relatively simple and quantitative description of the **spin**–orbit interaction for an electron bound to a hydrogen-like atom, up to first order in perturbation theory, using some semiclassical electrodynamics and non-relativistic quantum mechanics. This gives...
694. ...nt that is a positive number multiplied by , meaning that the magnetic field is parallel to the orbital angular momentum of the particle, which is itself perpendicular to the particle's velocity. The **spin** magnetic moment of the electron is formula_13 where formula_14 is the spin (or intrinsic angular-momentum) vector, formula_15 is the Bohr magneton, and formula_16 is the electron-spin g-factor. Here...
695. ...d is parallel to the orbital angular momentum of the particle, which is itself perpendicular to the particle's velocity. The spin magnetic moment of the electron is formula_13 where formula_14 is the **spin** (or intrinsic angular-momentum) vector, formula_15 is the Bohr magneton, and formula_16 is the electron-spin g-factor. Here formula_17 is a negative constant multiplied by the spin, so the spin magne...
696. ...s velocity. The spin magnetic moment of the electron is formula_13 where formula_14 is the spin (or intrinsic angular-momentum) vector, formula_15 is the Bohr magneton, and formula_16 is the electron-**spin** g-factor. Here formula_17 is a negative constant multiplied by the spin, so the spin magnetic moment is antiparallel to the spin. The spin–orbit potential consists of two parts. The Larmor part is co...
697. ...formula_14 is the spin (or intrinsic angular-momentum) vector, formula_15 is the Bohr magneton, and formula_16 is the electron-spin g-factor. Here formula_17 is a negative constant multiplied by the **spin**, so the spin magnetic moment is antiparallel to the spin. The spin–orbit potential consists of two parts. The Larmor part is connected to the interaction of the spin magnetic moment of the electron w...
698. ...s the spin (or intrinsic angular-momentum) vector, formula_15 is the Bohr magneton, and formula_16 is the electron-spin g-factor. Here formula_17 is a negative constant multiplied by the spin, so the **spin** magnetic moment is antiparallel to the spin. The spin–orbit potential consists of two parts. The Larmor part is connected to the interaction of the spin magnetic moment of the electron with the magne...
699. ...ector, formula_15 is the Bohr magneton, and formula_16 is the electron-spin g-factor. Here formula_17 is a negative constant multiplied by the spin, so the spin magnetic moment is antiparallel to the **spin**. The spin–orbit potential consists of two parts. The Larmor part is connected to the interaction of the spin magnetic moment of the electron with the magnetic field of the nucleus in the co-moving fr...
700. ...mula_15 is the Bohr magneton, and formula_16 is the electron-spin g-factor. Here formula_17 is a negative constant multiplied by the spin, so the spin magnetic moment is antiparallel to the spin. The **spin**–orbit potential consists of two parts. The Larmor part is connected to the interaction of the spin magnetic moment of the electron with the magnetic field of the nucleus in the co-moving frame of the...
701. ...gative constant multiplied by the spin, so the spin magnetic moment is antiparallel to the spin. The spin–orbit potential consists of two parts. The Larmor part is connected to the interaction of the **spin** magnetic moment of the electron with the magnetic field of the nucleus in the co-moving frame of the electron. The second contribution is related to Thomas precession. The Larmor interaction energy i...
702. ...nucleus in the co-moving frame of the electron. The second contribution is related to Thomas precession. The Larmor interaction energy is formula_18 Substituting in this equation expressions for the **spin** magnetic moment and the magnetic field, one gets formula_19 Now we have to take into account Thomas precession correction for the electron's curved trajectory. In 1926 Llewellyn Thomas relativistical...
703. ...ed to the angular frequency of the orbital motion formula_21 of a spinning particle as follows: formula_22 where formula_23 is the Lorentz factor of the moving particle. The Hamiltonian producing the **spin** precession formula_20 is given by formula_25 To the first order in formula_26, we obtain formula_27 The total spin–orbit potential in an external electrostatic potential takes the form  formula_28 Th...
704. ...rmula_23 is the Lorentz factor of the moving particle. The Hamiltonian producing the spin precession formula_20 is given by formula_25 To the first order in formula_26, we obtain formula_27 The total **spin**–orbit potential in an external electrostatic potential takes the form  formula_28 The net effect of Thomas precession is the reduction of the Larmor interaction energy by factor of about 1/2, which c...
705. ...ve quantum numbers: formula_32 (the "principal quantum number"), formula_33 (the "total angular momentum quantum number"), formula_34 (the "orbital angular momentum quantum number"), formula_35 (the "**spin** quantum number"), and formula_36 (the " component of total angular momentum"). To evaluate the energies, we note that formula_37 for hydrogenic wavefunctions (here formula_38 is the Bohr radius divid...
706. ...valuate the energies, we note that formula_37 for hydrogenic wavefunctions (here formula_38 is the Bohr radius divided by the nuclear charge ); and formula_39 We can now say that formula_40 where the **spin**-orbit coupling constant is formula_41 For the exact relativistic result, see the solutions to the Dirac equation for a hydrogen-like atom. The derivation above calculates the interaction energy in th...
707. ...ded, because one has to account for hidden momentum. A crystalline solid (semiconductor, metal etc.) is characterized by its band structure. While on the overall scale (including the core levels) the **spin**–orbit interaction is still a small perturbation, it may play a relatively more important role if we zoom in to bands close to the Fermi level (formula_42). The atomic formula_43 (spin–orbit) interact...
708. ...ore levels) the spin–orbit interaction is still a small perturbation, it may play a relatively more important role if we zoom in to bands close to the Fermi level (formula_42). The atomic formula_43 (**spin**–orbit) interaction, for example, splits bands that would be otherwise degenerate, and the particular form of this spin–orbit splitting (typically of the order of few to few hundred millielectronvolts...
709. ...e zoom in to bands close to the Fermi level (formula_42). The atomic formula_43 (spin–orbit) interaction, for example, splits bands that would be otherwise degenerate, and the particular form of this **spin**–orbit splitting (typically of the order of few to few hundred millielectronvolts) depends on the particular system. The bands of interest can be then described by various effective models, usually ba...
710. ...illielectronvolts) depends on the particular system. The bands of interest can be then described by various effective models, usually based on some perturbative approach. An example of how the atomic **spin**–orbit interaction influences the band structure of a crystal is explained in the article about Rashba and Dresselhaus interactions. In crystalline solid contained paramagnetic ions, e.g. ions with un...
711. ...d contained paramagnetic ions, e.g. ions with unclosed d or f atomic subshell, localized electronic states exist. In this case, atomic-like electronic levels structure is shaped by intrinsic magnetic **spin**–orbit interactions and interactions with crystalline electric fields. Such structure is named the fine electronic structure. For rare-earth ions the spin–orbit interactions are much stronger than the...
712. ...els structure is shaped by intrinsic magnetic spin–orbit interactions and interactions with crystalline electric fields. Such structure is named the fine electronic structure. For rare-earth ions the **spin**–orbit interactions are much stronger than the crystal electric field (CEF) interactions. The strong spin–orbit coupling makes "J" a relatively good quantum number, because the first excited multiplet...
713. ...lectric fields. Such structure is named the fine electronic structure. For rare-earth ions the spin–orbit interactions are much stronger than the crystal electric field (CEF) interactions. The strong **spin**–orbit coupling makes "J" a relatively good quantum number, because the first excited multiplet is at least ~130 meV (1500 K) above the primary multiplet. The result is that filling it at room tempera...
714. ...uding the inelastic neutron scattering (INS) experiments. The case of strong cubic CEF (for 3"d" transition-metal ions) interactions form group of levels (e.g. "T", "A"), which are partially split by **spin**–orbit interactions and (if occur) lower-symmetry CEF interactions. The energies and eigenfunctions of the discrete fine electronic structure (for the lowest term) are obtained by diagonalization of t...
715. ...ensional matrix. At zero temperature ("T" = 0 K) only the lowest state is occupied. The magnetic moment at "T" = 0 K is equal to the moment of the ground state. It allows the evaluation of the total, **spin** and orbital moments. The eigenstates and corresponding eigenfunctions formula_45 can be found from direct diagonalization of Hamiltonian matrix containing crystal field and spin–orbit interactions. T...
716. ...luation of the total, spin and orbital moments. The eigenstates and corresponding eigenfunctions formula_45 can be found from direct diagonalization of Hamiltonian matrix containing crystal field and **spin**–orbit interactions. Taking into consideration the thermal population of states, the thermal evolution of the single-ion properties of the compound is established. This technique is based on the equiv...
717. ...to the single effective mass of a one-band model of electrons) and formula_55 are angular momentum 3/2 matrices (formula_56 is the free electron mass). In combination with magnetization, this type of **spin**–orbit interaction will distort the electronic bands depending on the magnetization direction, thereby causing magnetocrystalline anisotropy (a special type of magnetic anisotropy). If the semiconduct...
718. ...interaction. The appropriate two-band effective Hamiltonian is formula_60 where formula_61 is the 2 × 2 identity matrix, formula_62 the Pauli matrices and formula_63 the electron effective mass. The **spin**–orbit part of the Hamiltonian, formula_64 is parametrized by formula_65, sometimes called the Rashba parameter (its definition somewhat varies), which is related to the structure asymmetry. Above exp...
719. ...f the Hamiltonian, formula_64 is parametrized by formula_65, sometimes called the Rashba parameter (its definition somewhat varies), which is related to the structure asymmetry. Above expressions for **spin**–orbit interaction couple spin matrices formula_66 and formula_67 to the quasi-momentum formula_68, and to the vector potential formula_69 of an AC electric field through the Peierls substitution form...
720. ...is parametrized by formula_65, sometimes called the Rashba parameter (its definition somewhat varies), which is related to the structure asymmetry. Above expressions for spin–orbit interaction couple **spin** matrices formula_66 and formula_67 to the quasi-momentum formula_68, and to the vector potential formula_69 of an AC electric field through the Peierls substitution formula_70. They are lower order t...
721. ...ough the Peierls substitution formula_70. They are lower order terms of the Luttinger–Kohn k·p perturbation theory in powers of formula_71. Next terms of this expansion also produce terms that couple **spin** operators of the electron coordinate formula_72. Indeed, a cross product formula_73 is invariant with respect to time inversion. In cubic crystals, it has a symmetry of a vector and acquires a meanin...
722. ...ors of the electron coordinate formula_72. Indeed, a cross product formula_73 is invariant with respect to time inversion. In cubic crystals, it has a symmetry of a vector and acquires a meaning of a **spin**–orbit contribution formula_74 to the operator of coordinate. For electrons in semiconductors with a narrow gap formula_75 between the conduction and heavy hole bands, Yafet derived the equation formu...
723. ...formula_75 between the conduction and heavy hole bands, Yafet derived the equation formula_76 where formula_77 is a free electron mass, and formula_78 is a formula_78-factor properly renormalized for **spin**–orbit interaction. This operator couples electron spin formula_80 directly to the electric field formula_81 through the interaction energy formula_82. Electric dipole spin resonance (EDSR) is the cou...
724. ...Yafet derived the equation formula_76 where formula_77 is a free electron mass, and formula_78 is a formula_78-factor properly renormalized for spin–orbit interaction. This operator couples electron **spin** formula_80 directly to the electric field formula_81 through the interaction energy formula_82. Electric dipole spin resonance (EDSR) is the coupling of the electron spin with an oscillating electric...
725. ...r properly renormalized for spin–orbit interaction. This operator couples electron spin formula_80 directly to the electric field formula_81 through the interaction energy formula_82. Electric dipole **spin** resonance (EDSR) is the coupling of the electron spin with an oscillating electric field. Similar to the electron spin resonance (ESR) in which electrons can be excited with an electromagnetic wave w...
726. ...is operator couples electron spin formula_80 directly to the electric field formula_81 through the interaction energy formula_82. Electric dipole spin resonance (EDSR) is the coupling of the electron **spin** with an oscillating electric field. Similar to the electron spin resonance (ESR) in which electrons can be excited with an electromagnetic wave with the energy given by the Zeeman effect, in EDSR the...
727. ...tric field formula_81 through the interaction energy formula_82. Electric dipole spin resonance (EDSR) is the coupling of the electron spin with an oscillating electric field. Similar to the electron **spin** resonance (ESR) in which electrons can be excited with an electromagnetic wave with the energy given by the Zeeman effect, in EDSR the resonance can be achieved if the frequency is related to the ene...
728. ...ons can be excited with an electromagnetic wave with the energy given by the Zeeman effect, in EDSR the resonance can be achieved if the frequency is related to the energy band splitting given by the **spin**–orbit coupling in solids. While in ESR the coupling is obtained via the magnetic part of the EM wave with the electron magnetic moment, the ESDR is the coupling of the electric part with the spin and...
729. ...the spin–orbit coupling in solids. While in ESR the coupling is obtained via the magnetic part of the EM wave with the electron magnetic moment, the ESDR is the coupling of the electric part with the **spin** and motion of the electrons. This mechanism has been proposed for controlling the spin of electrons in quantum dots and other mesoscopic systems. Relativistic plasma Relativistic plasmas in physics a...
730. ...ic part of the EM wave with the electron magnetic moment, the ESDR is the coupling of the electric part with the spin and motion of the electrons. This mechanism has been proposed for controlling the **spin** of electrons in quantum dots and other mesoscopic systems. Relativistic plasma Relativistic plasmas in physics are plasmas for which relativistic corrections to a particle's mass and velocity are imp...
731. ...icrowaves impinging on matter usually interact with charges as well as with spins (via electric and magnetic field components, respectively), with the charge response typically much stronger than the **spin** response. But in the case of magnetic resonance, spins can be directly probed using microwaves. For paramagnetic materials, this technique is called electron spin resonance (ESR) and for ferromagneti...
732. ...nse typically much stronger than the spin response. But in the case of magnetic resonance, spins can be directly probed using microwaves. For paramagnetic materials, this technique is called electron **spin** resonance (ESR) and for ferromagnetic materials ferromagnetic resonance (FMR). In the paramagnetic case, such an experiment probes the Zeeman splitting, with a linear relation between the static exte...
733. ...ve higher processing temperatures in shorter times, therefore, more nutritional and sensory properties are conserved. Electron paramagnetic resonance Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) or electron **spin** resonance (ESR) spectroscopy is a method for studying materials that have unpaired electrons. The basic concepts of EPR are analogous to those of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), but the spins excit...
734. ...State University by Soviet physicist Yevgeny Zavoisky in 1944, and was developed independently at the same time by Brebis Bleaney at the University of Oxford. Every electron has a magnetic moment and **spin** quantum number formula_1, with magnetic components formula_2 or formula_3. In the presence of an external magnetic field with strength formula_4, the electron's magnetic moment aligns itself either a...
735. ...formula_10 are constant) that the splitting of the energy levels is directly proportional to the magnetic field's strength, as shown in the diagram below. An unpaired electron can change its electron **spin** by either absorbing or emitting a photon of energy formula_14 such that the resonance condition, formula_15, is obeyed. This leads to the fundamental equation of EPR spectroscopy: formula_16. Experim...
736. ...mula_3 energy states is widened until it matches the energy of the microwaves, as represented by the double arrow in the diagram above. At this point the unpaired electrons can move between their two **spin** states. Since there typically are more electrons in the lower state, due to the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution (see below), there is a net absorption of energy, and it is this absorption that is moni...
737. ...ass differences, the magnetic moment of an electron is substantially larger than the corresponding quantity for any nucleus, so that a much higher electromagnetic frequency is needed to bring about a **spin** resonance with an electron than with a nucleus, at identical magnetic field strengths. For example, for the field of 3350 G shown above, spin resonance occurs near 9388.2 MHz for an electron compared...
738. ...gher electromagnetic frequency is needed to bring about a spin resonance with an electron than with a nucleus, at identical magnetic field strengths. For example, for the field of 3350 G shown above, **spin** resonance occurs near 9388.2 MHz for an electron compared to only about 14.3 MHz for H nuclei. (For NMR spectroscopy, the corresponding resonance equation is formula_20 where formula_21 and formula_2...
739. ...ormula_55 in an EPR experiment by measuring the field and the frequency at which resonance occurs. If formula_55 does not equal formula_8, the implication is that the ratio of the unpaired electron's **spin** magnetic moment to its angular momentum differs from the free-electron value. Since an electron's spin magnetic moment is constant (approximately the Bohr magneton), then the electron must have gaine...
740. ...ormula_55 does not equal formula_8, the implication is that the ratio of the unpaired electron's spin magnetic moment to its angular momentum differs from the free-electron value. Since an electron's **spin** magnetic moment is constant (approximately the Bohr magneton), then the electron must have gained or lost angular momentum through spin–orbit coupling. Because the mechanisms of spin–orbit coupling a...
741. ...entum differs from the free-electron value. Since an electron's spin magnetic moment is constant (approximately the Bohr magneton), then the electron must have gained or lost angular momentum through **spin**–orbit coupling. Because the mechanisms of spin–orbit coupling are well understood, the magnitude of the change gives information about the nature of the atomic or molecular orbital containing the unp...
742. ...ce an electron's spin magnetic moment is constant (approximately the Bohr magneton), then the electron must have gained or lost angular momentum through spin–orbit coupling. Because the mechanisms of **spin**–orbit coupling are well understood, the magnitude of the change gives information about the nature of the atomic or molecular orbital containing the unpaired electron. In general, the "g" factor is n...
743. ...on. In general, the "g" factor is not a number but a 3×3 matrix. The principal axes of this tensor are determined by the local fields, for example, by the local atomic arrangement around the unpaired **spin** in a solid or in a molecule. Choosing an appropriate coordinate system (say, "x","y","z") allows one to "diagonalize" this tensor, thereby reducing the maximal number of its components from 9 to 3: "...
744. ...Choosing an appropriate coordinate system (say, "x","y","z") allows one to "diagonalize" this tensor, thereby reducing the maximal number of its components from 9 to 3: "g", "g" and "g". For a single **spin** experiencing only Zeeman interaction with an external magnetic field, the position of the EPR resonance is given by the expression "gB" + "gB" + "gB". Here "B", "B" and "B" are the components of the...
745. ...in powders, and the spectra are therefore called "powder-pattern spectra". In crystals, the number of EPR lines is determined by the number of crystallographically equivalent orientations of the EPR **spin** (called "EPR center"). At higher temperatures, the three peaks coalesce to a singlet, corresponding to g, for isotropic. The relationship between g and the components is: One elementary step in analy...
746. ...f "g" factor standards, Herb et al. introduced a precise procedure by using double resonance techniques based on the Overhauser shift. Since the source of an EPR spectrum is a change in an electron's **spin** state, the EPR spectrum for a radical (S = 1/2 system) would consist of one line. Greater complexity arises because the spin couples with nearby nuclear spins. The magnitude of the coupling is propor...
747. ...er shift. Since the source of an EPR spectrum is a change in an electron's spin state, the EPR spectrum for a radical (S = 1/2 system) would consist of one line. Greater complexity arises because the **spin** couples with nearby nuclear spins. The magnitude of the coupling is proportional to the magnetic moment of the coupled nuclei and depends on the mechanism of the coupling. Coupling is mediated by two...
748. ...of isotropic interactions (independent of sample orientation in a magnetic field) and the latter to the case of anisotropic interactions (spectra dependent on sample orientation in a magnetic field). **Spin** polarization is a third mechanism for interactions between an unpaired electron and a nuclear spin, being especially important for formula_61-electron organic radicals, such as the benzene radical an...
749. ...the case of anisotropic interactions (spectra dependent on sample orientation in a magnetic field). Spin polarization is a third mechanism for interactions between an unpaired electron and a nuclear **spin**, being especially important for formula_61-electron organic radicals, such as the benzene radical anion. The symbols ""a"" or ""A"" are used for isotropic hyperfine coupling constants, while ""B"" is...
750. ...al and biological applications of EPR also exist. Although radicals are very reactive, so they do not normally occur in high concentrations in biology, special reagents have been developed to attach "**spin** labels", also called "spin probes", to molecules of interest. Specially-designed nonreactive radical molecules can attach to specific sites in a biological cell, and EPR spectra then give information...
751. ...ons of EPR also exist. Although radicals are very reactive, so they do not normally occur in high concentrations in biology, special reagents have been developed to attach "spin labels", also called "**spin** probes", to molecules of interest. Specially-designed nonreactive radical molecules can attach to specific sites in a biological cell, and EPR spectra then give information on the environment of the...
752. ...probes", to molecules of interest. Specially-designed nonreactive radical molecules can attach to specific sites in a biological cell, and EPR spectra then give information on the environment of the **spin** labels. Spin-labeled fatty acids have been extensively used to study dynamic organisation of lipids in biological membranes, lipid-protein interactions and temperature of transition of gel to liquid...
753. ...molecules of interest. Specially-designed nonreactive radical molecules can attach to specific sites in a biological cell, and EPR spectra then give information on the environment of the spin labels. **Spin**-labeled fatty acids have been extensively used to study dynamic organisation of lipids in biological membranes, lipid-protein interactions and temperature of transition of gel to liquid crystalline p...
754. ...have been extensively used to study dynamic organisation of lipids in biological membranes, lipid-protein interactions and temperature of transition of gel to liquid crystalline phases. Injection of **spin**-labeled molecules allows for electron resonance imaging of living organisms. A type of dosimetry system has been designed for reference standards and routine use in medicine, based on EPR signals of...
755. ...active and unstable, thus necessitating a technique such as EPR that can identify radical species specifically.  In the field of quantum computing, pulsed EPR is used to control the state of electron **spin** qubits in materials such as diamond, silicon and gallium arsenide. High-field high-frequency EPR measurements are sometimes needed to detect subtle spectroscopic details. However, for many years the...
756. ...e an EPR signal is detected. The dynamics of electron spins are best studied with pulsed measurements. Microwave pulses typically 10–100 ns long are used to control the spins in the Bloch sphere. The **spin**–lattice relaxation time can be measured with an inversion recovery experiment. As with pulsed NMR, the Hahn echo is central to many pulsed EPR experiments. A Hahn echo decay experiment can be used to...
757. ...t order in the corrections, we have formula_12 where and the subscript 2 denotes the leading order-"e" correction. The tensor structure of is fixed by the Ward identity. Vacuum polarization affecting **spin** interactions has also been reported based on experimental data and also treated theoretically in quantum chromodynamics, as for example in considering the hadron spin structure. Single-molecule magne...
758. ...y. Vacuum polarization affecting spin interactions has also been reported based on experimental data and also treated theoretically in quantum chromodynamics, as for example in considering the hadron **spin** structure. Single-molecule magnet A single-molecule magnet (SMM) is a metal-organic compound that has superparamagnetic behavior below a certain blocking temperature at the molecular scale. In this t...
759. ...e or room temperature in order to enable applications in magnetic memory. Along with raising the blocking temperature, efforts are being made to develop SMMs with high energy barriers to prevent fast **spin** reorientation. Recent acceleration in this field of research has resulted in significant enhancements of single-molecule magnet operating temperatures to above 70 K. Because of single-molecule magnet...
760. ...between the spins of the metal ions is mediated by superexchange interactions and can be described by the following isotropic Heisenberg Hamiltonian: where formula_3 is the coupling constant between **spin** "i" (operator formula_4) and spin "j" (operator formula_5). For positive "J" the coupling is called ferromagnetic (parallel alignment of spins) and for negative "J" the coupling is called antiferroma...
761. ...ns is mediated by superexchange interactions and can be described by the following isotropic Heisenberg Hamiltonian: where formula_3 is the coupling constant between spin "i" (operator formula_4) and **spin** "j" (operator formula_5). For positive "J" the coupling is called ferromagnetic (parallel alignment of spins) and for negative "J" the coupling is called antiferromagnetic (antiparallel alignment of...
762. ...formula_5). For positive "J" the coupling is called ferromagnetic (parallel alignment of spins) and for negative "J" the coupling is called antiferromagnetic (antiparallel alignment of spins): a high **spin** ground state, a high zero-field-splitting (due to high magnetic anisotropy), and negligible magnetic interaction between molecules. The combination of these properties can lead to an energy barrier,...
763. ...py), and negligible magnetic interaction between molecules. The combination of these properties can lead to an energy barrier, so that at low temperatures the system can be trapped in one of the high-**spin** energy wells. A single-molecule magnet can have a positive or negative magnetic moment, and the energy barrier between these two states greatly determines the molecule's relaxation time. This barrier...
764. ...e-molecule magnet can have a positive or negative magnetic moment, and the energy barrier between these two states greatly determines the molecule's relaxation time. This barrier depends on the total **spin** of the molecule's ground state and on its magnetic anisotropy. The latter quantity can be studied with EPR spectroscopy. The performance of single-molecule magnets is typically defined by two paramet...
765. ...perature. [MnO(OAc)(HO)]·4HO·2AcOH, which is called "Mn-acetate" is a common form of this used in research. Single-molecule magnets are also based on iron clusters because they potentially have large **spin** states. In addition, the biomolecule ferritin is also considered a nanomagnet. In the cluster FeBr the cation Fe stands for [FeO(OH)(tacn)], with tacn representing 1,4,7-triazacyclononane. The ferrou...
766. ...er, and the core of this complex is a slightly distorted cube with Fe and O atoms on alternating corners. Remarkably, this single-molecule magnet exhibits non-collinear magnetism, in which the atomic **spin** moments of the four Fe atoms point in opposite directions along two nearly perpendicular axes. Theoretical computations showed that approximately two magnetic electrons are localized on each Fe atom,...
767. ...ns along two nearly perpendicular axes. Theoretical computations showed that approximately two magnetic electrons are localized on each Fe atom, with the other atoms being nearly nonmagnetic, and the **spin**–orbit-coupling potential energy surface has three local energy minima with a magnetic anisotropy barrier just below 3 meV. There are many discovered types and potential uses. Single-molecule magnets...
768. ...3 meV. There are many discovered types and potential uses. Single-molecule magnets represent a molecular approach to nanomagnets (nanoscale magnetic particles). Due to the typically large, bi-stable **spin** anisotropy, single-molecule magnets promise the realization of perhaps the smallest practical unit for magnetic memory, and thus are possible building blocks for a quantum computer. Consequently, man...
769. ...different orientations. Anisotropy ensures that a collection of independent spins would be advantageous for quantum computing applications. A large amount of independent spins compared to a singular **spin**, permits the creation of a larger qubit and therefore a larger faculty of memory. Superposition and interference of the independent spins also allows for further simplification of classical computati...
770. ...magnets are considered ideal for this function due to their cluster of independent spins. A study conducted by Leuenberger and Loss, specifically utilized crystals to amplify the moment of the single **spin** molecule magnets Mn and Fe. Mn and Fe were both found to be ideal for memory storage with a retrieval time of approximately 10 seconds. Another approach to information storage with SMM Fe involves th...
771. ...ions to obtain "forward" and "backward" polarizations; these are a form of light-cone coordinates in which the metric is off-diagonal. An expansion of the "g" factor in terms of circularly polarized (**spin** ±1) and light-cone coordinates is called a spin sum. Spin sums can be very helpful both in simplifying expressions and in obtaining a physical understanding of the experimental effects associated wit...
772. ...tions; these are a form of light-cone coordinates in which the metric is off-diagonal. An expansion of the "g" factor in terms of circularly polarized (spin ±1) and light-cone coordinates is called a **spin** sum. Spin sums can be very helpful both in simplifying expressions and in obtaining a physical understanding of the experimental effects associated with different terms in a theoretical calculation....
773. ...se are a form of light-cone coordinates in which the metric is off-diagonal. An expansion of the "g" factor in terms of circularly polarized (spin ±1) and light-cone coordinates is called a spin sum. **Spin** sums can be very helpful both in simplifying expressions and in obtaining a physical understanding of the experimental effects associated with different terms in a theoretical calculation. Richard Fe...
774. ...in Physics. Forward and backward polarized radiation can be omitted in the asymptotic states of a quantum field theory (see Ward–Takahashi identity). For this reason, and because their appearance in **spin** sums can be seen as a mere mathematical device in QED (much like the electromagnetic four-potential in classical electrodynamics), they are often spoken of as "unphysical". But unlike the constraint-...
775. ...s. This leads to the explicit appearance of forward and backward polarized gauge bosons in Feynman diagrams, along with Faddeev–Popov ghosts, which are even more "unphysical" in that they violate the **spin**–statistics theorem. The relationship between these entities, and the reasons why they do not appear as particles in the quantum mechanical sense, becomes more evident in the BRST formalism of quantiz...
776. ...r by Wigner. A certain amount of electron correlation is already considered within the HF approximation, found in the electron exchange term describing the correlation between electrons with parallel **spin**. This basic correlation prevents two parallel-spin electrons from being found at the same point in space and is often called Pauli correlation. Coulomb correlation, on the other hand, describes the c...
777. ...on is already considered within the HF approximation, found in the electron exchange term describing the correlation between electrons with parallel spin. This basic correlation prevents two parallel-**spin** electrons from being found at the same point in space and is often called Pauli correlation. Coulomb correlation, on the other hand, describes the correlation between the spatial position of electron...
778. ...sition of electrons due to their Coulomb repulsion, and is responsible for chemically important effects such as London dispersion. There is also a correlation related to the overall symmetry or total **spin** of the considered system. The word correlation energy has to be used with caution. First it is usually defined as the energy difference of a correlated method relative to the Hartree–Fock energy. But...
779. ...s many dramatic manifestations such as quasi-particle fractionalization. However, there is no exact solution of the Hubbard model in more than one dimension. The RKKY interaction can explain electron **spin** correlations between unpaired inner shell electrons in different atoms in a conducting crystal by a second-order interaction that is mediated by conduction electrons. The Tomonaga–Luttinger liquid mo...
780. ...eed of light).  The ions pass through a foil which strips off each ion's two electrons, converting it to a proton. The protons pass into a ring-shaped structure, a proton accumulator ring, where they **spin** around at very high speeds and accumulate in "bunches." Each bunch of protons is released from the ring as a pulse, at a rate of 60 times per second (60 hertz). The high-energy proton pulses strike a...
781. ...tion of ferromagnetic domains. Domains change size by the domain walls moving within the crystal lattice in response to changes in the magnetic field, by the process of dipoles near the wall changing **spin** to align with spins in the neighboring domain. In a perfect crystal lattice this can be a continuous process, but in actual crystals local defects in the lattice, such as impurity atoms or dislocatio...
782. ...crystal lattice this can be a continuous process, but in actual crystals local defects in the lattice, such as impurity atoms or dislocations in the structure form temporary barriers to the change of **spin**, causing the domain wall to be hung up on the defect. When the change in magnetic field becomes strong enough to overcome the local energy barrier at the defect, it causes a group of atoms to flip th...
783. ...using the domain wall to be hung up on the defect. When the change in magnetic field becomes strong enough to overcome the local energy barrier at the defect, it causes a group of atoms to flip their **spin** at once, as the domain wall "snaps" past the defect. This sudden change in magnetization causes a transient change in magnetic flux through the bar, which is picked up by the coil as a "click" in the...
784. ...t result from those interactions.  The origin of the magnetic moments responsible for magnetization can be either microscopic electric currents resulting from the motion of electrons in atoms, or the **spin** of the electrons or the nuclei. Net magnetization results from the response of a material to an external magnetic field.  Paramagnetic materials have a weak induced magnetization in a magnetic field,...
785. ...organic devices. PEDOT:PSS is generally applied as a dispersion of gelled particles in water. A conductive layer on glass is obtained by spreading a layer of the dispersion on the surface usually by **spin** coating and driving out the water by heat. Special PEDOT:PSS inks and formulations were developed for different coating and printing processes. Water-based PEDOT:PSS inks are mainly used in slot die...
786. ...n of ~6 μC/cm. Since the ferroelectricity is not the primary order parameter it is described as "improper". The multiferroic phase is reached at ~100K when a triangular antiferromagnetic order due to **spin** frustration arises. Charge ordering can occur in compounds containing ions of mixed valence when the electrons, which are delocalised at high temperature, localize in an ordered pattern on different...
787. ...magnetic spiral state, accompanied by a small ferroelectric polarization, below 28K in TbMnO. In this case the polarization is small, 10 μC/cm, because the mechanism coupling the non-centrosymmetric **spin** structure to the crystal lattice is the weak spin-orbit coupling. Larger polarizations occur when the non-centrosymmetric magnetic ordering is caused by the stronger superexchange interaction, such a...
788. ...roelectric polarization, below 28K in TbMnO. In this case the polarization is small, 10 μC/cm, because the mechanism coupling the non-centrosymmetric spin structure to the crystal lattice is the weak **spin**-orbit coupling. Larger polarizations occur when the non-centrosymmetric magnetic ordering is caused by the stronger superexchange interaction, such as in orthorhombic HoMnO and related materials. In...
789. ...oupled magnetic and ferroelectric order parameters can be exploited for developing magnetoelectronic devices. These include novel spintronic devices such as tunnel magnetoresistance (TMR) sensors and **spin** valves with electric field tunable functions. A typical TMR device consists of two layers of ferromagnetic materials separated by a thin tunnel barrier (~2 nm) made of a multiferroic thin film. In su...
790. ...electric field tunable functions. A typical TMR device consists of two layers of ferromagnetic materials separated by a thin tunnel barrier (~2 nm) made of a multiferroic thin film. In such a device, **spin** transport across the barrier can be electrically tuned. In another configuration, a multiferroic layer can be used as the exchange bias pinning layer. If the antiferromagnetic spin orientations in th...
791. ...In such a device, spin transport across the barrier can be electrically tuned. In another configuration, a multiferroic layer can be used as the exchange bias pinning layer. If the antiferromagnetic **spin** orientations in the multiferroic pinning layer can be electrically tuned, then magnetoresistance of the device can be controlled by the applied electric field. One can also explore multiple state mem...
792. ...witching from collinear antiferromagnetic state to spiral antiferromagnetic state in CuO under excitation by 40 fs 800 nm laser pulse. A second example shows the possibility for the direct control of **spin** waves with THz radiation on antiferromagnetic NiO. These are promising demonstrations of how the switching of electric and magnetic properties in multiferroics, mediated by the mixed character of the...
793. ...-T mobile TV systems. Variable capacitance is sometimes used to convert physical phenomena into electrical signals. Spontaneous magnetization Spontaneous magnetization is the appearance of an ordered **spin** state (magnetization) at zero applied magnetic field in a ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic material below a critical point called the Curie temperature or . Heated to temperatures above , ferromagnetic...
794. ...ferrimagnetic material below a critical point called the Curie temperature or . Heated to temperatures above , ferromagnetic materials become paramagnetic and their magnetic behavior is dominated by **spin** waves or magnons, which are boson collective excitations with energies in the meV range. The magnetization that occurs below is an example of the "spontaneous" breaking of a global symmetry, a phenom...
795. ...atures is given by the Bloch T law: where is the spontaneous magnetization at absolute zero. The decrease in spontaneous magnetization at higher temperatures is caused by the increasing excitation of **spin** waves. In a particle description, the spin waves correspond to magnons, which are the massless Goldstone bosons corresponding to the broken symmetry. This is exactly true for an isotropic magnet. Mag...
796. ...s the spontaneous magnetization at absolute zero. The decrease in spontaneous magnetization at higher temperatures is caused by the increasing excitation of spin waves. In a particle description, the **spin** waves correspond to magnons, which are the massless Goldstone bosons corresponding to the broken symmetry. This is exactly true for an isotropic magnet. Magnetic anisotropy, that is the existence of...
797. ...ential physics underlying the phenomenon is the exchange interaction between the antiferromagnet and ferromagnet at their interface. Since antiferromagnets have a small or no net magnetization, their **spin** orientation is only weakly influenced by an externally applied magnetic field. A soft ferromagnetic film which is strongly exchange-coupled to the antiferromagnet will have its interfacial spins pinn...
798. ...gest the following expression for energy per unit area: formula_1 where "n" is the number of interfacial spins interactions per unit area, J is the exchange constant at the interface, S refers to the **spin** vector, M refers to the magnetization, t refers to film thickness and H is the external field. The subscript F describes the properties of the ferromagnet and AF to the antiferromagnet. The expressio...
799. ...effect. Without the stabilization, the magnetic domain state of the head could be unpredictable, leading to reliability problems. Currently, exchange bias is used to pin the harder reference layer in **spin** valve readback heads and MRAM memory circuits that utilize the giant magnetoresistance or magnetic tunneling effect. Similarly, the most advanced disk media are antiferromagnetically coupled, making...
800. ...toresistance (AMR) disk drive recording head, which was based on a design by Hunt in the 1970s but which didn't fully displace the inductive readback head until the early 1990s. By the mid-1990s, the **spin** valve head using an exchange-bias layer was well on its way to displacing the AMR head. Bedlam (comics) Bedlam (Jesse Aaronson) is a mutant superhero appearing in American comic books published by Ma...
801. ...- 19 issues published, then absorbed in Serie-Nytt), "Serie-Nytt" (1970–74), reprints appeared in "Seriemagasinet" (1977–80), various very early stories thus far unreleased in Sweden are found in its **spin**-off "SM Special" (1979–85). Steel Claw episodes appeared sporadically in "Seriemagasinet" until the late 1990s. Reprints further appeared in "Barracuda" (1990–91; 9 issues published). The Steel Claw...
802. ...age in that time). The Slovene title of the comic was "Jeklena pest" (transl. "Steel Fist"). Yugoslav rock band S.T.R.A.H. (transl. "F.E.A.R.") chose their name after the organization from the comic. **Spin** wave In condensed matter physics, a spin wave is a propagating disturbance in the ordering of a magnetic material. These low-lying collective excitations occur in magnetic lattices with continuous sy...
803. ...he comic was "Jeklena pest" (transl. "Steel Fist"). Yugoslav rock band S.T.R.A.H. (transl. "F.E.A.R.") chose their name after the organization from the comic. Spin wave In condensed matter physics, a **spin** wave is a propagating disturbance in the ordering of a magnetic material. These low-lying collective excitations occur in magnetic lattices with continuous symmetry. From the equivalent quasiparticle...
804. ...gating disturbance in the ordering of a magnetic material. These low-lying collective excitations occur in magnetic lattices with continuous symmetry. From the equivalent quasiparticle point of view, **spin** waves are known as magnons, which are bosonic modes of the spin lattice that correspond roughly to the phonon excitations of the nuclear lattice. As temperature is increased, the thermal excitation o...
805. ...low-lying collective excitations occur in magnetic lattices with continuous symmetry. From the equivalent quasiparticle point of view, spin waves are known as magnons, which are bosonic modes of the **spin** lattice that correspond roughly to the phonon excitations of the nuclear lattice. As temperature is increased, the thermal excitation of spin waves reduces a ferromagnet's spontaneous magnetization....
806. ...aves are known as magnons, which are bosonic modes of the spin lattice that correspond roughly to the phonon excitations of the nuclear lattice. As temperature is increased, the thermal excitation of **spin** waves reduces a ferromagnet's spontaneous magnetization. The energies of spin waves are typically only in keeping with typical Curie points at room temperature and below. The simplest way of understa...
807. ...rrespond roughly to the phonon excitations of the nuclear lattice. As temperature is increased, the thermal excitation of spin waves reduces a ferromagnet's spontaneous magnetization. The energies of **spin** waves are typically only in keeping with typical Curie points at room temperature and below. The simplest way of understanding spin waves is to consider the Hamiltonian formula_1 for the Heisenberg f...
808. ...reduces a ferromagnet's spontaneous magnetization. The energies of spin waves are typically only in keeping with typical Curie points at room temperature and below. The simplest way of understanding **spin** waves is to consider the Hamiltonian formula_1 for the Heisenberg ferromagnet: where is the exchange energy, the operators represent the spins at Bravais lattice points, is the Landé -factor, is the...
809. ...ground state of the Hamiltonian formula_4 is that in which all spins are aligned parallel with the field . That formula_4 is an eigenstate of formula_1 can be verified by rewriting it in terms of the **spin**-raising and spin-lowering operators given by: resulting in where has been taken as the direction of the magnetic field. The spin-lowering operator annihilates the state with minimum projection of spi...
810. ...he Hamiltonian formula_4 is that in which all spins are aligned parallel with the field . That formula_4 is an eigenstate of formula_1 can be verified by rewriting it in terms of the spin-raising and **spin**-lowering operators given by: resulting in where has been taken as the direction of the magnetic field. The spin-lowering operator annihilates the state with minimum projection of spin along the -axis...
811. ...igenstate of formula_1 can be verified by rewriting it in terms of the spin-raising and spin-lowering operators given by: resulting in where has been taken as the direction of the magnetic field. The **spin**-lowering operator annihilates the state with minimum projection of spin along the -axis, while the spin-raising operator annihilates the ground state with maximum spin projection along the -axis. Sin...
812. ...pin-raising and spin-lowering operators given by: resulting in where has been taken as the direction of the magnetic field. The spin-lowering operator annihilates the state with minimum projection of **spin** along the -axis, while the spin-raising operator annihilates the ground state with maximum spin projection along the -axis. Since for the maximally aligned state, we find where N is the total number...
813. ...erators given by: resulting in where has been taken as the direction of the magnetic field. The spin-lowering operator annihilates the state with minimum projection of spin along the -axis, while the **spin**-raising operator annihilates the ground state with maximum spin projection along the -axis. Since for the maximally aligned state, we find where N is the total number of Bravais lattice sites. The pr...
814. ...tion of the magnetic field. The spin-lowering operator annihilates the state with minimum projection of spin along the -axis, while the spin-raising operator annihilates the ground state with maximum **spin** projection along the -axis. Since for the maximally aligned state, we find where N is the total number of Bravais lattice sites. The proposition that the ground state is an eigenstate of the Hamilton...
815. ...ravais lattice sites. The proposition that the ground state is an eigenstate of the Hamiltonian is confirmed. One might guess that the first excited state of the Hamiltonian has one randomly selected **spin** at position rotated so that but in fact this arrangement of spins is not an eigenstate. The reason is that such a state is transformed by the spin raising and lowering operators. The operator formula...
816. ...d state of the Hamiltonian has one randomly selected spin at position rotated so that but in fact this arrangement of spins is not an eigenstate. The reason is that such a state is transformed by the **spin** raising and lowering operators. The operator formula_12 will increase the -projection of the spin at position back to its low-energy orientation, but the operator formula_13 will lower the -projectio...
817. ...this arrangement of spins is not an eigenstate. The reason is that such a state is transformed by the spin raising and lowering operators. The operator formula_12 will increase the -projection of the **spin** at position back to its low-energy orientation, but the operator formula_13 will lower the -projection of the spin at position . The combined effect of the two operators is therefore to propagate the...
818. ...and lowering operators. The operator formula_12 will increase the -projection of the spin at position back to its low-energy orientation, but the operator formula_13 will lower the -projection of the **spin** at position . The combined effect of the two operators is therefore to propagate the rotated spin to a new position, which is a hint that the correct eigenstate is a spin wave, namely a superposition...
819. ...ion back to its low-energy orientation, but the operator formula_13 will lower the -projection of the spin at position . The combined effect of the two operators is therefore to propagate the rotated **spin** to a new position, which is a hint that the correct eigenstate is a spin wave, namely a superposition of states with one reduced spin. The exchange energy penalty associated with changing the orienta...
820. ...lower the -projection of the spin at position . The combined effect of the two operators is therefore to propagate the rotated spin to a new position, which is a hint that the correct eigenstate is a **spin** wave, namely a superposition of states with one reduced spin. The exchange energy penalty associated with changing the orientation of one spin is reduced by spreading the disturbance over a long wave...
821. ...effect of the two operators is therefore to propagate the rotated spin to a new position, which is a hint that the correct eigenstate is a spin wave, namely a superposition of states with one reduced **spin**. The exchange energy penalty associated with changing the orientation of one spin is reduced by spreading the disturbance over a long wavelength. The degree of misorientation of any two near-neighbor...
822. ...sition, which is a hint that the correct eigenstate is a spin wave, namely a superposition of states with one reduced spin. The exchange energy penalty associated with changing the orientation of one **spin** is reduced by spreading the disturbance over a long wavelength. The degree of misorientation of any two near-neighbor spins is thereby minimized. From this explanation one can see why the Ising model...
823. ...ce over a long wavelength. The degree of misorientation of any two near-neighbor spins is thereby minimized. From this explanation one can see why the Ising model magnet with discrete symmetry has no **spin** waves: the notion of spreading a disturbance in the spin lattice over a long wavelength makes no sense when spins have only two possible orientations. The existence of low-energy excitations is relat...
824. ...f any two near-neighbor spins is thereby minimized. From this explanation one can see why the Ising model magnet with discrete symmetry has no spin waves: the notion of spreading a disturbance in the **spin** lattice over a long wavelength makes no sense when spins have only two possible orientations. The existence of low-energy excitations is related to the fact that in the absence of an external field,...
825. ...tice over a long wavelength makes no sense when spins have only two possible orientations. The existence of low-energy excitations is related to the fact that in the absence of an external field, the **spin** system has an infinite number of degenerate ground states with infinitesimally different spin orientations. The existence of these ground states can be seen from the fact that the state formula_4 doe...
826. ...existence of low-energy excitations is related to the fact that in the absence of an external field, the spin system has an infinite number of degenerate ground states with infinitesimally different **spin** orientations. The existence of these ground states can be seen from the fact that the state formula_4 does not have the full rotational symmetry of the Hamiltonian formula_1, a phenomenon which is ca...
827. ...not have the full rotational symmetry of the Hamiltonian formula_1, a phenomenon which is called spontaneous symmetry breaking. In this model the magnetization where is the volume. The propagation of **spin** waves is described by the Landau-Lifshitz equation of motion: where is the gyromagnetic ratio and is the damping constant. The cross-products in this forbidding-looking equation show that the propaga...
828. ...s described by the Landau-Lifshitz equation of motion: where is the gyromagnetic ratio and is the damping constant. The cross-products in this forbidding-looking equation show that the propagation of **spin** waves is governed by the torques generated by internal and external fields. (An equivalent form is the Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert equation, which replaces the final term by a more "simple looking" equiv...
829. ...elation for phonons is to first order linear in wavevector , namely , where is frequency, and is the velocity of sound. Magnons have a parabolic dispersion relation: where the parameter represents a "**spin** stiffness." The form is the third term of a Taylor expansion of a cosine term in the energy expression originating from the dot product. The underlying reason for the difference in dispersion relatio...
830. ...the ground-state in ferromagnets violates time-reversal symmetry. Two adjacent spins in a solid with lattice constant that participate in a mode with wavevector have an angle between them equal to . **Spin** waves are observed through four experimental methods: inelastic neutron scattering, inelastic light scattering (Brillouin scattering, Raman scattering and inelastic X-ray scattering), inelastic elect...
831. ...ved through four experimental methods: inelastic neutron scattering, inelastic light scattering (Brillouin scattering, Raman scattering and inelastic X-ray scattering), inelastic electron scattering (**spin**-resolved electron energy loss spectroscopy), and spin-wave resonance (ferromagnetic resonance).  When magnetoelectronic devices are operated at high frequencies, the generation of spin waves can be a...
832. ...on scattering, inelastic light scattering (Brillouin scattering, Raman scattering and inelastic X-ray scattering), inelastic electron scattering (spin-resolved electron energy loss spectroscopy), and **spin**-wave resonance (ferromagnetic resonance).  When magnetoelectronic devices are operated at high frequencies, the generation of spin waves can be an important energy loss mechanism. Spin wave generatio...
833. ...on scattering (spin-resolved electron energy loss spectroscopy), and spin-wave resonance (ferromagnetic resonance).  When magnetoelectronic devices are operated at high frequencies, the generation of **spin** waves can be an important energy loss mechanism. Spin wave generation limits the linewidths and therefore the quality factors "Q" of ferrite components used in microwave devices. The reciprocal of th...
834. ...troscopy), and spin-wave resonance (ferromagnetic resonance).  When magnetoelectronic devices are operated at high frequencies, the generation of spin waves can be an important energy loss mechanism. **Spin** wave generation limits the linewidths and therefore the quality factors "Q" of ferrite components used in microwave devices. The reciprocal of the lowest frequency of the characteristic spin waves of...
835. ...chanism. Spin wave generation limits the linewidths and therefore the quality factors "Q" of ferrite components used in microwave devices. The reciprocal of the lowest frequency of the characteristic **spin** waves of a magnetic material gives a time scale for the switching of a device based on that material. Wooly Willy Wooly Willy is a toy in which metal filings are moved about with a magnetic wand to a...
836. ...ompounds exhibit properties relevant to spintronics, such as magnetoresistance, variations of the Hall effect, ferro-, antiferro-, and ferrimagnetism, half- and semimetallicity, semiconductivity with **spin** filter ability, superconductivity, topological band structure and are actively studied as thermoelectric materials. Their magnetism results from a double-exchange mechanism between neighboring magnet...
837. ...cture toughness is sensitive to inclusions and existing cracks in the material, so it is as expected dependent on the sample preparation. Half-metallic ferromagnets exhibit a metallic behavior in one **spin** channel and an insulating behavior in the other spin channel. The first example of Heusler half-metallic ferromagnets was first investigated by de Groot et al., with the case of NiMnSb. Half-metallic...
838. ...ng cracks in the material, so it is as expected dependent on the sample preparation. Half-metallic ferromagnets exhibit a metallic behavior in one spin channel and an insulating behavior in the other **spin** channel. The first example of Heusler half-metallic ferromagnets was first investigated by de Groot et al., with the case of NiMnSb. Half-metallicity leads to the full polarization of the conducting...
839. ...nal organic materials. Continuous Mott transitions have been reported in semiconductor moire materials. A theory of a continuous Mott transition is available if the Mott insulating phase is a quantum **spin** liquid with an emergent fermi surface of neutral fermions. Mott insulators are of growing interest in advanced physics research, and are not yet fully understood. They have applications in thin-film...
840. ...lators and electronic materials, and show unusual (often technologically useful) electronic and magnetic properties, such as metal-insulator transitions, heavy fermion behavior, half-metallicity, and **spin**-charge separation. The essential feature that defines these materials is that the behavior of their electrons or spinons cannot be described effectively in terms of non-interacting entities. Theoreti...
841. ...ed materials, among others. Many transition metal oxides belong to this class which may be subdivided according to their behavior, "e.g." high-T, spintronic materials, multiferroics, Mott insulators, **spin** Peierls materials, heavy fermion materials, quasi-low-dimensional materials, etc. The single most intensively studied effect is probably high-temperature superconductivity in doped cuprates, e.g. LaS...
842. ...en the gate and the body of the MOSFET. When V » 0, electrons are injected into the floating gate. When V « 0, electrons are forced out of the floating gate. An alternative to tunnel injection is the **spin** injection. Bus analyzer A bus analyzer is a type of a protocol analysis tool, used for capturing and analyzing communication data across a specific interface bus, usually embedded in a hardware syste...
843. ...s the theoretical curve of an induction motor. For formula_38 the skin effect dominates and the braking torque decreases much slower with increasing speed than predicted by the induction motor model. **Spin** density wave Spin-density wave (SDW) and charge-density wave (CDW) are names for two similar low-energy ordered states of solids. Both these states occur at low temperature in anisotropic, low-dimens...
844. ...curve of an induction motor. For formula_38 the skin effect dominates and the braking torque decreases much slower with increasing speed than predicted by the induction motor model. Spin density wave **Spin**-density wave (SDW) and charge-density wave (CDW) are names for two similar low-energy ordered states of solids. Both these states occur at low temperature in anisotropic, low-dimensional materials or...
845. ...electron pockets centered at formula_6 and hole pockets at H. These large parallel regions can be spanned by the nesting wavevector formula_4 shown in red. The real-space periodicity of the resulting **spin**-density wave is given by formula_8. The formation of an SDW with a corresponding spatial frequency causes the opening of an energy gap that lowers the system's energy. The existence of the SDW in Cr...
846. ...gold nanoparticles, nanorods and clusters. The effects of radiation damping on nuclear magnetic resonance were also observed by Nicolaas Bloembergen and Robert Pound, who reported its dominance over **spin**–spin and spin–lattice relaxation mechanisms for certain cases. The Abraham–Lorentz force has been observed in the semiclassical regime in experiments which involve the scattering of a relativistic be...
847. ...nanoparticles, nanorods and clusters. The effects of radiation damping on nuclear magnetic resonance were also observed by Nicolaas Bloembergen and Robert Pound, who reported its dominance over spin–**spin** and spin–lattice relaxation mechanisms for certain cases. The Abraham–Lorentz force has been observed in the semiclassical regime in experiments which involve the scattering of a relativistic beam of...
848. ...icles, nanorods and clusters. The effects of radiation damping on nuclear magnetic resonance were also observed by Nicolaas Bloembergen and Robert Pound, who reported its dominance over spin–spin and **spin**–lattice relaxation mechanisms for certain cases. The Abraham–Lorentz force has been observed in the semiclassical regime in experiments which involve the scattering of a relativistic beam of electron...
849. ...lows the accumulation of complex environmental structures in the environment. Upon the absorption of light, triplet oxygen converts to singlet oxygen, a highly reactive form of the gas, which effects **spin**-allowed oxidations. In the atmosphere, the organic compounds are degraded by hydroxyl radicals, which are produced from water and ozone. Photochemical reactions are initiated by the absorption of a p...
850. ...cted into a gas at about 10 mm Hg pressure. Plasmoids can also be made to smash each other into fragments. There is some scant evidence to support the hypothesis that they undergo fission and possess **spin**. A plasmoid has an internal pressure stemming from both the gas pressure of the plasma and the magnetic pressure of the field. To maintain an approximately static plasmoid radius, this pressure must...
851. ...nanoribbon field effect transistor (GNR-FET) on the right (where the channel is assumed to be ballistic), the current from A to B, given by the Boltzmann transport equation, is where "g" = 2, due to **spin** degeneracy, "e" is the electron charge, "h" is the Planck constant, formula_13 and formula_14 are the Fermi levels of "A" and "B", "M"("E") is the number of propagating modes in the channel, "f"′("E"...
852. ...ased on the definition of conductance and the voltage separation between the Fermi levels is approximately formula_16, it follows that where "M" is the number of modes in the transmission channel and **spin** is included. formula_19 is known as the conductance quantum. The contacts have a multiplicity of modes due to their larger size in comparison to the channel. Conversely, the quantum confinement in th...
853. ...he number of modes to carrier degeneracy and restrictions from the energy dispersion relationship and the Brillouin zone. For example, electrons in carbon nanotubes have two intervalley modes and two **spin** modes. Since the contacts and the GNR channel are connected by leads, the transmission probability is smaller at contacts "A" and "B", Thus the quantum conductance is approximately the same if measur...
854. ...erefore, even in the case of a perfect ballistic transport, there is a fundamental ballistic conductance which saturates the current of the device with a resistance of approximately 12.9 kΩ per mode (**spin** degeneracy included). There is, however, a generalization of the Landauer–Büttiker formalism of transport applicable to time-dependent problems in the presence of dissipation. Ballistic conduction en...
855. ...ffused in milk or reflected off a white wall or a piece of paper. Electrons can be scattered several ways in a conductor. Electrons have several properties: wavelength (energy), direction, phase, and **spin** orientation. Different materials have different scattering probabilities which cause different incoherence rates (stochasticity). Some kinds of scattering can only cause a change in electron directio...
856. ...s such as spectroscopic techniques or conception of microwave devices. The FMR spectroscopic technique is used to probe the magnetization of ferromagnetic materials. It is a standard tool for probing **spin** waves and spin dynamics. FMR is very broadly similar to electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), and also somewhat similar to nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), except that FMR probes the sample magneti...
857. ...roscopic techniques or conception of microwave devices. The FMR spectroscopic technique is used to probe the magnetization of ferromagnetic materials. It is a standard tool for probing spin waves and **spin** dynamics. FMR is very broadly similar to electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), and also somewhat similar to nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), except that FMR probes the sample magnetization resultin...
858. ...ents of dipolar-coupled but unpaired electrons, while NMR probes the magnetic moment of atomic nuclei that are screened by the atomic or molecular orbitals surrounding such nuclei of non-zero nuclear **spin**. The FMR resonance is also the basis of various high-frequency electronic devices, such as resonance isolators or circulators. Ferromagnetic resonance was experimentally discovered by V. K. Arkad'yev...
859. ...in Huntsville, Alabama, developed a sensor monitoring system that used digital transmission for security, fire, and medical alarm systems as well as meter reading capabilities. This technology was a **spin**-off from the automatic telephone line identification system, now known as Caller ID. In 1974, Paraskevakos was awarded a U.S. patent for this technology. In 1977, he launched Metretek, Inc., which de...
860. ...stry, for example among bis(1,2-dithiolene) metal complexes. Diradicals are usually triplets. The phrases "singlet" and "triplet" are derived from the multiplicity of states of diradicals in electron **spin** resonance: a singlet diradical has one state (S=0, M=2*0+1=1, m=0) and exhibits no signal in EPR and a triplet diradical has 3 states (S=1, M=2*1+1=3, m=-1; 0; 1) and shows in EPR 2 peaks (if no hype...
861. ...(S=0, M=2*0+1=1, m=0) and exhibits no signal in EPR and a triplet diradical has 3 states (S=1, M=2*1+1=3, m=-1; 0; 1) and shows in EPR 2 peaks (if no hyperfine splitting). The triplet state has total **spin** quantum number S=1 and is paramagnetic. Therefore, diradical species display a triplet state when the two electrons are unpaired and display the same spin. When the unpaired electrons with opposite s...
862. ...fine splitting). The triplet state has total spin quantum number S=1 and is paramagnetic. Therefore, diradical species display a triplet state when the two electrons are unpaired and display the same **spin**. When the unpaired electrons with opposite spin are antiferromagnetically coupled, diradical species can display a singlet state (S=0) and be diamagnetic. Stable, isolable, diradicals include singlet...
863. ...n quantum number S=1 and is paramagnetic. Therefore, diradical species display a triplet state when the two electrons are unpaired and display the same spin. When the unpaired electrons with opposite **spin** are antiferromagnetically coupled, diradical species can display a singlet state (S=0) and be diamagnetic. Stable, isolable, diradicals include singlet oxygen and triplet oxygen. Other important dira...
864. ...minimized when the magnetization is perfectly uniform. The exchange term is isotropic, so any direction is equally acceptable. Magnetic anisotropy arises due to a combination of crystal structure and **spin**-orbit interaction. It can be generally written as: where formula_15, the anisotropy energy density, is a function of the orientation of the magnetization. Minimum-energy directions for formula_15 are...
865. ...used by Hans Bethe in 1931 to find the exact eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the one-dimensional antiferromagnetic isotropic (XXX) Heisenberg model.  Since then the method has been extended to other **spin** chains and statistical lattice models. "Bethe ansatz problems" were one of the topics featuring in the "To learn" section of Richard Feynman's blackboard at the time of his death. In the framework of...
866. ...onducting Super Collider, which cost $2 billion prior to its cancellation. Scalar electrodynamics In theoretical physics, scalar electrodynamics is a theory of a U(1) gauge field coupled to a charged **spin** 0 scalar field that takes the place of the Dirac fermions in "ordinary" quantum electrodynamics. The scalar field is charged, and with an appropriate potential, it has the capacity to break the gauge...
867. .... It was shown that one can readout the state of such a semifluxon molecule by using on-chip SQUIDs. One can also switch between the up-down or down-up states of the molecule by applying the current. **Spin** ice A spin ice is a magnetic substance that does not have a single minimal-energy state. It has magnetic moments (i.e. "spin") as elementary degrees of freedom which are subject to frustrated interac...
868. ...own that one can readout the state of such a semifluxon molecule by using on-chip SQUIDs. One can also switch between the up-down or down-up states of the molecule by applying the current. Spin ice A **spin** ice is a magnetic substance that does not have a single minimal-energy state. It has magnetic moments (i.e. "spin") as elementary degrees of freedom which are subject to frustrated interactions. By t...
869. ...een the up-down or down-up states of the molecule by applying the current. Spin ice A spin ice is a magnetic substance that does not have a single minimal-energy state. It has magnetic moments (i.e. "**spin**") as elementary degrees of freedom which are subject to frustrated interactions. By their nature, these interactions prevent the moments from exhibiting a periodic pattern in their orientation down t...
870. ...ctions. By their nature, these interactions prevent the moments from exhibiting a periodic pattern in their orientation down to a temperature much below the energy scale set by the said interactions. **Spin** ices show low-temperature properties, residual entropy in particular, closely related to those of common crystalline water ice. The most prominent compounds with such properties are dysprosium titana...
871. ...ed to those of common crystalline water ice. The most prominent compounds with such properties are dysprosium titanate (DyTiO) and holmium titanate (HoTiO). The orientation of the magnetic moments in **spin** ice resembles the positional organization of hydrogen atoms (more accurately, ionized hydrogen, or protons) in conventional water ice (see figure 1). Experiments have found evidence for the existence...
872. ...t the zero-temperature entropy of ice was expected to be extensive. Pauling's findings were confirmed by specific heat measurements, though pure crystals of water ice are particularly hard to create. **Spin** ices are materials that consist of regular corner-linked tetrahedra of magnetic ions, each of which has a non-zero magnetic moment, often abridged to "spin", which must satisfy in their low-energy st...
873. ...water ice are particularly hard to create. Spin ices are materials that consist of regular corner-linked tetrahedra of magnetic ions, each of which has a non-zero magnetic moment, often abridged to "**spin**", which must satisfy in their low-energy state a "two-in, two-out" rule on each tetrahedron making the crystalline structure (see figure 2). This is highly analogous to the two-near, two far rule in...
874. ...ighly analogous to the two-near, two far rule in water ice (see figure 1). Just as Pauling showed that the ice rule leads to an extensive entropy in water ice, so does the two-in, two-out rule in the **spin** ice systems – these exhibit the "same" residual entropy properties as water ice. Be that as it may, depending on the specific spin ice material, it is generally much easier to create large single cry...
875. ...ensive entropy in water ice, so does the two-in, two-out rule in the spin ice systems – these exhibit the "same" residual entropy properties as water ice. Be that as it may, depending on the specific **spin** ice material, it is generally much easier to create large single crystals of spin ice materials than water ice crystals. Additionally, the ease to induce interaction of the magnetic moments with an e...
876. ...ems – these exhibit the "same" residual entropy properties as water ice. Be that as it may, depending on the specific spin ice material, it is generally much easier to create large single crystals of **spin** ice materials than water ice crystals. Additionally, the ease to induce interaction of the magnetic moments with an external magnetic field in a spin ice system makes the spin ices more suitable than...
877. ...ly much easier to create large single crystals of spin ice materials than water ice crystals. Additionally, the ease to induce interaction of the magnetic moments with an external magnetic field in a **spin** ice system makes the spin ices more suitable than water ice for exploring how the residual entropy can be affected by external influences. While Philip Anderson had already noted in 1956 the connecti...
878. ...arge single crystals of spin ice materials than water ice crystals. Additionally, the ease to induce interaction of the magnetic moments with an external magnetic field in a spin ice system makes the **spin** ices more suitable than water ice for exploring how the residual entropy can be affected by external influences. While Philip Anderson had already noted in 1956 the connection between the problem of...
879. ...derson had already noted in 1956 the connection between the problem of the frustrated Ising antiferromagnet on a (pyrochlore) lattice of corner-shared tetrahedra and Pauling's water ice problem, real **spin** ice materials were only discovered forty years later. The first materials identified as spin ices were the pyrochlores DyTiO (dysprosium titanate), HoTiO (holmium titanate). In addition, compelling e...
880. ...ntiferromagnet on a (pyrochlore) lattice of corner-shared tetrahedra and Pauling's water ice problem, real spin ice materials were only discovered forty years later. The first materials identified as **spin** ices were the pyrochlores DyTiO (dysprosium titanate), HoTiO (holmium titanate). In addition, compelling evidence has been reported that DySnO (dysprosium stannate) and HoSnO (holmium stannate) are s...
881. ...n ices were the pyrochlores DyTiO (dysprosium titanate), HoTiO (holmium titanate). In addition, compelling evidence has been reported that DySnO (dysprosium stannate) and HoSnO (holmium stannate) are **spin** ices. These four compounds belong to the family of rare-earth pyrochlore oxides. CdErSe, a spinel in which the magnetic Er ions sit on corner-linked tetrahedra, also displays spin ice behavior. Spin...
882. ...lmium stannate) are spin ices. These four compounds belong to the family of rare-earth pyrochlore oxides. CdErSe, a spinel in which the magnetic Er ions sit on corner-linked tetrahedra, also displays **spin** ice behavior. Spin ice materials are characterized by a random disorder in the orientation of the moment of the magnetic ions, even when the material is at very low temperatures. Alternating current...
883. ...spin ices. These four compounds belong to the family of rare-earth pyrochlore oxides. CdErSe, a spinel in which the magnetic Er ions sit on corner-linked tetrahedra, also displays spin ice behavior. **Spin** ice materials are characterized by a random disorder in the orientation of the moment of the magnetic ions, even when the material is at very low temperatures. Alternating current (AC) magnetic susce...
884. ...gnals a rapid change in the number of tetrahedra where the two-in, two-out rule is violated. Tetrahedra where the rule is violated are sites where the aforementioned monopoles reside. Mathematically, **spin** ice configurations can be described by closed Eulerian paths. Spin ices are geometrically frustrated magnetic systems. While frustration is usually associated with triangular or tetrahedral arrangeme...
885. ...two-out rule is violated. Tetrahedra where the rule is violated are sites where the aforementioned monopoles reside. Mathematically, spin ice configurations can be described by closed Eulerian paths. **Spin** ices are geometrically frustrated magnetic systems. While frustration is usually associated with triangular or tetrahedral arrangements of magnetic moments coupled via antiferromagnetic exchange inte...
886. ...tic systems. While frustration is usually associated with triangular or tetrahedral arrangements of magnetic moments coupled via antiferromagnetic exchange interactions, as in Anderson's Ising model, **spin** ices are frustrated ferromagnets. It is the very strong local magnetic anisotropy from the crystal field forcing the magnetic moments to point either in or out of a tetrahedron that renders ferromagn...
887. ...s. It is the very strong local magnetic anisotropy from the crystal field forcing the magnetic moments to point either in or out of a tetrahedron that renders ferromagnetic interactions frustrated in **spin** ices. Most importantly, it is the long-range magnetostatic dipole–dipole interaction, and "not" the nearest-neighbor exchange, that causes the frustration and the consequential two-in, two-out rule t...
888. ...tantly, it is the long-range magnetostatic dipole–dipole interaction, and "not" the nearest-neighbor exchange, that causes the frustration and the consequential two-in, two-out rule that leads to the **spin** ice phenomenology. For a tetrahedron in a two-in, two-out state, the magnetization field is divergent-free; there is as much "magnetization intensity" entering a tetrahedron as there is leaving (see...
889. ...the field. According to Gauss' theorem (also known as Ostrogradsky's theorem), a nonzero divergence of a field is caused, and can be characterized, by a real number called "charge". In the context of **spin** ice, such charges characterizing the violation of the two-in, two-out magnetic moment orientation rule are the aforementioned monopoles. In Autumn 2009, researchers reported experimental observation...
890. ...out magnetic moment orientation rule are the aforementioned monopoles. In Autumn 2009, researchers reported experimental observation of low-energy quasiparticles resembling the predicted monopoles in **spin** ice. A single crystal of the dysprosium titanate spin ice candidate was examined in the temperature range of 0.6–2.0K. Using neutron scattering, the magnetic moments were shown to align in the spin i...
891. ...ioned monopoles. In Autumn 2009, researchers reported experimental observation of low-energy quasiparticles resembling the predicted monopoles in spin ice. A single crystal of the dysprosium titanate **spin** ice candidate was examined in the temperature range of 0.6–2.0K. Using neutron scattering, the magnetic moments were shown to align in the spin ice material into interwoven tube-like bundles resembli...
892. ...n spin ice. A single crystal of the dysprosium titanate spin ice candidate was examined in the temperature range of 0.6–2.0K. Using neutron scattering, the magnetic moments were shown to align in the **spin** ice material into interwoven tube-like bundles resembling Dirac strings. At the defect formed by the end of each tube, the magnetic field looks like that of a monopole. Using an applied magnetic fiel...
893. ...ty of the material in terms of an effective gas of these quasiparticles was also presented. The effective charge of a magnetic monopole, "Q" (see figure 3) in both the dysprosium and holmium titanate **spin** ice compounds is approximately (Bohr magnetons per angstrom). The elementary magnetic constituents of spin ice are magnetic dipoles, so the emergence of monopoles is an example of the phenomenon of f...
894. ...harge of a magnetic monopole, "Q" (see figure 3) in both the dysprosium and holmium titanate spin ice compounds is approximately (Bohr magnetons per angstrom). The elementary magnetic constituents of **spin** ice are magnetic dipoles, so the emergence of monopoles is an example of the phenomenon of fractionalization. The microscopic origin of the atomic magnetic moments in magnetic materials is quantum me...
895. ...nstant enters explicitly in the equation defining the magnetic moment of an electron, along with its charge and its mass. Yet, the magnetic moments in the dysprosium titanate and the holmium titanate **spin** ice materials are effectively described by "classical" statistical mechanics, and not quantum statistical mechanics, over the experimentally relevant and reasonably accessible temperature range (betw...
896. ...ly described by "classical" statistical mechanics, and not quantum statistical mechanics, over the experimentally relevant and reasonably accessible temperature range (between 0.05K and 2K) where the **spin** ice phenomena manifest themselves. Although the weakness of quantum effects in these two compounds is rather unusual, it is believed to be understood. There is current interest in the search of quant...
897. ...e phenomena manifest themselves. Although the weakness of quantum effects in these two compounds is rather unusual, it is believed to be understood. There is current interest in the search of quantum **spin** ices, materials in which the laws of quantum mechanics now become needed to describe the behavior of the magnetic moments. Magnetic ions other than dysprosium (Dy) and holmium (Ho) are required to ge...
898. ...in which the laws of quantum mechanics now become needed to describe the behavior of the magnetic moments. Magnetic ions other than dysprosium (Dy) and holmium (Ho) are required to generate a quantum **spin** ice, with praseodymium (Pr), terbium (Tb) and ytterbium (Yb) being possible candidates. One reason for the interest in quantum spin ice is the belief that these systems may harbor a "quantum spin liq...
899. ...dysprosium (Dy) and holmium (Ho) are required to generate a quantum spin ice, with praseodymium (Pr), terbium (Tb) and ytterbium (Yb) being possible candidates. One reason for the interest in quantum **spin** ice is the belief that these systems may harbor a "quantum spin liquid", a state of matter where magnetic moments continue to wiggle (fluctuate) down to absolute zero temperature. The theory describi...
900. ...tum spin ice, with praseodymium (Pr), terbium (Tb) and ytterbium (Yb) being possible candidates. One reason for the interest in quantum spin ice is the belief that these systems may harbor a "quantum **spin** liquid", a state of matter where magnetic moments continue to wiggle (fluctuate) down to absolute zero temperature. The theory describing the low-temperature and low-energy properties of quantum spin...
901. ...spin liquid", a state of matter where magnetic moments continue to wiggle (fluctuate) down to absolute zero temperature. The theory describing the low-temperature and low-energy properties of quantum **spin** ice is akin to that of vacuum quantum electrodynamics, or QED. This constitutes an example of the idea of emergence. Artificial spin ices are metamaterials consisting of coupled nanomagnets arranged...
902. ...escribing the low-temperature and low-energy properties of quantum spin ice is akin to that of vacuum quantum electrodynamics, or QED. This constitutes an example of the idea of emergence. Artificial **spin** ices are metamaterials consisting of coupled nanomagnets arranged on periodic and aperiodic lattices. These systems have enabled the experimental investigation of a variety of phenomena such as frust...
903. ...periodic lattices. These systems have enabled the experimental investigation of a variety of phenomena such as frustration, emergent magnetic monopoles, and phase transitions. In addition, artificial **spin** ices show potential as reprogrammable magnonic crystals and have been studied for their fast dynamics. A variety of geometries have been explored, including quasicrystalline systems and 3D structures...
904. .... For example, polymer magnetic composites comprising 2D lattices of droplets of solid-liquid phase change material, with each droplet containing a single magnetic dipole particle, form an artificial **spin** ice above the droplet melting point, and, after cooling, a spin glass state with low bulk remanence. Spontaneous emergence of 2D magnetic vortices was observed in such spin ices, which vortex geometr...
905. ...s of droplets of solid-liquid phase change material, with each droplet containing a single magnetic dipole particle, form an artificial spin ice above the droplet melting point, and, after cooling, a **spin** glass state with low bulk remanence. Spontaneous emergence of 2D magnetic vortices was observed in such spin ices, which vortex geometries were correlated with the external bulk remanence. Future wor...
906. ...rticle, form an artificial spin ice above the droplet melting point, and, after cooling, a spin glass state with low bulk remanence. Spontaneous emergence of 2D magnetic vortices was observed in such **spin** ices, which vortex geometries were correlated with the external bulk remanence. Future work in this field includes further developments in fabrication and characterization methods, exploration of new...
907. ...d material combinations, and potential applications in computation, data storage, and reconfigurable microwave circuits. In 2021 a study demonstrated neuromorphic reservoir computing using artificial **spin** ice, solving a range of computational tasks using the complex magnetic dynamics of the artificial spin ice. In 2022, another studied achieved an artificial kagome spin ice which could potentially be...
908. ...crowave circuits. In 2021 a study demonstrated neuromorphic reservoir computing using artificial spin ice, solving a range of computational tasks using the complex magnetic dynamics of the artificial **spin** ice. In 2022, another studied achieved an artificial kagome spin ice which could potentially be used in the future for novel high-speed computers with low power consumption. Long Josephson junction I...
909. ...voir computing using artificial spin ice, solving a range of computational tasks using the complex magnetic dynamics of the artificial spin ice. In 2022, another studied achieved an artificial kagome **spin** ice which could potentially be used in the future for novel high-speed computers with low power consumption. Long Josephson junction In superconductivity, a long Josephson junction (LJJ) is a Josephs...
910. ...superconductivity. There are various experimental techniques to determine the London penetration depth, and in particular its temperature dependence. London penetration depth can be measured by muon **spin** spectroscopy when the superconductor does not have an intrinsic magnetic constitution. The penetration depth is directly converted from the depolarization rate of muon spin in relation which "σ"("T")...
911. ...th can be measured by muon spin spectroscopy when the superconductor does not have an intrinsic magnetic constitution. The penetration depth is directly converted from the depolarization rate of muon **spin** in relation which "σ"("T") is proportional to "λ"("T"). The shape of "σ"("T") is different with the kind of superconducting energy gap in temperature, so that this immediately indicates the shape of...
912. ...combination of exchange symmetry and the Coulomb interaction. For an electron in an electron gas, the exchange symmetry creates an "exchange hole" in its vicinity, which other electrons with the same **spin** tend to avoid due to the Pauli exclusion principle. This decreases the energy associated with the Coulomb interactions between the electrons with same spin. Since two electrons with different spins a...
913. ...cinity, which other electrons with the same spin tend to avoid due to the Pauli exclusion principle. This decreases the energy associated with the Coulomb interactions between the electrons with same **spin**. Since two electrons with different spins are distinguishable from each other and not subject to the exchange symmetry, the effect tends to align the spins. Exchange interaction is the main physical...
914. ...or fermions are sometimes used as an intuitive description of the effect but this intuition can give incorrect physical results. Quantum mechanical particles are classified as bosons or fermions. The **spin**–statistics theorem of quantum field theory demands that all particles with half-integer spin behave as fermions and all particles with integer spin behave as bosons. Multiple bosons may occupy the sa...
915. ...an give incorrect physical results. Quantum mechanical particles are classified as bosons or fermions. The spin–statistics theorem of quantum field theory demands that all particles with half-integer **spin** behave as fermions and all particles with integer spin behave as bosons. Multiple bosons may occupy the same quantum state; however, by the Pauli exclusion principle, no two fermions can occupy the s...
916. ...particles are classified as bosons or fermions. The spin–statistics theorem of quantum field theory demands that all particles with half-integer spin behave as fermions and all particles with integer **spin** behave as bosons. Multiple bosons may occupy the same quantum state; however, by the Pauli exclusion principle, no two fermions can occupy the same state. Since electrons have spin 1/2, they are ferm...
917. ...icles with integer spin behave as bosons. Multiple bosons may occupy the same quantum state; however, by the Pauli exclusion principle, no two fermions can occupy the same state. Since electrons have **spin** 1/2, they are fermions. This means that the overall wave function of a system must be antisymmetric when two electrons are exchanged, i.e. interchanged with respect to both spatial and spin coordinat...
918. ...rons have spin 1/2, they are fermions. This means that the overall wave function of a system must be antisymmetric when two electrons are exchanged, i.e. interchanged with respect to both spatial and **spin** coordinates. First, however, exchange will be explained with the neglect of spin. Taking a hydrogen molecule-like system (i.e. one with two electrons), one may attempt to model the state of each elec...
919. ...of a system must be antisymmetric when two electrons are exchanged, i.e. interchanged with respect to both spatial and spin coordinates. First, however, exchange will be explained with the neglect of **spin**. Taking a hydrogen molecule-like system (i.e. one with two electrons), one may attempt to model the state of each electron by first assuming the electrons behave independently (that is, as if the Pau...
920. ...changes sign at some critical ratio of internuclear distance to mean radial extension of the atomic orbital. The symmetric and antisymmetric combinations in Equations (1) and (2) did not include the **spin** variables (α = spin-up; β = spin-down); there are also antisymmetric and symmetric combinations of the spin variables: To obtain the overall wave function, these spin combinations have to be coupled...
921. ...e critical ratio of internuclear distance to mean radial extension of the atomic orbital. The symmetric and antisymmetric combinations in Equations (1) and (2) did not include the spin variables (α = **spin**-up; β = spin-down); there are also antisymmetric and symmetric combinations of the spin variables: To obtain the overall wave function, these spin combinations have to be coupled with Eqs. (1) and (2...
922. ...tio of internuclear distance to mean radial extension of the atomic orbital. The symmetric and antisymmetric combinations in Equations (1) and (2) did not include the spin variables (α = spin-up; β = **spin**-down); there are also antisymmetric and symmetric combinations of the spin variables: To obtain the overall wave function, these spin combinations have to be coupled with Eqs. (1) and (2). The result...
923. .... The symmetric and antisymmetric combinations in Equations (1) and (2) did not include the spin variables (α = spin-up; β = spin-down); there are also antisymmetric and symmetric combinations of the **spin** variables: To obtain the overall wave function, these spin combinations have to be coupled with Eqs. (1) and (2). The resulting overall wave functions, called spin-orbitals, are written as Slater det...
924. ...(1) and (2) did not include the spin variables (α = spin-up; β = spin-down); there are also antisymmetric and symmetric combinations of the spin variables: To obtain the overall wave function, these **spin** combinations have to be coupled with Eqs. (1) and (2). The resulting overall wave functions, called spin-orbitals, are written as Slater determinants. When the orbital wave function is symmetrical th...
925. ...c and symmetric combinations of the spin variables: To obtain the overall wave function, these spin combinations have to be coupled with Eqs. (1) and (2). The resulting overall wave functions, called **spin**-orbitals, are written as Slater determinants. When the orbital wave function is symmetrical the spin one must be anti-symmetrical and vice versa. Accordingly, "E" above corresponds to the spatially s...
926. ...ombinations have to be coupled with Eqs. (1) and (2). The resulting overall wave functions, called spin-orbitals, are written as Slater determinants. When the orbital wave function is symmetrical the **spin** one must be anti-symmetrical and vice versa. Accordingly, "E" above corresponds to the spatially symmetric/spin-singlet solution and "E" to the spatially antisymmetric/spin-triplet solution. J. H. Va...
927. ..., are written as Slater determinants. When the orbital wave function is symmetrical the spin one must be anti-symmetrical and vice versa. Accordingly, "E" above corresponds to the spatially symmetric/**spin**-singlet solution and "E" to the spatially antisymmetric/spin-triplet solution. J. H. Van Vleck presented the following analysis: Dirac pointed out that the critical features of the exchange interacti...
928. ...unction is symmetrical the spin one must be anti-symmetrical and vice versa. Accordingly, "E" above corresponds to the spatially symmetric/spin-singlet solution and "E" to the spatially antisymmetric/**spin**-triplet solution. J. H. Van Vleck presented the following analysis: Dirac pointed out that the critical features of the exchange interaction could be obtained in an elementary way by neglecting the f...
929. ...ns as simply having their spins coupled by a potential of the form: It follows that the exchange interaction Hamiltonian between two electrons in orbitals "Φ" and "Φ" can be written in terms of their **spin** momenta formula_39 and formula_40. This interaction is named the Heisenberg exchange Hamiltonian or the Heisenberg–Dirac Hamiltonian in the older literature: "J" is not the same as the quantity label...
930. ...ered cubic lattice, and for a face-centered cubic lattice, The form of Eq. (14) corresponds identically to the Ising model of ferromagnetism except that in the Ising model, the dot product of the two **spin** angular momenta is replaced by the scalar product "SS". The Ising model was invented by Wilhelm Lenz in 1920 and solved for the one-dimensional case by his doctoral student Ernst Ising in 1925. The e...
931. ...d–Mulliken–Bloch (molecular orbital/band) description, for the electron wave functions is more realistic. Accordingly, the Stoner model of ferromagnetism is more applicable.  In the Stoner model, the **spin**-only magnetic moment (in Bohr magnetons) per atom in a ferromagnet is given by the difference between the number of electrons per atom in the majority spin and minority spin states. The Stoner model...
932. ...more applicable.  In the Stoner model, the spin-only magnetic moment (in Bohr magnetons) per atom in a ferromagnet is given by the difference between the number of electrons per atom in the majority **spin** and minority spin states. The Stoner model thus permits non-integral values for the spin-only magnetic moment per atom. However, with ferromagnets formula_44 ("g" = 2.0023 ≈ 2) tends to overestimate...
933. ...In the Stoner model, the spin-only magnetic moment (in Bohr magnetons) per atom in a ferromagnet is given by the difference between the number of electrons per atom in the majority spin and minority **spin** states. The Stoner model thus permits non-integral values for the spin-only magnetic moment per atom. However, with ferromagnets formula_44 ("g" = 2.0023 ≈ 2) tends to overestimate the total spin-onl...
934. ...per atom in a ferromagnet is given by the difference between the number of electrons per atom in the majority spin and minority spin states. The Stoner model thus permits non-integral values for the **spin**-only magnetic moment per atom. However, with ferromagnets formula_44 ("g" = 2.0023 ≈ 2) tends to overestimate the total spin-only magnetic moment per atom.  For example, a net magnetic moment of 0.54...
935. ...ity spin states. The Stoner model thus permits non-integral values for the spin-only magnetic moment per atom. However, with ferromagnets formula_44 ("g" = 2.0023 ≈ 2) tends to overestimate the total **spin**-only magnetic moment per atom.  For example, a net magnetic moment of 0.54 μ per atom for Nickel metal is predicted by the Stoner model, which is very close to the 0.61 Bohr magnetons calculated base...
936. ...tion magnetic induction, its density, and its atomic weight. By contrast, an isolated Ni atom (electron configuration = 3"d"4"s") in a cubic crystal field will have two unpaired electrons of the same **spin** (hence, formula_45) and would thus be expected to have in the localized electron model a total spin magnetic moment of formula_46 (but the measured spin-only magnetic moment along one axis, the physi...
937. ...ron configuration = 3"d"4"s") in a cubic crystal field will have two unpaired electrons of the same spin (hence, formula_45) and would thus be expected to have in the localized electron model a total **spin** magnetic moment of formula_46 (but the measured spin-only magnetic moment along one axis, the physical observable, will be given by formula_47).  Generally, valence "s" and "p" electrons are best con...
938. ...d will have two unpaired electrons of the same spin (hence, formula_45) and would thus be expected to have in the localized electron model a total spin magnetic moment of formula_46 (but the measured **spin**-only magnetic moment along one axis, the physical observable, will be given by formula_47).  Generally, valence "s" and "p" electrons are best considered delocalized, while 4"f" electrons are localiz...
939. ...oth material classes are quasi-one-dimensional at room-temperature, only conducting along the molecule stacks, and share a very rich phase diagram containing antiferromagnetic ordering, charge order, **spin**-density wave state, dimensional crossover and superconductivity. Only one Bechgaard salt was found to be superconducting at ambient pressure which is (TMTTF)ClO with a transition temperature of T = 1...
940. ...relations. In addition to the superconducting ground state these materials show charge-order, antiferromagnetism or remain metallic down to lowest temperatures. One compound is even predicted to be a **spin** liquid. The highest transition temperatures at ambient pressure and with external pressure are both found in κ-phases with very similar anions. κ-(ET)Cu[N(CN)]Br becomes superconducting at T = 11.8 K...
941. ...d phase transitions of magnetic systems, in which the spins of the magnetic systems are treated quantum mechanically. It is related to the prototypical Ising model, where at each site of a lattice, a **spin** formula_1 represents a microscopic magnetic dipole to which the magnetic moment is either up or down. Except the coupling between magnetic dipole moments, there is also a multipolar version of Heisen...
942. ...ssical vectors (or "spins") σ, subject to the periodic boundary condition formula_4.  The Heisenberg model is a more realistic model in that it treats the spins quantum-mechanically, by replacing the **spin** by a quantum operator acting upon the tensor product formula_5, of dimension formula_6. To define it, recall the Pauli spin-1/2 matrices and for formula_10 and formula_11 denote formula_12, where for...
943. ...ic model in that it treats the spins quantum-mechanically, by replacing the spin by a quantum operator acting upon the tensor product formula_5, of dimension formula_6. To define it, recall the Pauli **spin**-1/2 matrices and for formula_10 and formula_11 denote formula_12, where formula_13 is the formula_14 identity matrix. Given a choice of real-valued coupling constants formula_15 and formula_16, the H...
944. ..., formula_20 and formula_16: if formula_22, the model is called the Heisenberg XYZ model; in the case of formula_23, it is the Heisenberg XXZ model; if formula_24, it is the Heisenberg XXX model. The **spin** 1/2 Heisenberg model in one dimension may be solved exactly using the Bethe ansatz. In the algebraic formulation, these are related to particular quantum affine algebras and elliptic quantum groups i...
945. ...magnetic. At negative formula_3 the ground state is antiferromagnetic in two and three dimensions. In one dimension the nature of correlations in the antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model depends on the **spin** of the magnetic dipoles. If the spin is integer then only short-range order is present. A system of half-integer spins exhibits quasi-long range order. A simplified version of Heisenberg model is the...
946. ...round state is antiferromagnetic in two and three dimensions. In one dimension the nature of correlations in the antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model depends on the spin of the magnetic dipoles. If the **spin** is integer then only short-range order is present. A system of half-integer spins exhibits quasi-long range order. A simplified version of Heisenberg model is the one-dimensional Ising model, where t...
947. ...also Pauli matrices which obey the Pauli matrix algebra. Under periodic boundary conditions, the transformed Hamiltonian can be shown is of a very similar form: but for the formula_34 attached to the **spin** interaction term. Assuming that there's only one critical point, we can conclude that the phase transition happens at formula_35. Following the approach of , the spectrum of the Hamiltonian for the X...
948. ...coefficients all commute, spanning a commutative subalgebra which formula_45 is an element of. The Bethe vectors are in fact simultaneous eigenvectors for the whole subalgebra. For higher spins, say **spin** formula_59, replace formula_60 with formula_61 coming from the Lie algebra representation of the Lie algebra formula_62, of dimension formula_63. The XXX Hamiltonian formula_64 is solvable by Bethe a...
949. ...la_61 coming from the Lie algebra representation of the Lie algebra formula_62, of dimension formula_63. The XXX Hamiltonian formula_64 is solvable by Bethe ansatz with Bethe equations formula_65 For **spin** formula_59 and a parameter formula_67 for the deformation from the XXX model, the BAE (Bethe ansatz equation) is formula_68 Notably, for formula_69 these are precisely the BAEs for the six-vertex mod...
950. ...teracting with the O "2p" orbitals, and one of the Mn ions has more electrons than the other. In the ground state, electrons on each Mn ion are aligned according to the Hund's rule: If O gives up its **spin**-up electron to Mn, its vacant orbital can then be filled by an electron from Mn. At the end of the process, an electron has moved between the neighboring metal ions, retaining its spin. The double-ex...
951. ...O gives up its spin-up electron to Mn, its vacant orbital can then be filled by an electron from Mn. At the end of the process, an electron has moved between the neighboring metal ions, retaining its **spin**. The double-exchange predicts that this electron movement from one species to another will be facilitated more easily if the electrons do not have to change spin direction in order to conform with Hu...
952. ...neighboring metal ions, retaining its spin. The double-exchange predicts that this electron movement from one species to another will be facilitated more easily if the electrons do not have to change **spin** direction in order to conform with Hund's rules when on the accepting species. The ability to hop (to delocalize) reduces the kinetic energy. Hence the overall energy saving can lead to ferromagnetic...
953. ...extremely high relative magnetic permeability (approximately ), and a low coercivity. Supermalloy is used in manufacturing components for radio engineering, telephony, and telemechanics instruments. **Spin** Hall effect The spin Hall effect (SHE) is a transport phenomenon predicted by Russian physicists Mikhail I. Dyakonov and Vladimir I. Perel in 1971. It consists of the appearance of spin accumulation...
954. ...ive magnetic permeability (approximately ), and a low coercivity. Supermalloy is used in manufacturing components for radio engineering, telephony, and telemechanics instruments. Spin Hall effect The **spin** Hall effect (SHE) is a transport phenomenon predicted by Russian physicists Mikhail I. Dyakonov and Vladimir I. Perel in 1971. It consists of the appearance of spin accumulation on the lateral surfac...
955. ...instruments. Spin Hall effect The spin Hall effect (SHE) is a transport phenomenon predicted by Russian physicists Mikhail I. Dyakonov and Vladimir I. Perel in 1971. It consists of the appearance of **spin** accumulation on the lateral surfaces of an electric current-carrying sample, the signs of the spin directions being opposite on the opposing boundaries. In a cylindrical wire, the current-induced sur...
956. ...ssian physicists Mikhail I. Dyakonov and Vladimir I. Perel in 1971. It consists of the appearance of spin accumulation on the lateral surfaces of an electric current-carrying sample, the signs of the **spin** directions being opposite on the opposing boundaries. In a cylindrical wire, the current-induced surface spins will wind around the wire. When the current direction is reversed, the directions of spi...
957. ...pin directions being opposite on the opposing boundaries. In a cylindrical wire, the current-induced surface spins will wind around the wire. When the current direction is reversed, the directions of **spin** orientation is also reversed. The spin Hall effect is a transport phenomenon consisting of the appearance of spin accumulation on the lateral surfaces of a sample carrying electric current. The oppos...
958. ...posing boundaries. In a cylindrical wire, the current-induced surface spins will wind around the wire. When the current direction is reversed, the directions of spin orientation is also reversed. The **spin** Hall effect is a transport phenomenon consisting of the appearance of spin accumulation on the lateral surfaces of a sample carrying electric current. The opposing surface boundaries will have spins...
959. ...will wind around the wire. When the current direction is reversed, the directions of spin orientation is also reversed. The spin Hall effect is a transport phenomenon consisting of the appearance of **spin** accumulation on the lateral surfaces of a sample carrying electric current. The opposing surface boundaries will have spins of opposite sign. It is analogous to the classical Hall effect, where "char...
960. ...l Hall effect the charge build up at the boundaries is in compensation for the Lorentz force acting on the charge carriers in the sample due to the magnetic field. No magnetic field is needed for the **spin** Hall effect which is a purely spin-based phenomenon. The spin Hall effect belongs to the same family as the anomalous Hall effect, known for a long time in ferromagnets, which also originates from sp...
961. ...t the boundaries is in compensation for the Lorentz force acting on the charge carriers in the sample due to the magnetic field. No magnetic field is needed for the spin Hall effect which is a purely **spin**-based phenomenon. The spin Hall effect belongs to the same family as the anomalous Hall effect, known for a long time in ferromagnets, which also originates from spin–orbit interaction. The spin Hall...
962. ...ensation for the Lorentz force acting on the charge carriers in the sample due to the magnetic field. No magnetic field is needed for the spin Hall effect which is a purely spin-based phenomenon. The **spin** Hall effect belongs to the same family as the anomalous Hall effect, known for a long time in ferromagnets, which also originates from spin–orbit interaction. The spin Hall effect (direct and inverse...
963. ...in Hall effect which is a purely spin-based phenomenon. The spin Hall effect belongs to the same family as the anomalous Hall effect, known for a long time in ferromagnets, which also originates from **spin**–orbit interaction. The spin Hall effect (direct and inverse) was predicted by Russian physicists Mikhail I. Dyakonov and Vladimir I. Perel in 1971. They also introduced for the first time the notion...
964. ...rely spin-based phenomenon. The spin Hall effect belongs to the same family as the anomalous Hall effect, known for a long time in ferromagnets, which also originates from spin–orbit interaction. The **spin** Hall effect (direct and inverse) was predicted by Russian physicists Mikhail I. Dyakonov and Vladimir I. Perel in 1971. They also introduced for the first time the notion of "spin current". In 1983 A...
965. ...it interaction. The spin Hall effect (direct and inverse) was predicted by Russian physicists Mikhail I. Dyakonov and Vladimir I. Perel in 1971. They also introduced for the first time the notion of "**spin** current". In 1983 Averkiev and Dyakonov proposed a way to measure the inverse spin Hall effect under optical spin orientation in semiconductors. The first experimental demonstration of the inverse sp...
966. ...physicists Mikhail I. Dyakonov and Vladimir I. Perel in 1971. They also introduced for the first time the notion of "spin current". In 1983 Averkiev and Dyakonov proposed a way to measure the inverse **spin** Hall effect under optical spin orientation in semiconductors. The first experimental demonstration of the inverse spin Hall effect, based on this idea, was performed by Bakun et al. in 1984 The term...
967. ...and Vladimir I. Perel in 1971. They also introduced for the first time the notion of "spin current". In 1983 Averkiev and Dyakonov proposed a way to measure the inverse spin Hall effect under optical **spin** orientation in semiconductors. The first experimental demonstration of the inverse spin Hall effect, based on this idea, was performed by Bakun et al. in 1984 The term "spin Hall effect" was introduc...
968. ...in current". In 1983 Averkiev and Dyakonov proposed a way to measure the inverse spin Hall effect under optical spin orientation in semiconductors. The first experimental demonstration of the inverse **spin** Hall effect, based on this idea, was performed by Bakun et al. in 1984 The term "spin Hall effect" was introduced by Hirsch who re-predicted this effect in 1999. Experimentally, the (direct) spin Hal...
969. ...Hall effect under optical spin orientation in semiconductors. The first experimental demonstration of the inverse spin Hall effect, based on this idea, was performed by Bakun et al. in 1984 The term "**spin** Hall effect" was introduced by Hirsch who re-predicted this effect in 1999. Experimentally, the (direct) spin Hall effect was observed in semiconductors more than 30 years after the original predicti...
970. ...rse spin Hall effect, based on this idea, was performed by Bakun et al. in 1984 The term "spin Hall effect" was introduced by Hirsch who re-predicted this effect in 1999. Experimentally, the (direct) **spin** Hall effect was observed in semiconductors more than 30 years after the original prediction. Two possible mechanisms give origin to the spin Hall effect, in which an electric current (composed of mov...
971. ...redicted this effect in 1999. Experimentally, the (direct) spin Hall effect was observed in semiconductors more than 30 years after the original prediction. Two possible mechanisms give origin to the **spin** Hall effect, in which an electric current (composed of moving charges) transforms into a spin current (a current of moving spins without charge flow). The original (extrinsic) mechanism devised by Dy...
972. ...miconductors more than 30 years after the original prediction. Two possible mechanisms give origin to the spin Hall effect, in which an electric current (composed of moving charges) transforms into a **spin** current (a current of moving spins without charge flow). The original (extrinsic) mechanism devised by Dyakonov and Perel consisted of spin-dependent Mott scattering, where carriers with opposite spi...
973. ...tric current (composed of moving charges) transforms into a spin current (a current of moving spins without charge flow). The original (extrinsic) mechanism devised by Dyakonov and Perel consisted of **spin**-dependent Mott scattering, where carriers with opposite spin diffuse in opposite directions when colliding with impurities in the material. The second mechanism is due to intrinsic properties of the...
974. ...pin current (a current of moving spins without charge flow). The original (extrinsic) mechanism devised by Dyakonov and Perel consisted of spin-dependent Mott scattering, where carriers with opposite **spin** diffuse in opposite directions when colliding with impurities in the material. The second mechanism is due to intrinsic properties of the material, where the carrier's trajectories are distorted due...
975. ...ffuse in opposite directions when colliding with impurities in the material. The second mechanism is due to intrinsic properties of the material, where the carrier's trajectories are distorted due to **spin**–orbit interaction as a consequence of the asymmetries in the material. One can intuitively picture the intrinsic effect by using the classical analogy between an electron and a spinning tennis ball....
976. ...also known as the Magnus effect. In a solid, the air is replaced by an effective electric field due to asymmetries in the material, the relative motion between the magnetic moment (associated to the **spin**) and the electric field creates a coupling that distorts the motion of the electrons. Similar to the standard Hall effect, both the extrinsic and the intrinsic mechanisms lead to an accumulation of s...
977. ...he motion of the electrons. Similar to the standard Hall effect, both the extrinsic and the intrinsic mechanisms lead to an accumulation of spins of opposite signs on opposing lateral boundaries. The **spin** current is described by a second-rank "tensor" , where the first index refers to the direction of flow, and the second one to the spin component that is flowing. Thus denotes the flow density of the...
978. ...n of spins of opposite signs on opposing lateral boundaries. The spin current is described by a second-rank "tensor" , where the first index refers to the direction of flow, and the second one to the **spin** component that is flowing. Thus denotes the flow density of the "y"-component of spin in the "x"-direction. Introduce also the "vector" "q" of charge flow density (which is related to the normal curr...
979. ...ibed by a second-rank "tensor" , where the first index refers to the direction of flow, and the second one to the spin component that is flowing. Thus denotes the flow density of the "y"-component of **spin** in the "x"-direction. Introduce also the "vector" "q" of charge flow density (which is related to the normal current density j="e"q), where "e" is the elementary charge. The coupling between spin and...
980. ...of spin in the "x"-direction. Introduce also the "vector" "q" of charge flow density (which is related to the normal current density j="e"q), where "e" is the elementary charge. The coupling between **spin** and charge currents is due to spin-orbit interaction. It may be described in a very simple way by introducing a single dimensionless coupling parameter "ʏ". No magnetic field is needed for spin Hall...
981. ...oduce also the "vector" "q" of charge flow density (which is related to the normal current density j="e"q), where "e" is the elementary charge. The coupling between spin and charge currents is due to **spin**-orbit interaction. It may be described in a very simple way by introducing a single dimensionless coupling parameter "ʏ". No magnetic field is needed for spin Hall effect. However, if a strong enough...
982. ...tween spin and charge currents is due to spin-orbit interaction. It may be described in a very simple way by introducing a single dimensionless coupling parameter "ʏ". No magnetic field is needed for **spin** Hall effect. However, if a strong enough magnetic field is applied in the direction perpendicular to the orientation of the spins at the surfaces, spins will precess around the direction of the magne...
983. ...ver, if a strong enough magnetic field is applied in the direction perpendicular to the orientation of the spins at the surfaces, spins will precess around the direction of the magnetic field and the **spin** Hall effect will disappear. Thus in the presence of magnetic field, the combined action of the direct and inverse spin Hall effect leads to a change of the sample resistance, an effect that is of sec...
984. ...surfaces, spins will precess around the direction of the magnetic field and the spin Hall effect will disappear. Thus in the presence of magnetic field, the combined action of the direct and inverse **spin** Hall effect leads to a change of the sample resistance, an effect that is of second order in spin-orbit interaction. This was noted by Dyakonov and Perel already in 1971 and later elaborated in more...
985. ...will disappear. Thus in the presence of magnetic field, the combined action of the direct and inverse spin Hall effect leads to a change of the sample resistance, an effect that is of second order in **spin**-orbit interaction. This was noted by Dyakonov and Perel already in 1971 and later elaborated in more detail by Dyakonov. In recent years, the spin Hall magnetoresistance was extensively studied exper...
986. ...ple resistance, an effect that is of second order in spin-orbit interaction. This was noted by Dyakonov and Perel already in 1971 and later elaborated in more detail by Dyakonov. In recent years, the **spin** Hall magnetoresistance was extensively studied experimentally both in magnetic and non-magnetic materials (heavy metals, such as Pt, Ta, Pd, where the spin-orbit interaction is strong). A transformat...
987. ...re detail by Dyakonov. In recent years, the spin Hall magnetoresistance was extensively studied experimentally both in magnetic and non-magnetic materials (heavy metals, such as Pt, Ta, Pd, where the **spin**-orbit interaction is strong). A transformation of spin currents consisting in interchanging ("swapping") of the spin and flow directions ("q" → "q") was predicted by Lifshits and Dyakonov. Thus a flo...
988. ...agnetoresistance was extensively studied experimentally both in magnetic and non-magnetic materials (heavy metals, such as Pt, Ta, Pd, where the spin-orbit interaction is strong). A transformation of **spin** currents consisting in interchanging ("swapping") of the spin and flow directions ("q" → "q") was predicted by Lifshits and Dyakonov. Thus a flow in the "x"-direction of spins polarized along "y" is...
989. ...n magnetic and non-magnetic materials (heavy metals, such as Pt, Ta, Pd, where the spin-orbit interaction is strong). A transformation of spin currents consisting in interchanging ("swapping") of the **spin** and flow directions ("q" → "q") was predicted by Lifshits and Dyakonov. Thus a flow in the "x"-direction of spins polarized along "y" is transformed to a flow in the "y"-direction of spins polarized...
990. ...x"-direction of spins polarized along "y" is transformed to a flow in the "y"-direction of spins polarized along "x". This prediction has yet not been confirmed experimentally. The direct and inverse **spin** Hall effect can be monitored by optical means. The spin accumulation induces circular polarization of the emitted light, as well as the Faraday (or Kerr) polarization rotation of the transmitted (or...
991. ...to a flow in the "y"-direction of spins polarized along "x". This prediction has yet not been confirmed experimentally. The direct and inverse spin Hall effect can be monitored by optical means. The **spin** accumulation induces circular polarization of the emitted light, as well as the Faraday (or Kerr) polarization rotation of the transmitted (or reflected) light. Observing the polarization of emitted...
992. ...uces circular polarization of the emitted light, as well as the Faraday (or Kerr) polarization rotation of the transmitted (or reflected) light. Observing the polarization of emitted light allows the **spin** Hall effect to be observed. More recently, the existence of both direct and inverse effects was demonstrated not only in semiconductors, but also in metals. The spin Hall effect can be used to manipu...
993. ...ation of emitted light allows the spin Hall effect to be observed. More recently, the existence of both direct and inverse effects was demonstrated not only in semiconductors, but also in metals. The **spin** Hall effect can be used to manipulate electron spins electrically. For example, in combination with the electric stirring effect, the spin Hall effect leads to spin polarization in a localized conduc...
994. ...nstrated not only in semiconductors, but also in metals. The spin Hall effect can be used to manipulate electron spins electrically. For example, in combination with the electric stirring effect, the **spin** Hall effect leads to spin polarization in a localized conducting region. For a review of spin Hall effect, see for example:  Current density In electromagnetism, current density is the amount of char...
995. ...onductors, but also in metals. The spin Hall effect can be used to manipulate electron spins electrically. For example, in combination with the electric stirring effect, the spin Hall effect leads to **spin** polarization in a localized conducting region. For a review of spin Hall effect, see for example:  Current density In electromagnetism, current density is the amount of charge per unit time that flow...
996. ...anipulate electron spins electrically. For example, in combination with the electric stirring effect, the spin Hall effect leads to spin polarization in a localized conducting region. For a review of **spin** Hall effect, see for example:  Current density In electromagnetism, current density is the amount of charge per unit time that flows through a unit area of a chosen cross section. The current density...
997. ...ttering process. Bhabha scattering is named after the Indian physicist Homi J. Bhabha. The Bhabha scattering rate is used as a luminosity monitor in electron-positron colliders. To leading order, the **spin**-averaged differential cross section for this process is where "s","t", and "u" are the Mandelstam variables, formula_3 is the fine-structure constant, and formula_4 is the scattering angle. This cros...
998. ...much more likely to find a self-crossing trajectory in low dimensions, the weak localization effect manifests itself much more strongly in low-dimensional systems (films and wires). In a system with **spin**–orbit coupling, the spin of a carrier is coupled to its momentum. The spin of the carrier rotates as it goes around a self-intersecting path, and the direction of this rotation is opposite for the tw...
999. ...a self-crossing trajectory in low dimensions, the weak localization effect manifests itself much more strongly in low-dimensional systems (films and wires). In a system with spin–orbit coupling, the **spin** of a carrier is coupled to its momentum. The spin of the carrier rotates as it goes around a self-intersecting path, and the direction of this rotation is opposite for the two directions about the lo...
1000. ...weak localization effect manifests itself much more strongly in low-dimensional systems (films and wires). In a system with spin–orbit coupling, the spin of a carrier is coupled to its momentum. The **spin** of the carrier rotates as it goes around a self-intersecting path, and the direction of this rotation is opposite for the two directions about the loop. Because of this, the two paths along any loop...
1001. ...rimentally relevant quantities: Where the characteristic fields are: Where formula_10 is potential scattering, formula_11 is inelastic scattering, formula_12 is magnetic scattering, and formula_13 is **spin**-orbit scattering. For a non-magnetic sample (formula_14), this can be rewritten: formula_18 is the digamma function. formula_19 is the phase coherence characteristic field, which is roughly the magne...
1002. ...an be rewritten: formula_18 is the digamma function. formula_19 is the phase coherence characteristic field, which is roughly the magnetic field required to destroy phase coherence, formula_20 is the **spin**–orbit characteristic field which can be considered a measure of the strength of the spin–orbit interaction and formula_21 is the elastic characteristic field. The characteristic fields are better und...
1003. ...aracteristic field, which is roughly the magnetic field required to destroy phase coherence, formula_20 is the spin–orbit characteristic field which can be considered a measure of the strength of the **spin**–orbit interaction and formula_21 is the elastic characteristic field. The characteristic fields are better understood in terms of their corresponding characteristic lengths which are deduced from for...
1004. ...re deduced from formula_22. formula_23 can then be understood as the distance traveled by an electron before it loses phase coherence, formula_24 can be thought of as the distance traveled before the **spin** of the electron undergoes the effect of the spin–orbit interaction, and finally formula_25 is the mean free path.  In the limit of strong spin–orbit coupling formula_26, the equation above reduces to...
1005. ...e understood as the distance traveled by an electron before it loses phase coherence, formula_24 can be thought of as the distance traveled before the spin of the electron undergoes the effect of the **spin**–orbit interaction, and finally formula_25 is the mean free path.  In the limit of strong spin–orbit coupling formula_26, the equation above reduces to: In this equation formula_28 is -1 for weak anti...
1006. ...24 can be thought of as the distance traveled before the spin of the electron undergoes the effect of the spin–orbit interaction, and finally formula_25 is the mean free path.  In the limit of strong **spin**–orbit coupling formula_26, the equation above reduces to: In this equation formula_28 is -1 for weak antilocalization and +1/2 for weak localization. The strength of either weak localization or weak...
1007. ...es of amorphous magnetic phases are asperomagnetism, speromagnetism and sperimagnetism, which correspond to ferromagnetism, antiferromagnetism and ferrimagnetism, respectively, of crystalline solids. **Spin** glass models can present these amorphous types of magnetism. Due to random frustration, amorphous magnets possess many nearly degenerate ground states. The terms for the amorphous magnetic phases wer...
1008. ...and right handed spirals coexist. For these itinerant helimagnets, the direction of the helicity can be controlled by applied electric currents and magnetic fields. Mictomagnetism Mictomagnetism is a **spin** system in which various exchange interactions are mixed. It is observed in several kinds of alloys, including Cu–Mn, Fe–Al and Ni–Mn alloys. Cooled in zero magnetic field, these materials have low re...
1009. ...y. In each Landau level the cyclotron and Zeeman energies and the number of electron states ("eB"/"h") all increase linearly with increasing magnetic field. Thus, as the magnetic field increases, the **spin**-split Landau levels move to higher energy. As each energy level passes through the Fermi energy, it depopulates as the electrons become free to flow as current. This causes the material's transport a...
1010. ...ween two levels. Shubnikov–De Haas oscillations can be used to determine the two-dimensional electron density of a sample. For a given magnetic flux formula_7 the maximum number "D" of electrons with **spin** "S" = 1/2 per Landau level is Upon insertion of the expressions for the flux quantum and for the magnetic flux relationship () reads Let "N" denote the maximum number of states per unit area, so and...
1011. ...ace from the normal state material at energies less than the superconducting energy gap. The incident electron forms a Cooper pair in the superconductor with the retroreflection of a hole of opposite **spin** and velocity but equal momentum to the incident electron, as seen in the figure. The barrier transparency is assumed to be high, with no oxide or tunnel layer which reduces instances of normal electr...
1012. ...ansparency is assumed to be high, with no oxide or tunnel layer which reduces instances of normal electron-electron or hole-hole scattering at the interface. Since the pair consists of an up and down **spin** electron, a second electron of opposite spin to the incident electron from the normal state forms the pair in the superconductor, and hence the retroreflected hole. Through time-reversal symmetry, th...
1013. ...de or tunnel layer which reduces instances of normal electron-electron or hole-hole scattering at the interface. Since the pair consists of an up and down spin electron, a second electron of opposite **spin** to the incident electron from the normal state forms the pair in the superconductor, and hence the retroreflected hole. Through time-reversal symmetry, the process with an incident electron will also...
1014. ...tor, and hence the retroreflected hole. Through time-reversal symmetry, the process with an incident electron will also work with an incident hole (and retroreflected electron). The process is highly **spin**-dependent – if only one spin band is occupied by the conduction electrons in the normal-state material ("i.e." it is fully spin-polarized), Andreev reflection will be inhibited due to inability to fo...
1015. ...cted hole. Through time-reversal symmetry, the process with an incident electron will also work with an incident hole (and retroreflected electron). The process is highly spin-dependent – if only one **spin** band is occupied by the conduction electrons in the normal-state material ("i.e." it is fully spin-polarized), Andreev reflection will be inhibited due to inability to form a pair in the superconduct...
1016. ...h an incident hole (and retroreflected electron). The process is highly spin-dependent – if only one spin band is occupied by the conduction electrons in the normal-state material ("i.e." it is fully **spin**-polarized), Andreev reflection will be inhibited due to inability to form a pair in the superconductor and impossibility of single-particle transmission. In a ferromagnet or material where spin-polar...
1017. ...fully spin-polarized), Andreev reflection will be inhibited due to inability to form a pair in the superconductor and impossibility of single-particle transmission. In a ferromagnet or material where **spin**-polarization exists or may be induced by a magnetic field, the strength of the Andreev reflection (and hence conductance of the junction) is a function of the spin-polarization in the normal state. T...
1018. ...In a ferromagnet or material where spin-polarization exists or may be induced by a magnetic field, the strength of the Andreev reflection (and hence conductance of the junction) is a function of the **spin**-polarization in the normal state. The spin-dependence of Andreev reflection gives rise to the Point contact Andreev reflection technique, whereby a narrow superconducting tip (often niobium, antimony...
1019. ...larization exists or may be induced by a magnetic field, the strength of the Andreev reflection (and hence conductance of the junction) is a function of the spin-polarization in the normal state. The **spin**-dependence of Andreev reflection gives rise to the Point contact Andreev reflection technique, whereby a narrow superconducting tip (often niobium, antimony or lead) is placed into contact with a nor...
1020. ...into contact with a normal material at temperatures below the critical temperature of the tip. By applying a voltage to the tip, and measuring differential conductance between it and the sample, the **spin** polarization of the normal metal at that point (and magnetic field) may be determined. This is of use in such tasks as measurement of spin-polarized currents or characterizing spin polarization of ma...
1021. ...ring differential conductance between it and the sample, the spin polarization of the normal metal at that point (and magnetic field) may be determined. This is of use in such tasks as measurement of **spin**-polarized currents or characterizing spin polarization of material layers or bulk samples, and the effects of magnetic fields on such properties. In an Andreev process, the phase difference between t...
1022. ...nd the sample, the spin polarization of the normal metal at that point (and magnetic field) may be determined. This is of use in such tasks as measurement of spin-polarized currents or characterizing **spin** polarization of material layers or bulk samples, and the effects of magnetic fields on such properties. In an Andreev process, the phase difference between the electron and hole is −π/2 plus the phas...
1023. ...ly separated normal lead with the same charge transfer as in a normal Andreev reflection process to a Cooper pair in the superconductor. For crossed Andreev reflection to occur, electrons of opposite **spin** must exist at each normal electrode (so as to form the pair in the superconductor). If the normal material is a ferromagnet this may be guaranteed by creating opposite spin polarization via the appli...
1024. ...cur, electrons of opposite spin must exist at each normal electrode (so as to form the pair in the superconductor). If the normal material is a ferromagnet this may be guaranteed by creating opposite **spin** polarization via the application of a magnetic field to normal electrodes of differing coercivity. Crossed Andreev reflection occurs in competition with elastic cotunneling, the quantum mechanical tu...
1025. ...occurs in competition with elastic cotunneling, the quantum mechanical tunneling of electrons between the normal leads via an intermediate state in the superconductor. This process conserves electron **spin**. As such, a detectable potential at one electrode on the application of current to the other may be masked by the competing elastic cotunneling process, making clear detection difficult. In addition,...
1026. ...aas–Van Alphen and Shubnikov–de Haas effects. Landau quantization is a key ingredient in explanation of the integer quantum Hall effect. Consider a system of non-interacting particles with charge and **spin** confined to an area in the plane. Apply a uniform magnetic field formula_1 along the -axis. In SI units, the Hamiltonian of this system (here, the effects of spin are neglected) is formula_2 Here, fo...
1027. ...nteracting particles with charge and spin confined to an area in the plane. Apply a uniform magnetic field formula_1 along the -axis. In SI units, the Hamiltonian of this system (here, the effects of **spin** are neglected) is formula_2 Here, formula_3 is the canonical momentum operator and formula_4 is the operator for the electromagnetic vector potential formula_5 (in position space formula_6). The vect...
1028. ...imply written as a ratio of fluxes, formula_67 where formula_68 is the fundamental magnetic flux quantum and formula_69 is the flux through the system (with area formula_70). Thus, for particles with **spin** formula_71, the maximum number formula_72 of particles per Landau level is formula_73 which for electrons (where formula_74 and formula_75) gives formula_76, two available states for each flux quantu...
1029. ..., leading to oscillations in various electronic properties (see De Haas–Van Alphen effect and Shubnikov–de Haas effect). If Zeeman splitting is included, each Landau level splits into a pair, one for **spin** up electrons and the other for spin down electrons. Then the occupation of each spin Landau level is just the ratio of fluxes formula_79. Zeeman splitting has a significant effect on the Landau level...
1030. ...electronic properties (see De Haas–Van Alphen effect and Shubnikov–de Haas effect). If Zeeman splitting is included, each Landau level splits into a pair, one for spin up electrons and the other for **spin** down electrons. Then the occupation of each spin Landau level is just the ratio of fluxes formula_79. Zeeman splitting has a significant effect on the Landau levels because their energy scales are th...
1031. ...fect and Shubnikov–de Haas effect). If Zeeman splitting is included, each Landau level splits into a pair, one for spin up electrons and the other for spin down electrons. Then the occupation of each **spin** Landau level is just the ratio of fluxes formula_79. Zeeman splitting has a significant effect on the Landau levels because their energy scales are the same, formula_80. However, the Fermi energy and...
1032. ...ld, can be analytically solved. The energies are given by formula_97 where "c" is the speed of light, the sign depends on the particle-antiparticle component and "ν" is a non-negative integer. Due to **spin**, all levels are degenerate except for the ground state at . The massless 2D case can be simulated in single-layer materials like graphene near the Dirac cones, where the eigenergies are given by  for...
1033. ...nd co-workers showed in 1998 that, in agreement with the König's theorem, the quantum potential can be identified with the kinetic energy of the internal motion ("zitterbewegung") associated with the **spin** of a spin-1/2 particle observed in a center-of-mass frame. More specifically, they showed that the internal "zitterbewegung" velocity for a spinning, non-relativistic particle of constant spin with n...
1034. ...ers showed in 1998 that, in agreement with the König's theorem, the quantum potential can be identified with the kinetic energy of the internal motion ("zitterbewegung") associated with the spin of a **spin**-1/2 particle observed in a center-of-mass frame. More specifically, they showed that the internal "zitterbewegung" velocity for a spinning, non-relativistic particle of constant spin with no precessi...
1035. ...th the spin of a spin-1/2 particle observed in a center-of-mass frame. More specifically, they showed that the internal "zitterbewegung" velocity for a spinning, non-relativistic particle of constant **spin** with no precession, and in absence of an external field, has the squared value: from which the second term is shown to be of negligible size; then with formula_53 it follows that Salesi gave further...
1036. ...ich the second term is shown to be of negligible size; then with formula_53 it follows that Salesi gave further details on this work in 2009. In 1999, Salvatore Esposito generalized their result from **spin**-1/2 particles to particles of arbitrary spin, confirming the interpretation of the quantum potential as a kinetic energy for an internal motion. Esposito showed that (using the notation formula_55=1)...
1037. ...ble size; then with formula_53 it follows that Salesi gave further details on this work in 2009. In 1999, Salvatore Esposito generalized their result from spin-1/2 particles to particles of arbitrary **spin**, confirming the interpretation of the quantum potential as a kinetic energy for an internal motion. Esposito showed that (using the notation formula_55=1) the quantum potential can be written as: and...
1038. ...l interpretation of quantum mechanics can be reformulated in terms of a particle velocity where the "drift velocity" is and the "relative velocity" is formula_59, with and formula_61 representing the **spin** direction of the particle. In this formulation, according to Esposito, quantum mechanics must necessarily be interpreted in probabilistic terms, for the reason that a system's initial motion conditio...
1039. ...antum effects present in the Schrödinger equation are due to the presence of a peculiar spatial direction associated with the particle that, assuming the isotropy of space, can be identified with the **spin** of the particle itself". Esposito generalized it from matter particles to gauge particles, in particular photons, for which he showed that, if modelled as formula_62, with probability function formul...
1040. ...eciprocal transformation from the Hamilton-Jacobi equation of classical mechanics to the time-dependent Schrödinger equation of quantum mechanics which arises from a gauge transformation representing **spin**, under the simple requirement of conservation of probability. This spin-dependent transformation is a function of the quantum potential. B. Hiley and R. E. Callaghan re-interpret the role of the Bohm...
1041. ...mechanics to the time-dependent Schrödinger equation of quantum mechanics which arises from a gauge transformation representing spin, under the simple requirement of conservation of probability. This **spin**-dependent transformation is a function of the quantum potential. B. Hiley and R. E. Callaghan re-interpret the role of the Bohm model and its notion of quantum potential in the framework of Clifford...
1042. ...particular representation in terms of a wave function nor requiring reference to an external Hilbert space. Consistent with earlier results, the quantum potential of a non-relativistic particle with **spin** (Pauli particle) is shown to have an additional spin-dependent term, and the momentum of a relativistic particle with spin (Dirac particle) is shown to consist in a linear motion and a rotational par...
1043. ...n nor requiring reference to an external Hilbert space. Consistent with earlier results, the quantum potential of a non-relativistic particle with spin (Pauli particle) is shown to have an additional **spin**-dependent term, and the momentum of a relativistic particle with spin (Dirac particle) is shown to consist in a linear motion and a rotational part. The two dynamical equations governing the time evo...
1044. ...h earlier results, the quantum potential of a non-relativistic particle with spin (Pauli particle) is shown to have an additional spin-dependent term, and the momentum of a relativistic particle with **spin** (Dirac particle) is shown to consist in a linear motion and a rotational part. The two dynamical equations governing the time evolution are re-interpreted as conservation equations. One of them stand...
1045. ...cal equations governing the time evolution are re-interpreted as conservation equations. One of them stands for the conservation of energy; the other stands for the conservation of probability and of **spin**. The quantum potential plays the role of an internal energy which ensures the conservation of total energy. Bohm and Hiley demonstrated that the non-locality of quantum theory can be understood as li...
1046. ...g from the space representation of the field coordinate, a causal interpretation of the Schrödinger picture of relativistic quantum theory has been constructed. The Schrödinger picture for a neutral, **spin** 0, massless field formula_79, with formula_80 real-valued functionals, can be shown to lead to This has been called the superquantum potential by Bohm and his co-workers. Basil Hiley showed that the...
1047. ...while Jack Dylan Grazer and Adam Brody portray him in the DC Extended Universe. After Fawcett Comics' success with their first superhero character, Captain Marvel, the company decided to introduce a **spin**-off character. Although Captain Marvel had been given part-time sidekicks in the form of the look-alike Lieutenant Marvels in "Whiz Comics" #21 (September 1941), Fawcett Comics editor Ed Herron wante...
1048. ...ain Marvel had been given part-time sidekicks in the form of the look-alike Lieutenant Marvels in "Whiz Comics" #21 (September 1941), Fawcett Comics editor Ed Herron wanted to introduce a distinctive **spin**-off character. Captain Marvel transformed from teenage boy to adult superhero with a magic word; Herron decided his new character would remain a teenager to differentiate him from Captain Marvel. Faw...
1049. ...a saturation in strain relaxation due to strain hardening. Strain engineering has been well-studied in complex oxide systems, in which epitaxial strain can strongly influence the coupling between the **spin**, charge, and orbital degrees of freedom, and thereby impact the electrical and magnetic properties. Epitaxial strain has been shown to induce metal-insulator transitions and shift the Curie temperatu...
1050. ...nt of the electron was made by the group of Gerald Gabrielse at Harvard University, using a single electron caught in a Penning trap. The difference between the electron's cyclotron frequency and its **spin** precession frequency in a magnetic field is proportional to "g"−2. An extremely high precision measurement of the quantized energies of the cyclotron orbits, or "Landau levels", of the electron, comp...
1051. ...g"−2. An extremely high precision measurement of the quantized energies of the cyclotron orbits, or "Landau levels", of the electron, compared to the quantized energies of the electron's two possible **spin** orientations, gives a value for the electron's spin "g"-factor: a precision of better than one part in a trillion. (The digits in parentheses indicate the standard uncertainty in the last listed digi...
1052. ...quantized energies of the cyclotron orbits, or "Landau levels", of the electron, compared to the quantized energies of the electron's two possible spin orientations, gives a value for the electron's **spin** "g"-factor: a precision of better than one part in a trillion. (The digits in parentheses indicate the standard uncertainty in the last listed digits of the measurement.) The current state-of-the-art...
1053. ...ic dipole moment of the muon. The "g"-factor of the muon is extracted using the same physical principle as for the electron above – namely, that the difference between the cyclotron frequency and the **spin** precession frequency in a magnetic field is proportional to "g"−2. The most precise measurement comes from Brookhaven National Laboratory's muon g−2 experiment, in which polarized muons are stored in...
1054. ...n a magnetic field is proportional to "g"−2. The most precise measurement comes from Brookhaven National Laboratory's muon g−2 experiment, in which polarized muons are stored in a cyclotron and their **spin** orientation is measured by the direction of their decay electrons. As of February 2007, the current world average muon "g"-factor measurement is, a precision of better than one part in a billion. The...
1055. ...ydberg constant to extract "α". The result is, Hyperfine splitting is a splitting in the energy levels of an atom caused by the interaction between the magnetic moment of the nucleus and the combined **spin** and orbital magnetic moment of the electron. The hyperfine splitting in hydrogen, measured using Ramsey's hydrogen maser, is known with great precision. Unfortunately, the influence of the proton's i...
1056. ...pared to their original Fermi energy "E". The temperature below which such gaps form is known as the Peierls transition temperature, "T". The electron spins are spatially modulated to form a standing **spin** wave in a spin density wave (SDW). A SDW can be viewed as two CDWs for the spin-up and spin-down subbands, whose charge modulations are 180° out-of-phase. In 1954, Herbert Fröhlich proposed a microsc...
1057. ...original Fermi energy "E". The temperature below which such gaps form is known as the Peierls transition temperature, "T". The electron spins are spatially modulated to form a standing spin wave in a **spin** density wave (SDW). A SDW can be viewed as two CDWs for the spin-up and spin-down subbands, whose charge modulations are 180° out-of-phase. In 1954, Herbert Fröhlich proposed a microscopic theory, in...
1058. ...form is known as the Peierls transition temperature, "T". The electron spins are spatially modulated to form a standing spin wave in a spin density wave (SDW). A SDW can be viewed as two CDWs for the **spin**-up and spin-down subbands, whose charge modulations are 180° out-of-phase. In 1954, Herbert Fröhlich proposed a microscopic theory, in which energy gaps at ±"k" would form below a transition temperat...
1059. ...n as the Peierls transition temperature, "T". The electron spins are spatially modulated to form a standing spin wave in a spin density wave (SDW). A SDW can be viewed as two CDWs for the spin-up and **spin**-down subbands, whose charge modulations are 180° out-of-phase. In 1954, Herbert Fröhlich proposed a microscopic theory, in which energy gaps at ±"k" would form below a transition temperature as a res...
1060. ...momenta of the electrons in the material along the axis of magnetization. These measurements also allow the separation of the two contributions to the magnetization: that which is associated with the **spin** and with the orbital motion of the electrons. The effect also demonstrated the close relation between the notions of angular momentum in classical and in quantum physics. The effect was predicted by...
1061. ...ss of the particle, while formula_4 is the angular momentum of the motion (SI units are used). In contrast, the intrinsic magnetic moment of the electron is related to its intrinsic angular momentum (**spin**) as formula_5 (see Landé "g"-factor and anomalous magnetic dipole moment). If a number of electrons in a unit volume of the material have a total orbital angular momentum of formula_6 with respect to...
1062. ...ctrons in a unit volume of the material have a total orbital angular momentum of formula_6 with respect to a certain axis, their magnetic moments would produce the magnetization of formula_7. For the **spin** contribution the relation would be formula_8. A change in magnetization, formula_9 implies a proportional change in the angular momentum, formula_10 of the electrons involved. Provided that there is...
1063. ...he quantity formula_18 is called gyromagnetic ratio. The expected effect and a possible experimental approach was first described by Owen Willans Richardson in a paper published in 1908. The electron **spin** was discovered in 1925, therefore only the orbital motion of electrons was considered before that. Richardson derived the expected relation of formula_19. The paper mentioned the ongoing attempts to...
1064. ...demonstrated that the gyromagnetic ratio for iron is indeed close to formula_25 rather than formula_26. This phenomenon, dubbed "gyromagnetic anomaly" was finally explained after the discovery of the **spin** and introduction of the Dirac equation in 1928. The experimental equipment was later donated by Geertruida de Haas-Lorentz, wife of de Haas and daughter of Lorentz, to the Ampère Museum in Lyon Franc...
1065. ...projections of the pseudovectors formula_28 and formula_29 onto the magnetization axis and omit the formula_30 sign). The magnetization and the angular momentum consist of the contributions from the **spin** and the orbital angular momentum: formula_31, formula_32. Using the known relations formula_33, and formula_34, where formula_35 is the g-factor for the anomalous magnetic moment of the electron, one...
1066. ...momentum: formula_31, formula_32. Using the known relations formula_33, and formula_34, where formula_35 is the g-factor for the anomalous magnetic moment of the electron, one can derive the relative **spin** contribution to magnetization as: formula_36. For pure iron the measured value is formula_37, and formula_38. Therefore, in pure iron 96% of the magnetization is provided by the polarization of the e...
1067. ...ational conference at the University of California at Santa Barbara in 2003 and the state of the art as of that date can be seen in the proceedings of that conference, published by Birkhäuser Verlag. **Spin**-stabilized magnetic levitation Spin-stabilized magnetic levitation is a phenomenon of magnetic levitation whereby a spinning magnet or array of magnets (typically as a top) is levitated via magnetic...
1068. ...of California at Santa Barbara in 2003 and the state of the art as of that date can be seen in the proceedings of that conference, published by Birkhäuser Verlag. Spin-stabilized magnetic levitation **Spin**-stabilized magnetic levitation is a phenomenon of magnetic levitation whereby a spinning magnet or array of magnets (typically as a top) is levitated via magnetic forces above another magnet or array...
1069. ...c levitation whereby a spinning magnet or array of magnets (typically as a top) is levitated via magnetic forces above another magnet or array of magnets, and stabilised by gyroscopic effect due to a **spin** rate that is neither too fast, nor too slow to allow for a necessary precession. The phenomenon was originally discovered through invention by Vermont inventor Roy M. Harrigan in the 1970s. On May 3,...
1070. ...marketed levitating toy tops sold under the brand name, 'Levitron'. In 2012 and 2014 Max Michaelis reported operating Levitron brand magnetic tops at inclination angles of 45° and 90° (i.e. with the **spin** axis, horizontal) after employing novel configurations for the supporting magnetic fields. Earnshaw's theorem does not allow for a static configuration of permanent magnets to stably levitate another...
1071. ...devices consisting of a properly configured magnetic base and corresponding magnetic top, however, because the non-static nature of the spinning magnetic top within a threshold of lower and upper RPM **spin** rates acts as a balanced precessing gyroscope to prevent the poles of its magnetic field from fully aligning themselves in the same direction as those of the primary supporting toroidal field of the...
1072. ...f its magnetic field from fully aligning themselves in the same direction as those of the primary supporting toroidal field of the magnetic base (i.e.: via the top flipping). In a vertical orientated **spin** axis configuration this gyroscopic property with its necessary precession allows it to keep its field in an oppositional orientation by responding dynamically to the field direction of the central ma...
1073. ...g the top to stay hovering while resting in an energy minimum well. (see: magnetic levitation) In the laboratory, experimental setups are able to levitate tops for indefinite periods by measuring the **spin** rate and maintaining it using a drive coil. However, variations in temperature can affect the stability, and without ambient temperature control the top will eventually fall after hours or days due t...
1074. ...the top will eventually fall after hours or days due to the temperature coefficient of the magnets. The physics of the magnetic stability is similar to magnetic gradient traps. Inclined or horizontal **spin** axis levitation is accomplished by superposing a "macro-trap" on the precessional "micro-trap" first described by Sir Michael Berry and Simon, Heflinger and Ridgway. The macro-trap is generated by a...
1075. ...ign based on the vibration of rubidium atoms was demonstrated by NIST in 2019. Like other caesium atomic clocks, the clock keeps time by a precise 9.192631770 GHz microwave signal emitted by electron **spin** transitions between two hyperfine energy levels in atoms of caesium-133. A feedback mechanism keeps a quartz crystal oscillator on the chip locked to this frequency, which is divided down by digital...
1076. ...ed by Andrew M. Hoff, Richard Gilbert, Richard Heller, Mark J. Jaroszeski from University of South Florida in 2010. This device is dedicated to deliver a molecule into a tissue using electroporation. **Spin** Crossover complexes are formed by transition metal ions. They can switch between high spin and low spin which leads to changes of magnetic, optical, mechanical properties and more. Dielectrophoresis...
1077. ...f South Florida in 2010. This device is dedicated to deliver a molecule into a tissue using electroporation. Spin Crossover complexes are formed by transition metal ions. They can switch between high **spin** and low spin which leads to changes of magnetic, optical, mechanical properties and more. Dielectrophoresis (DEP) is used to perform molecular spin-state switching. It organizes nano-objects between...
1078. ...da in 2010. This device is dedicated to deliver a molecule into a tissue using electroporation. Spin Crossover complexes are formed by transition metal ions. They can switch between high spin and low **spin** which leads to changes of magnetic, optical, mechanical properties and more. Dielectrophoresis (DEP) is used to perform molecular spin-state switching. It organizes nano-objects between the electrode...
1079. ...transition metal ions. They can switch between high spin and low spin which leads to changes of magnetic, optical, mechanical properties and more. Dielectrophoresis (DEP) is used to perform molecular **spin**-state switching. It organizes nano-objects between the electrodes. DEP force aligns the SCO nanorods with the direction of electric field applied. Electromanipulation of spin crossover nanorods is a...
1080. ...sed to perform molecular spin-state switching. It organizes nano-objects between the electrodes. DEP force aligns the SCO nanorods with the direction of electric field applied. Electromanipulation of **spin** crossover nanorods is a new field of electromanipulation that are possible building block techniques for nano electronic devices. Electromanipulation of droplets refers to using electric fields to mo...
1081. ...r Gerry Conway and artist John Buscema) in a self-titled series in January 1977, at first written by Gerry Conway and later by Chris Claremont. In the series, she is the editor of "Women Magazine", a **spin**-off of the "Daily Bugle". It is revealed that the energy exposure from the explosion of a device called the "Psyche-Magnetron" caused Danvers's genetic structure to meld with Captain Marvel's, effect...
1082. ...legend means to Danvers, how she will wield it, and how the rest of the Marvel Universe reacts. Danvers also rejoined the main Avengers team as Captain Marvel in volume 5 of "The Avengers" and in the **spin**-off series, "Avengers Assemble", also written by DeConnick. Editor Lauren Sankovitch said that Marvel editors liked DeConnick's work and that adding her to the team would "get some lady power in the...
1083. ...oud 9 walk in on a depowered Komodo holding Baron Von Blitzschlag at gunpoint. They take her gun away but only so she does not shoot Hardball before he can inject her with something that inhibits the **SPIN** Tech in her bloodstream. Cloud 9 then gets Komodo to listen to Hardball explain his actions by mentioning how Hardball aided the Shadow Initiative. Before they talk, Baron Von Blitzschlag surrenders...
1084. ...which compensates changes in ambient magnetic fields. Whereas chemical shifts are important in NMR, they are insignificant in the Earth's field. The absence of chemical shifts causes features such as **spin**–spin multiplets (separated by high fields) to be superimposed in EFNMR. Instead, EFNMR spectra are dominated by spin–spin coupling (J-coupling) effects. Software optimised for analysing these spectra...
1085. ...compensates changes in ambient magnetic fields. Whereas chemical shifts are important in NMR, they are insignificant in the Earth's field. The absence of chemical shifts causes features such as spin–**spin** multiplets (separated by high fields) to be superimposed in EFNMR. Instead, EFNMR spectra are dominated by spin–spin coupling (J-coupling) effects. Software optimised for analysing these spectra can...
1086. ...icant in the Earth's field. The absence of chemical shifts causes features such as spin–spin multiplets (separated by high fields) to be superimposed in EFNMR. Instead, EFNMR spectra are dominated by **spin**–spin coupling (J-coupling) effects. Software optimised for analysing these spectra can provide useful information about the structure of the molecules in the sample. Applications of EFNMR include: Th...
1087. ...in the Earth's field. The absence of chemical shifts causes features such as spin–spin multiplets (separated by high fields) to be superimposed in EFNMR. Instead, EFNMR spectra are dominated by spin–**spin** coupling (J-coupling) effects. Software optimised for analysing these spectra can provide useful information about the structure of the molecules in the sample. Applications of EFNMR include: The adv...
1088. ...gnetic brakes. Recent design innovations have led to the application of electromagnetic brakes to aircraft applications. In this application, a combination motor/generator is used first as a motor to **spin** the tires up to speed prior to touchdown, thus reducing wear on the tires, and then as a generator to provide regenerative braking. A friction-plate brake uses a single plate friction surface to enga...
1089. ...mediates the magnetic input have been proposed: In the radical pair mechanism photopigments absorb a photon, which elevates it to the singlet state. They form singlet radical pairs with antiparallel **spin**, which, by singlet–triplet interconversion, may turn into triplet pairs with parallel spin. Because the magnetic field alters the transition between spin state the amount of triplets depends on how t...
1090. ...s absorb a photon, which elevates it to the singlet state. They form singlet radical pairs with antiparallel spin, which, by singlet–triplet interconversion, may turn into triplet pairs with parallel **spin**. Because the magnetic field alters the transition between spin state the amount of triplets depends on how the photopigment is aligned within the magnetic field. Cryptochromes, a class of photopigmen...
1091. ...form singlet radical pairs with antiparallel spin, which, by singlet–triplet interconversion, may turn into triplet pairs with parallel spin. Because the magnetic field alters the transition between **spin** state the amount of triplets depends on how the photopigment is aligned within the magnetic field. Cryptochromes, a class of photopigments known from plants and animals appear to be the receptor mole...
1092. ...ors. The proximity effect enhancement of formula_2 is largest when the normal material is a metal with a large diffusivity rather than an insulator (I). Proximity-effect suppression of formula_2 in a **spin**-singlet superconductor is largest when the normal material is ferromagnetic, as the presence of the internal magnetic field weakens superconductivity (Cooper pairs breaking). The study of S/N, S/I an...
1093. ...tween 89-93% of the energy is stored. A turbine is a set of blades that are forced to turn by an external energy source. When the blades start turning, the shaft to which they are connected starts to **spin**, and the generator then creates electricity. Examples of external forces that can power turbines include wind, water, steam, and gas. Turbines can be used in creating a continual power system because...
1094. ...or devices are manufactured with the material, as the dislocation density associated with the crystals is a detriment to their carrier lifetime. Morin transition The Morin transition (also known as a **spin**-flop transition) is a magnetic phase transition in α-FeO hematite where the antiferromagnetic ordering is reorganized from being aligned perpendicular to the c-axis to be aligned parallel to the c-ax...
1095. ...e strength of the chains depends on the strength of the magnetic field. If there is not a magnetic field being applied to the powder, then powder is free floating. In this state the clutch is able to **spin** freely without any engagement of the input shaft to the output shaft. Magnetic particle clutches have made equipment control easier while also prolonging life of machine components.   In the late 197...
1096. ...ries the phase can have a discontinuous jump. Correspondingly, a vortex placed onto such a boundary acquires a fractional phase winding hence the term fractional vortex. A similar situation occurs in **Spin**-1 Bose condensate, where a vortex with formula_8 phase winding can exist if it is combined with a domain of overturned spins. (ii) A different situation occurs in uniform multicomponent superconducto...
1097. ...ortex has a topological change of and carries the flux . Splintered vortices were first observed at the asymmetric 45° grain boundaries between two d-wave superconductors YBaCuO. In certain states of **spin**-1 superfluids or Bose condensates, the condensate wavefunction is invariant if the superfluid phase changes by formula_20, along with a formula_20 rotation of spin angle. This is in contrast to the f...
1098. ...uctors YBaCuO. In certain states of spin-1 superfluids or Bose condensates, the condensate wavefunction is invariant if the superfluid phase changes by formula_20, along with a formula_20 rotation of **spin** angle. This is in contrast to the formula_4 invariance of condensate wavefunction in a spin-0 superfluid. A vortex resulting from such phase windings is called fractional or half-quantum vortex, in c...
1099. ...avefunction is invariant if the superfluid phase changes by formula_20, along with a formula_20 rotation of spin angle. This is in contrast to the formula_4 invariance of condensate wavefunction in a **spin**-0 superfluid. A vortex resulting from such phase windings is called fractional or half-quantum vortex, in contrast to one-quantum vortex where a phase changes by formula_4. Different kinds of "Fracti...
1100. ...anufacture electrically conductive textiles. The simplest way is to incorporate metal wires or wire meshes into fabrics. Another approach is to use metalized yarns. In staple yarns, it is possible to **spin** short strands of regular yarns with metal yarns. Electrically conducting yarns may be made of a central metal strand with regular yarn woven around it. It is however also possible to coat a base poly...
1101. ...he behavior of radio antennas, and the propagation of radio waves through the Earth's atmosphere. Historically, the subject played a significant role in the development of nonlinear dynamics. Quantum **spin** Hall effect The quantum spin Hall state is a state of matter proposed to exist in special, two-dimensional semiconductors that have a quantized spin-Hall conductance and a vanishing charge-Hall condu...
1102. ..., and the propagation of radio waves through the Earth's atmosphere. Historically, the subject played a significant role in the development of nonlinear dynamics. Quantum spin Hall effect The quantum **spin** Hall state is a state of matter proposed to exist in special, two-dimensional semiconductors that have a quantized spin-Hall conductance and a vanishing charge-Hall conductance. The quantum spin Hall...
1103. ...in the development of nonlinear dynamics. Quantum spin Hall effect The quantum spin Hall state is a state of matter proposed to exist in special, two-dimensional semiconductors that have a quantized **spin**-Hall conductance and a vanishing charge-Hall conductance. The quantum spin Hall state of matter is the cousin of the integer quantum Hall state, and that does not require the application of a large m...
1104. ...ntum spin Hall state is a state of matter proposed to exist in special, two-dimensional semiconductors that have a quantized spin-Hall conductance and a vanishing charge-Hall conductance. The quantum **spin** Hall state of matter is the cousin of the integer quantum Hall state, and that does not require the application of a large magnetic field. The quantum spin Hall state does not break charge conservati...
1105. ...ishing charge-Hall conductance. The quantum spin Hall state of matter is the cousin of the integer quantum Hall state, and that does not require the application of a large magnetic field. The quantum **spin** Hall state does not break charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry (in order to have well defined Hall conductances).  The first proposal for the existence of a quantum s...
1106. ...atter is the cousin of the integer quantum Hall state, and that does not require the application of a large magnetic field. The quantum spin Hall state does not break charge conservation symmetry and **spin**-formula_1 conservation symmetry (in order to have well defined Hall conductances).  The first proposal for the existence of a quantum spin Hall state was developed by Charles Kane and Gene Mele who a...
1107. ...n Hall state does not break charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry (in order to have well defined Hall conductances).  The first proposal for the existence of a quantum **spin** Hall state was developed by Charles Kane and Gene Mele who adapted an earlier model for graphene by F. Duncan M. Haldane which exhibits an integer quantum Hall effect. The Kane and Mele model is two...
1108. ...and Gene Mele who adapted an earlier model for graphene by F. Duncan M. Haldane which exhibits an integer quantum Hall effect. The Kane and Mele model is two copies of the Haldane model such that the **spin** up electron exhibits a chiral integer quantum Hall Effect while the spin down electron exhibits an anti-chiral integer quantum Hall effect. A relativistic version of the quantum spin Hall effect was...
1109. ...aldane which exhibits an integer quantum Hall effect. The Kane and Mele model is two copies of the Haldane model such that the spin up electron exhibits a chiral integer quantum Hall Effect while the **spin** down electron exhibits an anti-chiral integer quantum Hall effect. A relativistic version of the quantum spin Hall effect was introduced in the 1990s for the numerical simulation of chiral gauge theo...
1110. ...el such that the spin up electron exhibits a chiral integer quantum Hall Effect while the spin down electron exhibits an anti-chiral integer quantum Hall effect. A relativistic version of the quantum **spin** Hall effect was introduced in the 1990s for the numerical simulation of chiral gauge theories; the simplest example consisting of a parity and time reversal symmetric U(1) gauge theory with bulk ferm...
1111. ...onsisting of a parity and time reversal symmetric U(1) gauge theory with bulk fermions of opposite sign mass, a massless Dirac surface mode, and bulk currents that carry chirality but not charge (the **spin** Hall current analogue). Overall the Kane-Mele model has a charge-Hall conductance of exactly zero but a spin-Hall conductance of exactly formula_2 (in units of formula_3). Independently, a quantum sp...
1112. ...a massless Dirac surface mode, and bulk currents that carry chirality but not charge (the spin Hall current analogue). Overall the Kane-Mele model has a charge-Hall conductance of exactly zero but a **spin**-Hall conductance of exactly formula_2 (in units of formula_3). Independently, a quantum spin Hall model was proposed by Andrei Bernevig and Shoucheng Zhang in an intricate strain architecture which e...
1113. ...in Hall current analogue). Overall the Kane-Mele model has a charge-Hall conductance of exactly zero but a spin-Hall conductance of exactly formula_2 (in units of formula_3). Independently, a quantum **spin** Hall model was proposed by Andrei Bernevig and Shoucheng Zhang in an intricate strain architecture which engineers, due to spin-orbit coupling, a magnetic field pointing upwards for spin-up electrons...
1114. ...of exactly formula_2 (in units of formula_3). Independently, a quantum spin Hall model was proposed by Andrei Bernevig and Shoucheng Zhang in an intricate strain architecture which engineers, due to **spin**-orbit coupling, a magnetic field pointing upwards for spin-up electrons and a magnetic field pointing downwards for spin-down electrons. The main ingredient is the existence of spin–orbit coupling, w...
1115. ...y, a quantum spin Hall model was proposed by Andrei Bernevig and Shoucheng Zhang in an intricate strain architecture which engineers, due to spin-orbit coupling, a magnetic field pointing upwards for **spin**-up electrons and a magnetic field pointing downwards for spin-down electrons. The main ingredient is the existence of spin–orbit coupling, which can be understood as a momentum-dependent magnetic fie...
1116. ...nd Shoucheng Zhang in an intricate strain architecture which engineers, due to spin-orbit coupling, a magnetic field pointing upwards for spin-up electrons and a magnetic field pointing downwards for **spin**-down electrons. The main ingredient is the existence of spin–orbit coupling, which can be understood as a momentum-dependent magnetic field coupling to the spin of the electron. Real experimental sys...
1117. ...engineers, due to spin-orbit coupling, a magnetic field pointing upwards for spin-up electrons and a magnetic field pointing downwards for spin-down electrons. The main ingredient is the existence of **spin**–orbit coupling, which can be understood as a momentum-dependent magnetic field coupling to the spin of the electron. Real experimental systems, however, are far from the idealized picture presented a...
1118. ...magnetic field pointing downwards for spin-down electrons. The main ingredient is the existence of spin–orbit coupling, which can be understood as a momentum-dependent magnetic field coupling to the **spin** of the electron. Real experimental systems, however, are far from the idealized picture presented above in which spin-up and spin-down electrons are not coupled. A very important achievement was the...
1119. ...g, which can be understood as a momentum-dependent magnetic field coupling to the spin of the electron. Real experimental systems, however, are far from the idealized picture presented above in which **spin**-up and spin-down electrons are not coupled. A very important achievement was the realization that the quantum spin Hall state remains to be non-trivial even after the introduction of spin-up spin-dow...
1120. ...be understood as a momentum-dependent magnetic field coupling to the spin of the electron. Real experimental systems, however, are far from the idealized picture presented above in which spin-up and **spin**-down electrons are not coupled. A very important achievement was the realization that the quantum spin Hall state remains to be non-trivial even after the introduction of spin-up spin-down scattering...
1121. ...mental systems, however, are far from the idealized picture presented above in which spin-up and spin-down electrons are not coupled. A very important achievement was the realization that the quantum **spin** Hall state remains to be non-trivial even after the introduction of spin-up spin-down scattering, which destroys the quantum spin Hall effect. In a separate paper, Kane and Mele introduced a topologi...
1122. ...ve in which spin-up and spin-down electrons are not coupled. A very important achievement was the realization that the quantum spin Hall state remains to be non-trivial even after the introduction of **spin**-up spin-down scattering, which destroys the quantum spin Hall effect. In a separate paper, Kane and Mele introduced a topological formula_4 invariant which characterizes a state as trivial or non-tri...
1123. ...ich spin-up and spin-down electrons are not coupled. A very important achievement was the realization that the quantum spin Hall state remains to be non-trivial even after the introduction of spin-up **spin**-down scattering, which destroys the quantum spin Hall effect. In a separate paper, Kane and Mele introduced a topological formula_4 invariant which characterizes a state as trivial or non-trivial ban...
1124. ...ed. A very important achievement was the realization that the quantum spin Hall state remains to be non-trivial even after the introduction of spin-up spin-down scattering, which destroys the quantum **spin** Hall effect. In a separate paper, Kane and Mele introduced a topological formula_4 invariant which characterizes a state as trivial or non-trivial band insulator (regardless if the state exhibits or...
1125. ...paper, Kane and Mele introduced a topological formula_4 invariant which characterizes a state as trivial or non-trivial band insulator (regardless if the state exhibits or does not exhibit a quantum **spin** Hall effect). Further stability studies of the edge liquid through which conduction takes place in the quantum spin Hall state proved, both analytically and numerically that the non-trivial state is...
1126. ...vial band insulator (regardless if the state exhibits or does not exhibit a quantum spin Hall effect). Further stability studies of the edge liquid through which conduction takes place in the quantum **spin** Hall state proved, both analytically and numerically that the non-trivial state is robust to both interactions and extra spin-orbit coupling terms that mix spin-up and spin-down electrons. Such a non...
1127. ...es of the edge liquid through which conduction takes place in the quantum spin Hall state proved, both analytically and numerically that the non-trivial state is robust to both interactions and extra **spin**-orbit coupling terms that mix spin-up and spin-down electrons. Such a non-trivial state (exhibiting or not exhibiting a quantum spin Hall effect) is called a topological insulator, which is an exampl...
1128. ...conduction takes place in the quantum spin Hall state proved, both analytically and numerically that the non-trivial state is robust to both interactions and extra spin-orbit coupling terms that mix **spin**-up and spin-down electrons. Such a non-trivial state (exhibiting or not exhibiting a quantum spin Hall effect) is called a topological insulator, which is an example of symmetry-protected topological...
1129. ...takes place in the quantum spin Hall state proved, both analytically and numerically that the non-trivial state is robust to both interactions and extra spin-orbit coupling terms that mix spin-up and **spin**-down electrons. Such a non-trivial state (exhibiting or not exhibiting a quantum spin Hall effect) is called a topological insulator, which is an example of symmetry-protected topological order prote...
1130. ...hat the non-trivial state is robust to both interactions and extra spin-orbit coupling terms that mix spin-up and spin-down electrons. Such a non-trivial state (exhibiting or not exhibiting a quantum **spin** Hall effect) is called a topological insulator, which is an example of symmetry-protected topological order protected by charge conservation symmetry and time reversal symmetry. (Note that the quantu...
1131. ...all effect) is called a topological insulator, which is an example of symmetry-protected topological order protected by charge conservation symmetry and time reversal symmetry. (Note that the quantum **spin** Hall state is also a symmetry-protected topological state protected by charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry. We do not need time reversal symmetry to protect quantum...
1132. ...otected by charge conservation symmetry and time reversal symmetry. (Note that the quantum spin Hall state is also a symmetry-protected topological state protected by charge conservation symmetry and **spin**-formula_1 conservation symmetry. We do not need time reversal symmetry to protect quantum spin Hall state. Topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different symmetry-protected topologic...
1133. ...Hall state is also a symmetry-protected topological state protected by charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry. We do not need time reversal symmetry to protect quantum **spin** Hall state. Topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different symmetry-protected topological states. So topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different states of matter....
1134. ...l state protected by charge conservation symmetry and spin-formula_1 conservation symmetry. We do not need time reversal symmetry to protect quantum spin Hall state. Topological insulator and quantum **spin** Hall state are different symmetry-protected topological states. So topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different states of matter.) Since graphene has extremely weak spin-orbit coup...
1135. ...time reversal symmetry to protect quantum spin Hall state. Topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different symmetry-protected topological states. So topological insulator and quantum **spin** Hall state are different states of matter.) Since graphene has extremely weak spin-orbit coupling, it is very unlikely to support a quantum spin Hall state at temperatures achievable with today's tec...
1136. ...nd quantum spin Hall state are different symmetry-protected topological states. So topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different states of matter.) Since graphene has extremely weak **spin**-orbit coupling, it is very unlikely to support a quantum spin Hall state at temperatures achievable with today's technologies. Two-dimensional topological insulators (also known as the quantum spin H...
1137. ...pological states. So topological insulator and quantum spin Hall state are different states of matter.) Since graphene has extremely weak spin-orbit coupling, it is very unlikely to support a quantum **spin** Hall state at temperatures achievable with today's technologies. Two-dimensional topological insulators (also known as the quantum spin Hall insulators) with one-dimensional helical edge states were...
1138. ...k spin-orbit coupling, it is very unlikely to support a quantum spin Hall state at temperatures achievable with today's technologies. Two-dimensional topological insulators (also known as the quantum **spin** Hall insulators) with one-dimensional helical edge states were predicted in 2006 by Bernevig, Hughes and Zhang to occur in quantum wells (very thin layers) of mercury telluride sandwiched between cad...
1139. ...ted band structure of HgTe, at some critical HgTe thickness, a Lifshitz transition occurs in which the system closes the bulk band gap to become a semi-metal, and then re-opens it to become a quantum **spin** Hall insulator. In the gap closing and re-opening process, two edge states are brought out from the bulk and cross the bulk-gap. As such, when the Fermi level resides in the bulk gap, the conduction...
1140. ...ross the bulk-gap. As such, when the Fermi level resides in the bulk gap, the conduction is dominated by the edge channels that cross the gap. The two-terminal conductance is formula_6 in the quantum **spin** Hall state and zero in the normal insulating state. As the conduction is dominated by the edge channels, the value of the conductance should be insensitive to how wide the sample is. A magnetic field...
1141. ...normal insulating state. As the conduction is dominated by the edge channels, the value of the conductance should be insensitive to how wide the sample is. A magnetic field should destroy the quantum **spin** Hall state by breaking time-reversal invariance and allowing spin-up spin-down electron scattering processes at the edge. All these predictions have been experimentally verified in an experiment perf...
1142. ...e channels, the value of the conductance should be insensitive to how wide the sample is. A magnetic field should destroy the quantum spin Hall state by breaking time-reversal invariance and allowing **spin**-up spin-down electron scattering processes at the edge. All these predictions have been experimentally verified in an experiment performed in the Molenkamp labs at Universität Würzburg in Germany.  C...
1143. ...ls, the value of the conductance should be insensitive to how wide the sample is. A magnetic field should destroy the quantum spin Hall state by breaking time-reversal invariance and allowing spin-up **spin**-down electron scattering processes at the edge. All these predictions have been experimentally verified in an experiment performed in the Molenkamp labs at Universität Würzburg in Germany.  CDMA mobi...
1144. ...u ions, suggest that electron-phonon coupling is less relevant in cuprates. Recent work on the Fermi surface has shown that nesting occurs at four points in the antiferromagnetic Brillouin zone where **spin** waves exist and that the superconducting energy gap is larger at these points. The weak isotope effects observed for most cuprates contrast with conventional superconductors that are well described b...
1145. ...varying magnetic field (Induction machine). "PM machines" have permanent magnets in the rotor which set up a magnetic field. The magnetomotive force in a PM (caused by orbiting electrons with aligned **spin**) is generally much higher than what is possible in a copper coil. The copper coil can, however, be filled with a ferromagnetic material, which gives the coil much lower magnetic reluctance. Still the...
1146. ...hotovoltaic cells. Alternating current power is typically supplied by a rotor that spins in a magnetic field in a device known as a turbo generator. There have been a wide range of techniques used to **spin** a turbine's rotor, from steam heated using fossil fuel (including coal, gas and oil) or nuclear energy to falling water (hydroelectric power) and wind (wind power). The speed at which the rotor spins...
1147. ...e, the national grid, rotate at sub-multiples of the same speed and so generate electric current at the same frequency. If the load on the system increases, the generators will require more torque to **spin** at that speed and, in a steam power station, more steam must be supplied to the turbines driving them. Thus the steam used and the fuel expended directly relate to the quantity of electrical energy s...
1148. ...eactive power. A solution to this comes in the form of synchronous condensers, static VAR compensators and static synchronous compensators. Briefly, synchronous condensers are synchronous motors that **spin** freely to generate or absorb reactive power. Static VAR compensators work by switching in capacitors using thyristors as opposed to circuit breakers allowing capacitors to be switched-in and switched...
1149. ...culties in power systems is that the active power consumed plus losses must equal the active power produced. If load is reduced while generation inputs remain constant the synchronous generators will **spin** faster and the system frequency will rise. The opposite occurs if load is increased. As such the system frequency must be actively managed primarily through switching on and off dispatchable loads an...
1150. ...o all nearest neighbors in the crystal lattice. Thus, critical temperatures at which point these classical magnets cross over to the ordered magnetic state tend to be high, since interactions between **spin** centers is strong. Molecule-based magnets, however, have spin bearing units on molecular entities, often with highly directional bonding. In some cases, chemical bonding is restricted to one dimensio...
1151. ...temperatures at which point these classical magnets cross over to the ordered magnetic state tend to be high, since interactions between spin centers is strong. Molecule-based magnets, however, have **spin** bearing units on molecular entities, often with highly directional bonding. In some cases, chemical bonding is restricted to one dimension (chains). Thus, interactions between spin centers are also l...
1152. ...ets, however, have spin bearing units on molecular entities, often with highly directional bonding. In some cases, chemical bonding is restricted to one dimension (chains). Thus, interactions between **spin** centers are also limited to one dimension, and ordering temperatures are much lower than metal/alloy-type magnets. Also, large parts of the magnetic material are essentially diamagnetic, and contribu...
1153. ...oordination compounds with bridging organic radicals, Prussian blue related compounds, and charge-transfer complexes. Molecule-based magnets derive their net moment from the cooperative effect of the **spin**-bearing molecular entities, and can display bulk ferromagnetic and ferrimagnetic behavior with a true critical temperature. In this regard, they are contrasted with single-molecule magnets, which are...
1154. ...formula_2 where t describes the transfer integral or the kinetic energy of the electron and formula_3 and formula_4 are the creation and annihilation operator, respectively, for an electron with the **spin** formula_5 at the formula_6th or formula_7th site. formula_8 denotes the density operator. For non-dimerized systems, formula_1 can be set to zero Normally, the on-site Coulomb repulsion U stays uncha...
1155. ...e for the high anisotropic conductivity. That is why it will be distinct between different dimensional organic conductors. They possess a huge variety of ground states, for instance, charge ordering, **spin**-Peierls, spin-density wave, antiferromagnetic state, superconductivity, charge-density wave to name only some of them. The model system of one-dimensional conductors is the Bechgaard-Fabre salts fami...
1156. ...anisotropic conductivity. That is why it will be distinct between different dimensional organic conductors. They possess a huge variety of ground states, for instance, charge ordering, spin-Peierls, **spin**-density wave, antiferromagnetic state, superconductivity, charge-density wave to name only some of them. The model system of one-dimensional conductors is the Bechgaard-Fabre salts family, (TMTTF)X a...
1157. ...erromagnetic superconductors is currently under debate. Early investigations studied the coexistence of conventional "s"-wave superconductivity with itinerant ferromagnetism. However, the scenario of **spin**-triplet pairing soon gained the upper hand. A mean-field model for coexistence of spin-triplet pairing and ferromagnetism was developed in 2005. These models consider uniform coexistence of ferromagn...
1158. ...e coexistence of conventional "s"-wave superconductivity with itinerant ferromagnetism. However, the scenario of spin-triplet pairing soon gained the upper hand. A mean-field model for coexistence of **spin**-triplet pairing and ferromagnetism was developed in 2005. These models consider uniform coexistence of ferromagnetism and superconductivity, i.e. the same electrons which are both ferromagnetic and s...
1159. ...n these cases, the superconducting and magnetic order parameters entwine each other in a spatially modulated pattern, which allows for their mutual coexistence, although it is no longer uniform. Even **spin**-singlet pairing may coexist with ferromagnetism in this manner. In conventional superconductors, the electrons constituting the Cooper pair have opposite spin, forming so-called spin-singlet pairs. H...
1160. ..., although it is no longer uniform. Even spin-singlet pairing may coexist with ferromagnetism in this manner. In conventional superconductors, the electrons constituting the Cooper pair have opposite **spin**, forming so-called spin-singlet pairs. However, other types of pairings are also permitted by the governing Pauli principle. In the presence of a magnetic field, spins tend to align themselves with t...
1161. ...er uniform. Even spin-singlet pairing may coexist with ferromagnetism in this manner. In conventional superconductors, the electrons constituting the Cooper pair have opposite spin, forming so-called **spin**-singlet pairs. However, other types of pairings are also permitted by the governing Pauli principle. In the presence of a magnetic field, spins tend to align themselves with the field, which means th...
1162. ...o permitted by the governing Pauli principle. In the presence of a magnetic field, spins tend to align themselves with the field, which means that a magnetic field is detrimental for the existence of **spin**-singlet Cooper pairs. A viable mean-field Hamiltonian for modelling itinerant ferromagnetism coexisting with a non-unitary spin-triplet state may after diagonalization be written as IEC 61400-25 Inte...
1163. ..., which means that a magnetic field is detrimental for the existence of spin-singlet Cooper pairs. A viable mean-field Hamiltonian for modelling itinerant ferromagnetism coexisting with a non-unitary **spin**-triplet state may after diagonalization be written as IEC 61400-25 International standard IEC 61400-25 (Communications for monitoring and control of wind power plants, TC 88) provides uniform informa...
1164. ...is, they do not display a magnetic structure. Due to the Pauli exclusion principle, each state is occupied by electrons of opposing spins, so that the charge density is compensated everywhere and the **spin** degree of freedom is trivial. Still, such materials typically do show a weak magnetic behaviour, e.g. due to diamagnetism or Pauli paramagnetism. The more interesting case is when the material's elec...
1165. ...diamagnetism or Pauli paramagnetism. The more interesting case is when the material's electron spontaneously break above-mentioned symmetry. For ferromagnetism in the ground state, there is a common **spin** quantization axis and a global excess of electrons of a given spin quantum number, there are more electrons pointing in one direction than in the other, giving a macroscopic magnetization (typically,...
1166. ...when the material's electron spontaneously break above-mentioned symmetry. For ferromagnetism in the ground state, there is a common spin quantization axis and a global excess of electrons of a given **spin** quantum number, there are more electrons pointing in one direction than in the other, giving a macroscopic magnetization (typically, the majority electrons are chosen to point up). In the most simple...
1167. ...s in ferromagnetism, but the local magnetization points in different directions. The above discussion pertains to the ground state structure. Of course, finite temperatures lead to excitations of the **spin** configuration. Here two extreme points of view can be contrasted: in the Stoner picture of magnetism (also called itinerant magnetism), the electronic states are delocalized, and their mean-field int...
1168. ...ering point, e.g. the Néel temperature of an antiferromagnet or the Curie-point of a ferromagnet the neutrons will also experience scattering from the magnetic moments because they themselves possess **spin**. The intensities of the Bragg reflections will therefore change. In fact in some cases entirely new Bragg-reflections will occur if the unit cell of the ordering is larger than that of the crystallog...
1169. ...contained in the materials the scattering becomes anomalous and this component to the scattering is (somewhat) sensitive to the non-spherical shape of the outer electrons of an atom with an unpaired **spin**. This means that this type of anomalous X-ray diffraction does contain information of the desired type. More recently, table-top techniques are being developed which allow magnetic structures to be s...
1170. ...magnetic structures. There is also antiferromagnetic ordering, which becomes disordered above the Néel temperature. Chromium is somewhat like a simple antiferromagnet, but also has an incommensurate **spin** density wave modulation on top of the simple up-down spin alternation. Manganese (in the α-Mn form) has 29 atoms unit cell, leading to a complex, but commensurate antiferromagnetic arrangement at low...
1171. ...ring, which becomes disordered above the Néel temperature. Chromium is somewhat like a simple antiferromagnet, but also has an incommensurate spin density wave modulation on top of the simple up-down **spin** alternation. Manganese (in the α-Mn form) has 29 atoms unit cell, leading to a complex, but commensurate antiferromagnetic arrangement at low temperatures (magnetic space group P2'm'). Unlike most el...
1172. ...t from the "easy" to "hard" positions. The energy required to do this is defined as the anisotropic energy. The easy and hard alignments and their relative energies are due to the interaction between **spin** magnetic moment of each atom and the crystal lattice of the compound being studied. Yttria-stabilized zirconia Yttria-stabilized zirconia (YSZ) is a ceramic in which the cubic crystal structure of zi...
1173. ...ons. For an example of the Independent electron approximation's usefulness in quantum mechanics, consider an "N"-atom crystal with one free electron per atom (each with atomic number "Z"). Neglecting **spin**, the Hamiltonian of the system takes the form: where formula_2 is the reduced Planck constant, "e" is the elementary charge, "m" is the electron rest mass, and formula_3 is the gradient operator for...
1174. ...teractions on ferromagnetic materials. It provides a practical way to model the time-domain behavior of magnetic elements. Recent developments generalizes the LLG equation to include the influence of **spin**-polarized currents in the form of spin-transfer torque. In a ferromagnet, the magnitude of the magnetization at each spacetime point is approximated by the saturation magnetization (although it can b...
1175. ...It provides a practical way to model the time-domain behavior of magnetic elements. Recent developments generalizes the LLG equation to include the influence of spin-polarized currents in the form of **spin**-transfer torque. In a ferromagnet, the magnitude of the magnetization at each spacetime point is approximated by the saturation magnetization (although it can be smaller when averaged over a chunk of...
1176. ..., the precessional term depends on the damping term. This better represents the behavior of real ferromagnets when the damping is large. In 1996 John Slonczewski expanded the model to account for the **spin**-transfer torque, i.e. the torque induced upon the magnetization by spin-polarized current flowing through the ferromagnet. This is commonly written in terms of the unit moment defined by : where form...
1177. ...nts the behavior of real ferromagnets when the damping is large. In 1996 John Slonczewski expanded the model to account for the spin-transfer torque, i.e. the torque induced upon the magnetization by **spin**-polarized current flowing through the ferromagnet. This is commonly written in terms of the unit moment defined by : where formula_4 is the dimensionless damping parameter, formula_5 and formula_6 ar...
1178. ...is acronymized as CXRS or CER. Ishimori equation The Ishimori equation is a partial differential equation proposed by the Japanese mathematician . Its interest is as the first example of a nonlinear **spin**-one field model in the plane that is integrable . The Ishimori equation has the form The Lax representation of the equation is given by Here the formula_1 are the Pauli matrices and formula_2 is the...
1179. ...tion, which prefers orthogonal alignment of neighboring magnetic moments. In this situation, the symmetric and antisymmetric contributions compete with each other and can result in versatile magnetic **spin** textures such as magnetic skyrmions. Superexchange was theoretically proposed by Hendrik Kramers in 1934, when he noticed that in crystals like Manganese(II) oxide (MnO), there are manganese atoms th...
1180. ...where "t" is the so-called hopping energy between a Mn 3"d" and the oxygen "p" orbitals, while "U" is a so-called Hubbard energy for Mn. The expression formula_2 is the scalar product between the Mn **spin**-vector operators (Heisenberg model). It has been proven, that due to the multiple energy scales present in the model for superexchange, perturbation theory is not in general convergent, and is thus n...
1181. ...superconductors change dramatically with doping. Parent compounds of FeSC are usually metals (unlike the cuprates) but, similarly to cuprates, are ordered antiferromagnetically that often termed as a **spin**-density wave (SDW). The superconductivity (SC) emerges upon either hole or electron doping. In general, the phase diagram is similar to the cuprates. Superconducting transition temperatures are liste...
1182. ...al acquires (and in some cases loses) its ferromagnetic properties in response to light. The current model for this phenomenon is a light-induced electron transfer, accompanied by the reversal of the **spin** direction of an electron. This leads to an increase in spin concentration, causing the magnetic transition. Currently the effect is only observed to persist (for any significant time) at very low tem...
1183. ...erties in response to light. The current model for this phenomenon is a light-induced electron transfer, accompanied by the reversal of the spin direction of an electron. This leads to an increase in **spin** concentration, causing the magnetic transition. Currently the effect is only observed to persist (for any significant time) at very low temperature. But at temperatures such as 5K, the effect may per...
1184. ...ywalker: A Family at War" describes Palpatine's son as an "offshoot of [his] genetic research, not precisely a clone but made of cloned tissue and donated cells." "" (2015) was one of the first canon **spin**-off novels to be released in the Disney canon begun in 2014. In it, Vader and Palpatine find themselves hunted by revolutionaries on the Twi'lek home planet Ryloth. In "" (2017), the titular characte...
1185. ...films.  Regarding the origin of superconductivity in diamond, three alternative theories were suggested: conventional BCS theory based on phonon-mediated pairing, correlated impurity band theory and **spin**-flip-driven pairing of holes weakly localized in the vicinity of the Fermi level. Experiments on diamonds enriched with C, C, B or B isotopes revealed a clear "T" shift, and its magnitude confirms th...
1186. ...ticle, the "nucleon". Two fermions, such as two protons, or two neutrons, or a proton + neutron (the deuteron) can exhibit bosonic behavior when they become loosely bound in pairs, which have integer **spin**. In the rare case of a hypernucleus, a third baryon called a hyperon, containing one or more strange quarks and/or other unusual quark(s), can also share the wave function. However, this type of nucl...
1187. ...trons in shells was discovered in 1923 by Edmund Stoner, who introduced the principle that the "n"th shell was described by 2("n"). Seeing this in 1925, Wolfgang Pauli added a fourth quantum number, "**spin**", during the old quantum theory period of the Sommerfeld-Bohr Solar System atom to complete the modern electron shell theory. Each shell is composed of one or more subshells, which are themselves com...
1188. ...f the angular momentum of the photons would set the magnetization direction without the need of an external magnetic field. In fact, this process could be seen as similar to magnetization reversal by **spin** injection (see also spintronics). The only difference is that now, the angular momentum is supplied by the circularly polarized photons instead of the polarized electrons. Although experimentally dem...
1189. ...ns (see single domain (magnetic)). The magnetization dynamics of sufficiently small nanomagnets at low temperatures, typically single-molecule magnets, presents quantum phenomena, such as macroscopic **spin** tunnelling. At larger temperatures, the magnetization undergoes random thermal fluctuations (superparamagnetism) which present a limit for the use of nanomagnets for permanent information storage. Ca...
1190. ...gnetic ground states with in systems with as few as 5 Fe atoms with S=2. Canonical single-molecule magnets are the so-called Mn and Fe systems, with 12 and 8 transition metal atoms each and both with **spin** 10 (S = 10) ground states. The phenomenon of zero field magnetization requires three conditions: Conditions 1 and 2, but not 3, have been demonstrated in a number of nanostructures, such as nanoparti...
1191. ...nteraction, "μ" is the nuclear magnetic moment, "μ" is the electron magnetic dipole moment, Ψ(0) is the value of the electron wavefunction at the nucleus, and formula_3 denotes the quantum mechanical **spin** coupling. It has been pointed out that it is an ill-defined problem because the standard formulation assumes that the nucleus has a magnetic dipolar moment, which is not always the case. Roughly, the...
1192. ...problem because the standard formulation assumes that the nucleus has a magnetic dipolar moment, which is not always the case. Roughly, the magnitude of "A" indicates the extent to which the unpaired **spin** resides on the nucleus. Thus, knowledge of the "A" values allows one to map the singly occupied molecular orbital. The interaction was first derived by Enrico Fermi in 1930. A classical derivation of...
1193. ...uce by 4.1 tonnes; projected emissions savings for 2020 were 180.6 tonnes. Spinmechatronics Spinmechatronics is neologism referring to an emerging field of research concerned with the exploitation of **spin**-dependent phenomena and established spintronic methodologies and technologies in conjunction with electro-mechanical, magno-mechanical, acousto-mechanical and opto-mechanical systems. Most especially...
1194. ...d established spintronic methodologies and technologies in conjunction with electro-mechanical, magno-mechanical, acousto-mechanical and opto-mechanical systems. Most especially, spinmechatronics (or **spin** mechatronics) concerns the integration of micro- and nano- mechatronic systems with spin physics and spintronics. While spinmechatronics has been recognised only recently (2008) as an independent fie...
1195. ...nical, magno-mechanical, acousto-mechanical and opto-mechanical systems. Most especially, spinmechatronics (or spin mechatronics) concerns the integration of micro- and nano- mechatronic systems with **spin** physics and spintronics. While spinmechatronics has been recognised only recently (2008) as an independent field, hybrid spin-mechanical system development dates back to the early nineteen-nineties,...
1196. ...cs) concerns the integration of micro- and nano- mechatronic systems with spin physics and spintronics. While spinmechatronics has been recognised only recently (2008) as an independent field, hybrid **spin**-mechanical system development dates back to the early nineteen-nineties, with devices combining spintronics and micromechanics emerging at the turn of the twenty-first century. One of the longest est...
1197. ...eoretically and experimentally by a number of international research groups – the MRFM operates by coupling a magnetically loaded micro-mechanical cantilever to an excited nuclear, proton or electron **spin** system. The MRFM concept effectively combines scanning atomic force microscopy (AFM) with magnetic resonance spectroscopy to provide a spectroscopic tool of unparalleled sensitivity. Nanometre resolu...
1198. ...g similar principles are likely to realize research and commercial potential by 2015. Contemporary innovation in spinmechatronics drives forward the independent advancement of cutting-edge science in **spin** physics, spintronics and micro- and nano-mechatronics and catalyses the development of wholly new instrumentation, control and fabrication techniques to facilitate and exploit their integration. MEMS...
1199. ...chanical and data processing systems, and the option of attaching chemical/ biological molecules, makes them ideal for ultra high-performance mechanical, chemical and biological sensing applications. **Spin** physics is a broad and active area of condensed-matter physics research. ‘Spin’ in this context refers to a quantum mechanical property of certain elementary particles and nuclei, and should not be c...
1200. ...logical molecules, makes them ideal for ultra high-performance mechanical, chemical and biological sensing applications. Spin physics is a broad and active area of condensed-matter physics research. ‘**Spin**’ in this context refers to a quantum mechanical property of certain elementary particles and nuclei, and should not be confused with the classical (and better-known) concept of rotation. Spin physics...
1201. ...earch. ‘Spin’ in this context refers to a quantum mechanical property of certain elementary particles and nuclei, and should not be confused with the classical (and better-known) concept of rotation. **Spin** physics spans studies of nuclear, electron and proton magnetic resonance, magnetism, and certain areas of optics. Spintronics is a branch of spin physics. Perhaps the two best known applications of s...
1202. ...the classical (and better-known) concept of rotation. Spin physics spans studies of nuclear, electron and proton magnetic resonance, magnetism, and certain areas of optics. Spintronics is a branch of **spin** physics. Perhaps the two best known applications of spin physics are Magnetic Resonance Imaging (or MRI) and the spintronic giant-magnetoresistive (GMR) hard disk read head. Spintronic magnetoresista...
1203. ...n physics spans studies of nuclear, electron and proton magnetic resonance, magnetism, and certain areas of optics. Spintronics is a branch of spin physics. Perhaps the two best known applications of **spin** physics are Magnetic Resonance Imaging (or MRI) and the spintronic giant-magnetoresistive (GMR) hard disk read head. Spintronic magnetoresistance is a major scientific and commercial success story. T...
1204. ...r. The science that gave rise to this phenomenal business opportunity – and earned the 2007 Nobel Prize for Physics – was the recognition that electrical carriers are characterized by both charge and **spin**. Today, tunnelling-magnetoresistance (TMR) – which uses the electron spin as a label to allow or forbid electron tunnelling – dominates the hard disk market and is rapidly establishing itself in area...
1205. ...d earned the 2007 Nobel Prize for Physics – was the recognition that electrical carriers are characterized by both charge and spin. Today, tunnelling-magnetoresistance (TMR) – which uses the electron **spin** as a label to allow or forbid electron tunnelling – dominates the hard disk market and is rapidly establishing itself in areas as diverse as magnetic logic devices and biosensors. Ongoing development...

=== CELL (1508 occurrences) ===
1. ...allic bonding provided by atoms' outermost electrons; hence aluminium (at these conditions) is a metal. This crystal system is shared by many other metals, such as lead and copper; the size of a unit **cell** of aluminium is comparable to that of those other metals. The system, however, is not shared by the other members of its group: boron has ionization energies too high to allow metallization, thallium...
2. ...aluminium parts easily identifiable through their lightness. Aluminium's low density compared to most other metals arises from the fact that its nuclei are much lighter, while difference in the unit **cell** size does not compensate for this difference. The only lighter metals are the metals of groups 1 and 2, which apart from beryllium and magnesium are too reactive for structural use (and beryllium is...
3. ...c aluminium. The liquid aluminium sinks to the bottom of the solution and is tapped off, and usually cast into large blocks called aluminium billets for further processing. Anodes of the electrolysis **cell** are made of carbon—the most resistant material against fluoride corrosion—and either bake at the process or are prebaked. The former, also called Söderberg anodes, are less power-efficient and fumes...
4. ...es are made of anthracite; high purity for them is not required because impurities leach only very slowly. The cathode is consumed at a rate of 0.02–0.04 kg per each kilogram of produced aluminium. A **cell** is usually terminated after 2–6 years following a failure of the cathode. The Hall–Heroult process produces aluminium with a purity of above 99%. Further purification can be done by the Hoopes proces...
5. ...d the flow of electricity by other means familiar to him from his previous studies. In this way, he discovered the electrochemical series, and the law that the electromotive force (emf) of a galvanic **cell**, consisting of a pair of metal electrodes separated by electrolyte, is the difference between their two electrode potentials (thus, two identical electrodes and a common electrolyte give zero net emf...
6. ...y electric current. Volta had determined that the most effective pair of dissimilar metals to produce electricity was zinc and copper. Initially, he experimented with individual cells in series, each **cell** being a wine goblet filled with brine into which the two dissimilar electrodes were dipped. The voltaic pile replaced the goblets with cardboard soaked in brine. In announcing his discovery of the vo...
7. ...nc rod the negative electrode and the copper rod the positive electrode. Thus, there are two terminals, and an electric current will flow if they are connected. The chemical reactions in this voltaic **cell** are as follows: Copper metal does not react, but rather it functions as a catalyst for the hydrogen-gas formation and an electrode for the electric current. The sulfate anion () does not undergo any...
8. ...r the electric current. The sulfate anion () does not undergo any chemical reaction either, but migrates to the zinc anode to compensate for the charge of the zinc cations formed there. However, this **cell** also has some disadvantages. It is unsafe to handle, since sulfuric acid, even if diluted, can be hazardous. Also, the power of the cell diminishes over time because the hydrogen gas is not released....
9. ...for the charge of the zinc cations formed there. However, this cell also has some disadvantages. It is unsafe to handle, since sulfuric acid, even if diluted, can be hazardous. Also, the power of the **cell** diminishes over time because the hydrogen gas is not released. Instead, it accumulates on the surface of the copper electrode and forms a barrier between the metal and the electrolyte solution. In 18...
10. ...". The direction of conventional current (the flow of positive charges) in a circuit is opposite to the direction of electron flow, so (negatively charged) electrons flow from the anode of a galvanic **cell**, into an outside or external circuit connected to the cell. For example, the end of a household battery marked with a "+" is the cathode (while discharging). In both a galvanic cell and an electrolyt...
11. ...ive charges) in a circuit is opposite to the direction of electron flow, so (negatively charged) electrons flow from the anode of a galvanic cell, into an outside or external circuit connected to the **cell**. For example, the end of a household battery marked with a "+" is the cathode (while discharging). In both a galvanic cell and an electrolytic cell, the anode is the electrode at which the oxidation...
12. ...ode of a galvanic cell, into an outside or external circuit connected to the cell. For example, the end of a household battery marked with a "+" is the cathode (while discharging). In both a galvanic **cell** and an electrolytic cell, the anode is the electrode at which the oxidation reaction occurs. In a galvanic cell the anode is the wire or plate having excess negative charge as a result of the oxidati...
13. ...nto an outside or external circuit connected to the cell. For example, the end of a household battery marked with a "+" is the cathode (while discharging). In both a galvanic cell and an electrolytic **cell**, the anode is the electrode at which the oxidation reaction occurs. In a galvanic cell the anode is the wire or plate having excess negative charge as a result of the oxidation reaction. In an electr...
14. ...sehold battery marked with a "+" is the cathode (while discharging). In both a galvanic cell and an electrolytic cell, the anode is the electrode at which the oxidation reaction occurs. In a galvanic **cell** the anode is the wire or plate having excess negative charge as a result of the oxidation reaction. In an electrolytic cell, the anode is the wire or plate upon which excess positive charge is impose...
15. ...node is the electrode at which the oxidation reaction occurs. In a galvanic cell the anode is the wire or plate having excess negative charge as a result of the oxidation reaction. In an electrolytic **cell**, the anode is the wire or plate upon which excess positive charge is imposed. As a result of this, anions will tend to move towards the anode where they will undergo oxidation. Historically, the anod...
16. ...he wire or plate upon which excess positive charge is imposed. As a result of this, anions will tend to move towards the anode where they will undergo oxidation. Historically, the anode of a galvanic **cell** was also known as the zincode because it was usually composed of zinc. The terms anode and cathode are not defined by the voltage polarity of electrodes but the direction of current through the elect...
17. ...ce type and on its operating mode. In the following examples, the anode is negative in a device that provides power, and positive in a device that consumes power: In a discharging battery or galvanic **cell** (diagram on left), the anode is the negative terminal: it is where conventional current flows into the cell. This inward current is carried externally by electrons moving outwards. In a recharging ba...
18. ...s power, and positive in a device that consumes power: In a discharging battery or galvanic cell (diagram on left), the anode is the negative terminal: it is where conventional current flows into the **cell**. This inward current is carried externally by electrons moving outwards. In a recharging battery, or an electrolytic cell, the anode is the positive terminal imposed by an external source of potentia...
19. ...ode is the negative terminal: it is where conventional current flows into the cell. This inward current is carried externally by electrons moving outwards. In a recharging battery, or an electrolytic **cell**, the anode is the positive terminal imposed by an external source of potential difference. The current through a recharging battery is opposite to the direction of current during discharge; in other...
20. ...who had been consulted by Michael Faraday over some new names needed to complete a paper on the recently discovered process of electrolysis. In that paper Faraday explained that when an electrolytic **cell** is oriented so that electric current traverses the "decomposing body" (electrolyte) in a direction "from East to West, or, which will strengthen this help to the memory, that in which the sun appears...
21. ...at the time. The reference he used to this effect was the Earth's magnetic field direction, which at that time was believed to be invariant. He fundamentally defined his arbitrary orientation for the **cell** as being that in which the internal current would run parallel to and in the same direction as a hypothetical magnetizing current loop around the local line of latitude which would induce a magnetic...
22. ...the electron, an easier to remember and more durably correct technically although historically false, etymology has been suggested: anode, from the Greek "anodos", 'way up', 'the way (up) out of the **cell** (or other device) for electrons'. In electrochemistry, the "anode" is where oxidation occurs and is the positive polarity contact in an electrolytic cell. At the anode, anions (negative ions) are for...
23. ..."anodos", 'way up', 'the way (up) out of the cell (or other device) for electrons'. In electrochemistry, the "anode" is where oxidation occurs and is the positive polarity contact in an electrolytic **cell**. At the anode, anions (negative ions) are forced by the electrical potential to react chemically and give off electrons (oxidation) which then flow up and into the driving circuit. Mnemonics: LEO Red...
24. ...erodes very slowly compared to other materials, and graphite crumbles and can produce carbon dioxide in aqueous solutions but otherwise does not participate in the reaction. In a battery or galvanic **cell**, the anode is the negative electrode from which electrons flow out towards the external part of the circuit. Internally the positively charged cations are flowing away from the anode (even though it...
25. ...e would be expected to attract them, this is due to electrode potential relative to the electrolyte solution being different for the anode and cathode metal/electrolyte systems); but, external to the **cell** in the circuit, electrons are being pushed out through the negative contact and thus through the circuit by the voltage potential as would be expected.  Battery manufacturers may regard the negative...
26. ...the anode, particularly in their technical literature. Though from an electrochemical viewpoint incorrect, it does resolve the problem of which electrode is the anode in a secondary (or rechargeable) **cell**. Using the traditional definition, the anode switches ends between charge and discharge cycles. In electronic vacuum devices such as a cathode-ray tube, the anode is the positively charged electron c...
27. ...ge carriers can be positive "or" negative, depending on the dopant used. Positive and negative charge carriers may even be present at the same time, as happens in an electrolyte in an electrochemical **cell**. A flow of positive charges gives the same electric current, and has the same effect in a circuit, as an equal flow of negative charges in the opposite direction. Since current can be the flow of eit...
28. ...ers, the current is entirely due to positive charge flow. For example, the electric currents in electrolytes are flows of positively and negatively charged ions. In a common lead-acid electrochemical **cell**, electric currents are composed of positive hydronium ions flowing in one direction, and negative sulfate ions flowing in the other. Electric currents in sparks or plasma are flows of electrons as we...
29. ...with a + (plus) is the cathode. The electrode through which conventional current flows the other way, into the device, is termed an anode. Conventional current flows from cathode to anode outside the **cell** or device (with electrons moving in the opposite direction), regardless of the cell or device type and operating mode. Cathode polarity with respect to the anode can be positive or negative depending...
30. ...ws the other way, into the device, is termed an anode. Conventional current flows from cathode to anode outside the cell or device (with electrons moving in the opposite direction), regardless of the **cell** or device type and operating mode. Cathode polarity with respect to the anode can be positive or negative depending on how the device is being operated. Inside a device or a cell, positively charged...
31. ...), regardless of the cell or device type and operating mode. Cathode polarity with respect to the anode can be positive or negative depending on how the device is being operated. Inside a device or a **cell**, positively charged cations always move towards the cathode and negatively charged anions move towards the anode, although cathode polarity depends on the device type, and can even vary according to...
32. ...g a battery) or positively polarized (such as a battery in use), the cathode will draw electrons into it from outside, as well as attract positively charged cations from inside. A battery or galvanic **cell** in use has a cathode that is the positive terminal since that is where conventional current flows out of the device. This outward current is carried internally by positive ions moving from the electr...
33. ...energy is responsible for this "uphill" motion). It is continued externally by electrons moving into the battery which constitutes positive current flowing outwards. For example, the Daniell galvanic **cell**'s copper electrode is the positive terminal and the cathode. A battery that is recharging or an electrolytic cell performing electrolysis has its cathode as the negative terminal, from which current...
34. ...hich constitutes positive current flowing outwards. For example, the Daniell galvanic cell's copper electrode is the positive terminal and the cathode. A battery that is recharging or an electrolytic **cell** performing electrolysis has its cathode as the negative terminal, from which current exits the device and returns to the external generator as charge enters the battery/ cell. For example, reversing...
35. ...rging or an electrolytic cell performing electrolysis has its cathode as the negative terminal, from which current exits the device and returns to the external generator as charge enters the battery/ **cell**. For example, reversing the current direction in a Daniell galvanic cell converts it into an electrolytic cell where the copper electrode is the positive terminal and also the anode. In a diode, the...
36. ...the negative terminal, from which current exits the device and returns to the external generator as charge enters the battery/ cell. For example, reversing the current direction in a Daniell galvanic **cell** converts it into an electrolytic cell where the copper electrode is the positive terminal and also the anode. In a diode, the cathode is the negative terminal at the pointed end of the arrow symbol,...
37. ...ent exits the device and returns to the external generator as charge enters the battery/ cell. For example, reversing the current direction in a Daniell galvanic cell converts it into an electrolytic **cell** where the copper electrode is the positive terminal and also the anode. In a diode, the cathode is the negative terminal at the pointed end of the arrow symbol, where current flows out of the device....
38. ...who had been consulted by Michael Faraday over some new names needed to complete a paper on the recently discovered process of electrolysis. In that paper Faraday explained that when an electrolytic **cell** is oriented so that electric current traverses the "decomposing body" (electrolyte) in a direction "from East to West, or, which will strengthen this help to the memory, that in which the sun appears...
39. ...at the time. The reference he used to this effect was the Earth's magnetic field direction, which at that time was believed to be invariant. He fundamentally defined his arbitrary orientation for the **cell** as being that in which the internal current would run parallel to and in the same direction as a hypothetical magnetizing current loop around the local line of latitude which would induce a magnetic...
40. ...tron, an easier to remember, and more durably technically correct (although historically false), etymology has been suggested: cathode, from the Greek "kathodos", 'way down', 'the way (down) into the **cell** (or other device) for electrons'. In chemistry, a cathode is the electrode of an electrochemical cell at which reduction occurs. The cathode can be negative like when the cell is electrolytic (where...
41. ...logy has been suggested: cathode, from the Greek "kathodos", 'way down', 'the way (down) into the cell (or other device) for electrons'. In chemistry, a cathode is the electrode of an electrochemical **cell** at which reduction occurs. The cathode can be negative like when the cell is electrolytic (where electrical energy provided to the cell is being used for decomposing chemical compounds); or positive...
42. ...the way (down) into the cell (or other device) for electrons'. In chemistry, a cathode is the electrode of an electrochemical cell at which reduction occurs. The cathode can be negative like when the **cell** is electrolytic (where electrical energy provided to the cell is being used for decomposing chemical compounds); or positive as when the cell is galvanic (where chemical reactions are used for genera...
43. ...In chemistry, a cathode is the electrode of an electrochemical cell at which reduction occurs. The cathode can be negative like when the cell is electrolytic (where electrical energy provided to the **cell** is being used for decomposing chemical compounds); or positive as when the cell is galvanic (where chemical reactions are used for generating electrical energy). The cathode supplies electrons to the...
44. ...duction occurs. The cathode can be negative like when the cell is electrolytic (where electrical energy provided to the cell is being used for decomposing chemical compounds); or positive as when the **cell** is galvanic (where chemical reactions are used for generating electrical energy). The cathode supplies electrons to the positively charged cations which flow to it from the electrolyte (even if the c...
45. ...l is galvanic (where chemical reactions are used for generating electrical energy). The cathode supplies electrons to the positively charged cations which flow to it from the electrolyte (even if the **cell** is galvanic, i.e., when the cathode is positive and therefore would be expected to repel the positively charged cations; this is due to electrode potential relative to the electrolyte solution being...
46. ...cted to repel the positively charged cations; this is due to electrode potential relative to the electrolyte solution being different for the anode and cathode metal/electrolyte systems in a galvanic **cell**). The cathodic current, in electrochemistry, is the flow of electrons from the cathode interface to a species in solution. The anodic current is the flow of electrons into the anode from a species in...
47. ...ectrochemistry, is the flow of electrons from the cathode interface to a species in solution. The anodic current is the flow of electrons into the anode from a species in solution. In an electrolytic **cell**, the cathode is where the negative polarity is applied to drive the cell. Common results of reduction at the cathode are hydrogen gas or pure metal from metal ions. When discussing the relative reduc...
48. ...species in solution. The anodic current is the flow of electrons into the anode from a species in solution. In an electrolytic cell, the cathode is where the negative polarity is applied to drive the **cell**. Common results of reduction at the cathode are hydrogen gas or pure metal from metal ions. When discussing the relative reducing power of two redox agents, the couple for generating the more reducin...
49. ...ssing the relative reducing power of two redox agents, the couple for generating the more reducing species is said to be more "cathodic" with respect to the more easily reduced reagent. In a galvanic **cell**, the cathode is where the positive pole is connected to allow the circuit to be completed: as the anode of the galvanic cell gives off electrons, they return from the circuit into the cell through th...
50. ..."cathodic" with respect to the more easily reduced reagent. In a galvanic cell, the cathode is where the positive pole is connected to allow the circuit to be completed: as the anode of the galvanic **cell** gives off electrons, they return from the circuit into the cell through the cathode. When metal ions are reduced from ionic solution, they form a pure metal surface on the cathode. Items to be plated...
51. ...a galvanic cell, the cathode is where the positive pole is connected to allow the circuit to be completed: as the anode of the galvanic cell gives off electrons, they return from the circuit into the **cell** through the cathode. When metal ions are reduced from ionic solution, they form a pure metal surface on the cathode. Items to be plated with pure metal are attached to and become part of the cathode...
52. ...decrease of its activation energy. Linear particle accelerators generate electron beams for treatment of superficial tumors in radiation therapy. Electron therapy can treat such skin lesions as basal-**cell** carcinomas because an electron beam only penetrates to a limited depth before being absorbed, typically up to 5 cm for electron energies in the range 5–20 MeV. An electron beam can be used to supplem...
53. ...magnetism and electricity. According to a controversial theory, the Parthians may have had knowledge of electroplating, based on the 1936 discovery of the Baghdad Battery, which resembles a galvanic **cell**, though it is uncertain whether the artifact was electrical in nature. Electricity would remain little more than an intellectual curiosity for millennia until 1600, when the English scientist William...
54. ...of which the best known example is the electric eel, detect or stun their prey via high voltages generated from modified muscle cells called electrocytes. All animals transmit information along their **cell** membranes with voltage pulses called action potentials, whose functions include communication by the nervous system between neurons and muscles. An electric shock stimulates this system, and causes m...
55. ...olution). When a chemical reaction is driven by an electrical potential difference, as in electrolysis, or if a potential difference results from a chemical reaction as in an electric battery or fuel **cell**, it is called an "electrochemical" reaction. Unlike in other chemical reactions, in electrochemical reactions electrons are not transferred directly between atoms, ions, or molecules, but via the afo...
56. ...s. By 1801, Ritter observed thermoelectric currents and anticipated the discovery of thermoelectricity by Thomas Johann Seebeck. By the 1810s, William Hyde Wollaston made improvements to the galvanic **cell**. Sir Humphry Davy's work with electrolysis led to the conclusion that the production of electricity in simple electrolytic cells resulted from chemical action and that chemical combination occurred b...
57. ...Mathematically) in which he gave his complete theory of electricity. In 1832, Michael Faraday's experiments led him to state his two laws of electrochemistry. In 1836, John Daniell invented a primary **cell** which solved the problem of polarization by introducing copper ions into the solution near the positive electrode and thus eliminating hydrogen gas generation. Later results revealed that at the othe...
58. ...g hydrogen gas generation. Later results revealed that at the other electrode, amalgamated zinc (i.e., zinc alloyed with mercury) would produce a higher voltage. William Grove produced the first fuel **cell** in 1839. In 1846, Wilhelm Weber developed the electrodynamometer. In 1868, Georges Leclanché patented a new cell which eventually became the forerunner to the world's first widely used battery, the z...
59. ...ed with mercury) would produce a higher voltage. William Grove produced the first fuel cell in 1839. In 1846, Wilhelm Weber developed the electrodynamometer. In 1868, Georges Leclanché patented a new **cell** which eventually became the forerunner to the world's first widely used battery, the zinc–carbon cell. Svante Arrhenius published his thesis in 1884 on "Recherches sur la conductibilité galvanique de...
60. ...n 1846, Wilhelm Weber developed the electrodynamometer. In 1868, Georges Leclanché patented a new cell which eventually became the forerunner to the world's first widely used battery, the zinc–carbon **cell**. Svante Arrhenius published his thesis in 1884 on "Recherches sur la conductibilité galvanique des électrolytes" (Investigations on the galvanic conductivity of electrolytes). From his results the au...
61. ...Friedrich Ostwald concluded important studies of the conductivity and electrolytic dissociation of organic acids. Walther Hermann Nernst developed the theory of the electromotive force of the voltaic **cell** in 1888. In 1889, he showed how the characteristics of the voltage produced could be used to calculate the free energy change in the chemical reaction producing the voltage. He constructed an equatio...
62. ...voltage produced could be used to calculate the free energy change in the chemical reaction producing the voltage. He constructed an equation, known as Nernst equation, which related the voltage of a **cell** to its properties. In 1898, Fritz Haber showed that definite reduction products can result from electrolytic processes if the potential at the cathode is kept constant. In 1898, he explained the redu...
63. ...en implies reduction. Electrochemical reactions in water are better analyzed by using the ion-electron method, where H, OH ion, HO and electrons (to compensate the oxidation changes) are added to the **cell**'s half-reactions for oxidation and reduction. In acidic medium, H ions and water are added to balance each half-reaction. For example, when manganese reacts with sodium bismuthate. Finally, the react...
64. ...lance the complete combustion of propane: By multiplying the stoichiometric coefficients so the numbers of electrons in both half reaction match: the balanced equation is obtained: An electrochemical **cell** is a device that produces an electric current from energy released by a spontaneous redox reaction. This kind of cell includes the Galvanic cell or Voltaic cell, named after Luigi Galvani and Alessan...
65. ...n both half reaction match: the balanced equation is obtained: An electrochemical cell is a device that produces an electric current from energy released by a spontaneous redox reaction. This kind of **cell** includes the Galvanic cell or Voltaic cell, named after Luigi Galvani and Alessandro Volta, both scientists who conducted experiments on chemical reactions and electric current during the late 18th c...
66. ...the balanced equation is obtained: An electrochemical cell is a device that produces an electric current from energy released by a spontaneous redox reaction. This kind of cell includes the Galvanic **cell** or Voltaic cell, named after Luigi Galvani and Alessandro Volta, both scientists who conducted experiments on chemical reactions and electric current during the late 18th century. Electrochemical cel...
67. ...uation is obtained: An electrochemical cell is a device that produces an electric current from energy released by a spontaneous redox reaction. This kind of cell includes the Galvanic cell or Voltaic **cell**, named after Luigi Galvani and Alessandro Volta, both scientists who conducted experiments on chemical reactions and electric current during the late 18th century. Electrochemical cells have two cond...
68. ...ly conductive materials, such as metals, semiconductors, graphite, and even conductive polymers. In between these electrodes is the electrolyte, which contains ions that can freely move. The galvanic **cell** uses two different metal electrodes, each in an electrolyte where the positively charged ions are the oxidized form of the electrode metal. One electrode will undergo oxidation (the anode) and the ot...
69. ...nd flow through this connection to the ions at the surface of the cathode. This flow of electrons is an electric current that can be used to do work, such as turn a motor or power a light. A galvanic **cell** whose electrodes are zinc and copper submerged in zinc sulfate and copper sulfate, respectively, is known as a Daniell cell. The half reactions in a Daniell cell are as follows: In this example, the...
70. ...t can be used to do work, such as turn a motor or power a light. A galvanic cell whose electrodes are zinc and copper submerged in zinc sulfate and copper sulfate, respectively, is known as a Daniell **cell**. The half reactions in a Daniell cell are as follows: In this example, the anode is the zinc metal which is oxidized (loses electrons) to form zinc ions in solution, and copper ions accept electrons...
71. ...a motor or power a light. A galvanic cell whose electrodes are zinc and copper submerged in zinc sulfate and copper sulfate, respectively, is known as a Daniell cell. The half reactions in a Daniell **cell** are as follows: In this example, the anode is the zinc metal which is oxidized (loses electrons) to form zinc ions in solution, and copper ions accept electrons from the copper metal electrode and th...
72. ...ich is oxidized (loses electrons) to form zinc ions in solution, and copper ions accept electrons from the copper metal electrode and the ions deposit at the copper cathode as an electrodeposit. This **cell** forms a simple battery as it will spontaneously generate a flow of electric current from the anode to the cathode through the external connection. This reaction can be driven in reverse by applying a...
73. ...ely charged metal ions flow in the opposite direction in the electrolyte. A voltmeter is capable of measuring the change of electrical potential between the anode and the cathode. The electrochemical **cell** voltage is also referred to as electromotive force or emf. A cell diagram can be used to trace the path of the electrons in the electrochemical cell. For example, here is a cell diagram of a Daniell...
74. ...rolyte. A voltmeter is capable of measuring the change of electrical potential between the anode and the cathode. The electrochemical cell voltage is also referred to as electromotive force or emf. A **cell** diagram can be used to trace the path of the electrons in the electrochemical cell. For example, here is a cell diagram of a Daniell cell: First, the reduced form of the metal to be oxidized at the a...
75. ...een the anode and the cathode. The electrochemical cell voltage is also referred to as electromotive force or emf. A cell diagram can be used to trace the path of the electrons in the electrochemical **cell**. For example, here is a cell diagram of a Daniell cell: First, the reduced form of the metal to be oxidized at the anode (Zn) is written. This is separated from its oxidized form by a vertical line,...
76. .... The electrochemical cell voltage is also referred to as electromotive force or emf. A cell diagram can be used to trace the path of the electrons in the electrochemical cell. For example, here is a **cell** diagram of a Daniell cell: First, the reduced form of the metal to be oxidized at the anode (Zn) is written. This is separated from its oxidized form by a vertical line, which represents the limit be...
77. ...voltage is also referred to as electromotive force or emf. A cell diagram can be used to trace the path of the electrons in the electrochemical cell. For example, here is a cell diagram of a Daniell **cell**: First, the reduced form of the metal to be oxidized at the anode (Zn) is written. This is separated from its oxidized form by a vertical line, which represents the limit between the phases (oxidatio...
78. ...s written. This is separated from its oxidized form by a vertical line, which represents the limit between the phases (oxidation changes). The double vertical lines represent the saline bridge on the **cell**. Finally, the oxidized form of the metal to be reduced at the cathode, is written, separated from its reduced form by the vertical line. The electrolyte concentration is given as it is an important v...
79. ...he metal to be reduced at the cathode, is written, separated from its reduced form by the vertical line. The electrolyte concentration is given as it is an important variable in determining the exact **cell** potential. To allow prediction of the cell potential, tabulations of standard electrode potential are available. Such tabulations are referenced to the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE). The standard...
80. ...ritten, separated from its reduced form by the vertical line. The electrolyte concentration is given as it is an important variable in determining the exact cell potential. To allow prediction of the **cell** potential, tabulations of standard electrode potential are available. Such tabulations are referenced to the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE). The standard hydrogen electrode undergoes the reaction...
81. ...trolyte with H activity equal to 1 (usually assumed to be [H] = 1 mol/liter, i.e. pH = 0). The SHE electrode can be connected to any other electrode by a salt bridge and an external circuit to form a **cell**. If the second electrode is also at standard conditions, then the measured cell potential is called the standard electrode potential for the electrode. The standard electrode potential for the SHE is...
82. .... pH = 0). The SHE electrode can be connected to any other electrode by a salt bridge and an external circuit to form a cell. If the second electrode is also at standard conditions, then the measured **cell** potential is called the standard electrode potential for the electrode. The standard electrode potential for the SHE is zero, by definition. The polarity of the standard electrode potential provides...
83. ...tandard electrode potential is −0.76 V). Standard electrode potentials are usually tabulated as reduction potentials. However, the reactions are reversible and the role of a particular electrode in a **cell** depends on the relative oxidation/reduction potential of both electrodes. The oxidation potential for a particular electrode is just the negative of the reduction potential. A standard cell potential...
84. ...rode in a cell depends on the relative oxidation/reduction potential of both electrodes. The oxidation potential for a particular electrode is just the negative of the reduction potential. A standard **cell** potential can be determined by looking up the standard electrode potentials for both electrodes (sometimes called half cell potentials). The one that is smaller will be the anode and will undergo oxi...
85. ...cular electrode is just the negative of the reduction potential. A standard cell potential can be determined by looking up the standard electrode potentials for both electrodes (sometimes called half **cell** potentials). The one that is smaller will be the anode and will undergo oxidation. The cell potential is then calculated as the sum of the reduction potential for the cathode and the oxidation potent...
86. ...an be determined by looking up the standard electrode potentials for both electrodes (sometimes called half cell potentials). The one that is smaller will be the anode and will undergo oxidation. The **cell** potential is then calculated as the sum of the reduction potential for the cathode and the oxidation potential for the anode. For example, the standard electrode potential for a copper electrode is:...
87. ...potential is then calculated as the sum of the reduction potential for the cathode and the oxidation potential for the anode. For example, the standard electrode potential for a copper electrode is: "**Cell** diagram" At standard temperature, pressure and concentration conditions, the cell's emf (measured by a multimeter) is 0.34 V. By definition, the electrode potential for the SHE is zero. Thus, the Cu...
88. ...and the oxidation potential for the anode. For example, the standard electrode potential for a copper electrode is: "Cell diagram" At standard temperature, pressure and concentration conditions, the **cell**'s emf (measured by a multimeter) is 0.34 V. By definition, the electrode potential for the SHE is zero. Thus, the Cu is the cathode and the SHE is the anode giving Or, Changes in the stoichiometric c...
89. ...imeter) is 0.34 V. By definition, the electrode potential for the SHE is zero. Thus, the Cu is the cathode and the SHE is the anode giving Or, Changes in the stoichiometric coefficients of a balanced **cell** equation will not change the "E"° value because the standard electrode potential is an intensive property. During operation of an electrochemical cell, chemical energy is transformed into electrical...
90. ...in the stoichiometric coefficients of a balanced cell equation will not change the "E"° value because the standard electrode potential is an intensive property. During operation of an electrochemical **cell**, chemical energy is transformed into electrical energy. This can be expressed mathematically as the product of the cell's emf "E" measured in volts (V) and the electric charge "Q" transferred through...
91. ...rode potential is an intensive property. During operation of an electrochemical cell, chemical energy is transformed into electrical energy. This can be expressed mathematically as the product of the **cell**'s emf "E" measured in volts (V) and the electric charge "Q" transferred through the external circuit. "Q" is the cell current integrated over time and measured in coulombs (C); it can also be determi...
92. ...nto electrical energy. This can be expressed mathematically as the product of the cell's emf "E" measured in volts (V) and the electric charge "Q" transferred through the external circuit. "Q" is the **cell** current integrated over time and measured in coulombs (C); it can also be determined by multiplying the total number "n" of electrons transferred (measured in moles) times Faraday's constant ("F"). T...
93. ...rated over time and measured in coulombs (C); it can also be determined by multiplying the total number "n" of electrons transferred (measured in moles) times Faraday's constant ("F"). The emf of the **cell** at zero current is the maximum possible emf. It can be used to calculate the maximum possible electrical energy that could be obtained from a chemical reaction. This energy is referred to as electric...
94. ...ation: where work is defined as positive when it increases the energy of the system. Since the free energy is the maximum amount of work that can be extracted from a system, one can write: A positive **cell** potential gives a negative change in Gibbs free energy. This is consistent with the cell production of an electric current from the cathode to the anode through the external circuit. If the current i...
95. ...e the free energy is the maximum amount of work that can be extracted from a system, one can write: A positive cell potential gives a negative change in Gibbs free energy. This is consistent with the **cell** production of an electric current from the cathode to the anode through the external circuit. If the current is driven in the opposite direction by imposing an external potential, then work is done o...
96. ...ction of an electric current from the cathode to the anode through the external circuit. If the current is driven in the opposite direction by imposing an external potential, then work is done on the **cell** to drive electrolysis. A spontaneous electrochemical reaction (change in Gibbs free energy less than zero) can be used to generate an electric current in electrochemical cells. This is the basis of a...
97. ...ro) can be used to generate an electric current in electrochemical cells. This is the basis of all batteries and fuel cells. For example, gaseous oxygen (O) and hydrogen (H) can be combined in a fuel **cell** to form water and energy, typically a combination of heat and electrical energy. Conversely, non-spontaneous electrochemical reactions can be driven forward by the application of a current at suffici...
98. ...fficient voltage. The electrolysis of water into gaseous oxygen and hydrogen is a typical example. The relation between the equilibrium constant, "K", and the Gibbs free energy for an electrochemical **cell** is expressed as follows: Rearranging to express the relation between standard potential and equilibrium constant yields At "T" = 298 K, the previous equation can be rewritten using the Briggsian loga...
99. ...etween standard potential and equilibrium constant yields At "T" = 298 K, the previous equation can be rewritten using the Briggsian logarithm as follows: The standard potential of an electrochemical **cell** requires standard conditions (Δ"G"°) for all of the reactants. When reactant concentrations differ from standard conditions, the cell potential will deviate from the standard potential. In the 20th c...
100. ...ogarithm as follows: The standard potential of an electrochemical cell requires standard conditions (Δ"G"°) for all of the reactants. When reactant concentrations differ from standard conditions, the **cell** potential will deviate from the standard potential. In the 20th century German chemist Walther Nernst proposed a mathematical model to determine the effect of reactant concentration on electrochemica...
101. ...otential will deviate from the standard potential. In the 20th century German chemist Walther Nernst proposed a mathematical model to determine the effect of reactant concentration on electrochemical **cell** potential. In the late 19th century, Josiah Willard Gibbs had formulated a theory to predict whether a chemical reaction is spontaneous based on the free energy Here Δ"G" is change in Gibbs free ener...
102. ...e late 19th century, Josiah Willard Gibbs had formulated a theory to predict whether a chemical reaction is spontaneous based on the free energy Here Δ"G" is change in Gibbs free energy, Δ"G"° is the **cell** potential when "Q" is equal to 1, "T" is absolute temperature (Kelvin), "R" is the gas constant and "Q" is the reaction quotient, which can be calculated by dividing concentrations of products by tho...
103. ...ibbs' work, Nernst extended the theory to include the contribution from electric potential on charged species. As shown in the previous section, the change in Gibbs free energy for an electrochemical **cell** can be related to the cell potential. Thus, Gibbs' theory becomes Here "n" is the number of electrons (in moles), "F" is the Faraday constant (in coulombs/mole), and Δ"E" is the cell potential (in vo...
104. ...the theory to include the contribution from electric potential on charged species. As shown in the previous section, the change in Gibbs free energy for an electrochemical cell can be related to the **cell** potential. Thus, Gibbs' theory becomes Here "n" is the number of electrons (in moles), "F" is the Faraday constant (in coulombs/mole), and Δ"E" is the cell potential (in volts). Finally, Nernst divid...
105. ...electrochemical cell can be related to the cell potential. Thus, Gibbs' theory becomes Here "n" is the number of electrons (in moles), "F" is the Faraday constant (in coulombs/mole), and Δ"E" is the **cell** potential (in volts). Finally, Nernst divided through by the amount of charge transferred to arrive at a new equation which now bears his name: Assuming standard conditions ("T" = 298 K or 25 °C) and...
106. ...e study of plasmas and semiconductors as well. The value 0.05916 V in the above equation is just the thermal voltage at standard temperature multiplied by the natural logarithm of 10. A concentration **cell** is an electrochemical cell where the two electrodes are the same material, the electrolytes on the two half-cells involve the same ions, but the electrolyte concentration differs between the two half...
107. ...conductors as well. The value 0.05916 V in the above equation is just the thermal voltage at standard temperature multiplied by the natural logarithm of 10. A concentration cell is an electrochemical **cell** where the two electrodes are the same material, the electrolytes on the two half-cells involve the same ions, but the electrolyte concentration differs between the two half-cells. An example is an el...
108. ...electrodes are the same material, the electrolytes on the two half-cells involve the same ions, but the electrolyte concentration differs between the two half-cells. An example is an electrochemical **cell**, where two copper electrodes are submerged in two copper(II) sulfate solutions, whose concentrations are 0.05 M and 2.0 M, connected through a salt bridge. This type of cell will generate a potential...
109. ...ple is an electrochemical cell, where two copper electrodes are submerged in two copper(II) sulfate solutions, whose concentrations are 0.05 M and 2.0 M, connected through a salt bridge. This type of **cell** will generate a potential that can be predicted by the Nernst equation. Both can undergo the same chemistry (although the reaction proceeds in reverse at the anode) Le Chatelier's principle indicates...
110. ...ction proceeds in reverse at the anode) Le Chatelier's principle indicates that the reaction is more favorable to reduction as the concentration of Cu ions increases. Reduction will take place in the **cell**'s compartment where the concentration is higher and oxidation will occur on the more dilute side. The following cell diagram describes the concentration cell mentioned above: where the half cell reac...
111. ...uction as the concentration of Cu ions increases. Reduction will take place in the cell's compartment where the concentration is higher and oxidation will occur on the more dilute side. The following **cell** diagram describes the concentration cell mentioned above: where the half cell reactions for oxidation and reduction are: The cell's emf is calculated through the Nernst equation as follows: The value...
112. ...creases. Reduction will take place in the cell's compartment where the concentration is higher and oxidation will occur on the more dilute side. The following cell diagram describes the concentration **cell** mentioned above: where the half cell reactions for oxidation and reduction are: The cell's emf is calculated through the Nernst equation as follows: The value of "E"° in this kind of cell is zero, as...
113. ...the cell's compartment where the concentration is higher and oxidation will occur on the more dilute side. The following cell diagram describes the concentration cell mentioned above: where the half **cell** reactions for oxidation and reduction are: The cell's emf is calculated through the Nernst equation as follows: The value of "E"° in this kind of cell is zero, as electrodes and ions are the same in...
114. ...igher and oxidation will occur on the more dilute side. The following cell diagram describes the concentration cell mentioned above: where the half cell reactions for oxidation and reduction are: The **cell**'s emf is calculated through the Nernst equation as follows: The value of "E"° in this kind of cell is zero, as electrodes and ions are the same in both half-cells. After replacing values from the cas...
115. ...ncentration cell mentioned above: where the half cell reactions for oxidation and reduction are: The cell's emf is calculated through the Nernst equation as follows: The value of "E"° in this kind of **cell** is zero, as electrodes and ions are the same in both half-cells. After replacing values from the case mentioned, it is possible to calculate cell's potential: or by: However, this value is only appro...
116. ...quation as follows: The value of "E"° in this kind of cell is zero, as electrodes and ions are the same in both half-cells. After replacing values from the case mentioned, it is possible to calculate **cell**'s potential: or by: However, this value is only approximate, as reaction quotient is defined in terms of ion activities which can be approximated with the concentrations as calculated here. The Nerns...
117. ...Nernst equation plays an important role in understanding electrical effects in cells and organelles. Such effects include nerve synapses and cardiac beat as well as the resting potential of a somatic **cell**. Many types of battery have been commercialized and represent an important practical application of electrochemistry. Early wet cells powered the first telegraph and telephone systems, and were the s...
118. ...portant practical application of electrochemistry. Early wet cells powered the first telegraph and telephone systems, and were the source of current for electroplating. The zinc-manganese dioxide dry **cell** was the first portable, non-spillable battery type that made flashlights and other portable devices practical. The mercury battery using zinc and mercuric oxide provided higher levels of power and ca...
119. ...spillable battery type that made flashlights and other portable devices practical. The mercury battery using zinc and mercuric oxide provided higher levels of power and capacity than the original dry **cell** for early electronic devices, but has been phased out of common use due to the danger of mercury pollution from discarded cells. The lead–acid battery was the first practical secondary (rechargeable)...
120. ...battery to still be functional after 7–10 years. Lead-acid cells continue to be widely used in automobiles. All the preceding types have water-based electrolytes, which limits the maximum voltage per **cell**. The freezing of water limits low temperature performance. The lithium metal battery, which does not (and cannot) use water in the electrolyte, provides improved performance over other types; a recha...
121. ...ial part of many mobile devices. The flow battery, an experimental type, offers the option of vastly larger energy capacity because its reactants can be replenished from external reservoirs. The fuel **cell** can turn the chemical energy bound in hydrocarbon gases or hydrogen and oxygen directly into electrical energy with a much higher efficiency than any combustion process; such devices have powered man...
122. ...nd anode in the electrolyte. However, electrolysis requires an external source of electrical energy to induce a chemical reaction, and this process takes place in a compartment called an electrolytic **cell**. When molten, the salt sodium chloride can be electrolyzed to yield metallic sodium and gaseous chlorine. Industrially this process takes place in a special cell named Downs cell. The cell is connect...
123. ...a compartment called an electrolytic cell. When molten, the salt sodium chloride can be electrolyzed to yield metallic sodium and gaseous chlorine. Industrially this process takes place in a special **cell** named Downs cell. The cell is connected to an electrical power supply, allowing electrons to migrate from the power supply to the electrolytic cell. Reactions that take place in a Downs cell are the...
124. ...lled an electrolytic cell. When molten, the salt sodium chloride can be electrolyzed to yield metallic sodium and gaseous chlorine. Industrially this process takes place in a special cell named Downs **cell**. The cell is connected to an electrical power supply, allowing electrons to migrate from the power supply to the electrolytic cell. Reactions that take place in a Downs cell are the following: This p...
125. ...ectrolytic cell. When molten, the salt sodium chloride can be electrolyzed to yield metallic sodium and gaseous chlorine. Industrially this process takes place in a special cell named Downs cell. The **cell** is connected to an electrical power supply, allowing electrons to migrate from the power supply to the electrolytic cell. Reactions that take place in a Downs cell are the following: This process can...
126. ...Industrially this process takes place in a special cell named Downs cell. The cell is connected to an electrical power supply, allowing electrons to migrate from the power supply to the electrolytic **cell**. Reactions that take place in a Downs cell are the following: This process can yield large amounts of metallic sodium and gaseous chlorine, and is widely used in mineral dressing and metallurgy indus...
127. ...special cell named Downs cell. The cell is connected to an electrical power supply, allowing electrons to migrate from the power supply to the electrolytic cell. Reactions that take place in a Downs **cell** are the following: This process can yield large amounts of metallic sodium and gaseous chlorine, and is widely used in mineral dressing and metallurgy industries. The emf for this process is approxim...
128. ...eously as the Gibbs free energy change for the process at standard conditions is very positive, about 474.4 kJ. The decomposition of water into hydrogen and oxygen can be performed in an electrolytic **cell**. In it, a pair of inert electrodes usually made of platinum immersed in water act as anode and cathode in the electrolytic process. The electrolysis starts with the application of an external voltage...
129. ...y concluded after several experiments on electric current in a non-spontaneous process that the mass of the products yielded on the electrodes was proportional to the value of current supplied to the **cell**, the length of time the current existed, and the molar mass of the substance analyzed. In other words, the amount of a substance deposited on each electrode of an electrolytic cell is directly propor...
130. ...nt supplied to the cell, the length of time the current existed, and the molar mass of the substance analyzed. In other words, the amount of a substance deposited on each electrode of an electrolytic **cell** is directly proportional to the quantity of electricity passed through the cell. Below is a simplified equation of Faraday's first law: where Faraday devised the laws of chemical electrodeposition of...
131. ...ass of the substance analyzed. In other words, the amount of a substance deposited on each electrode of an electrolytic cell is directly proportional to the quantity of electricity passed through the **cell**. Below is a simplified equation of Faraday's first law: where Faraday devised the laws of chemical electrodeposition of metals from solutions in 1857. He formulated the second law of electrolysis sta...
132. ...on of an electrode used to study static electricity. Electrodes are an essential part of any battery. The first electrochemical battery was devised by Alessandro Volta and was aptly named the Voltaic **cell**. This battery consisted of a stack of copper and zinc electrodes separated by brine-soaked paper disks. Due to fluctuation in the voltage provided by the voltaic cell, it was not very practical. The...
133. ...and was aptly named the Voltaic cell. This battery consisted of a stack of copper and zinc electrodes separated by brine-soaked paper disks. Due to fluctuation in the voltage provided by the voltaic **cell**, it was not very practical. The first practical battery was invented in 1839 and named the Daniell cell after John Frederic Daniell. It still made use of the zinc–copper electrode combination. Since...
134. ...eparated by brine-soaked paper disks. Due to fluctuation in the voltage provided by the voltaic cell, it was not very practical. The first practical battery was invented in 1839 and named the Daniell **cell** after John Frederic Daniell. It still made use of the zinc–copper electrode combination. Since then, many more batteries have been developed using various materials. The basis of all these is still u...
135. ...derived from the Greek words ἄνο (ano), 'upwards' and ὁδός (hodós), 'a way'. The anode is the electrode through which the conventional current enters from the electrical circuit of an electrochemical **cell** (battery) into the non-metallic cell. The electrons then flow to the other side of the battery. Benjamin Franklin surmised that the electrical flow moved from positive to negative. The electrons flow...
136. ...), 'upwards' and ὁδός (hodós), 'a way'. The anode is the electrode through which the conventional current enters from the electrical circuit of an electrochemical cell (battery) into the non-metallic **cell**. The electrons then flow to the other side of the battery. Benjamin Franklin surmised that the electrical flow moved from positive to negative. The electrons flow away from the anode and the conventi...
137. ...ato), 'downwards' and ὁδός (hodós), 'a way'. It is the positive electrode, meaning the electrons flow from the electrical circuit through the cathode into the non-metallic part of the electrochemical **cell**. At the cathode, the reduction reaction takes place with the electrons arriving from the wire connected to the cathode and are absorbed by the oxidizing agent. A primary cell is a battery designed to...
138. ...t of the electrochemical cell. At the cathode, the reduction reaction takes place with the electrons arriving from the wire connected to the cathode and are absorbed by the oxidizing agent. A primary **cell** is a battery designed to be used once and then discarded. This is due to the electrochemical reactions taking place at the electrodes in the cell not being reversible. An example of a primary cell is...
139. ...de and are absorbed by the oxidizing agent. A primary cell is a battery designed to be used once and then discarded. This is due to the electrochemical reactions taking place at the electrodes in the **cell** not being reversible. An example of a primary cell is the discardable alkaline battery commonly used in flashlights. Consisting of a zinc anode and a manganese oxide cathode in which ZnO is formed. T...
140. ...ry cell is a battery designed to be used once and then discarded. This is due to the electrochemical reactions taking place at the electrodes in the cell not being reversible. An example of a primary **cell** is the discardable alkaline battery commonly used in flashlights. Consisting of a zinc anode and a manganese oxide cathode in which ZnO is formed. The half-reactions are: Overall reaction: The ZnO is...
141. ...recharge these batteries but is due to safety concerns advised against by the manufacturer. Other primary cells include zinc–carbon, zinc–chloride, and lithium iron disulfide. Contrary to the primary **cell** a secondary cell can be recharged. The first was the lead–acid battery, invented in 1859 by French physicist Gaston Planté. This type of battery is still the most widely used in among others automobi...
142. ...tteries but is due to safety concerns advised against by the manufacturer. Other primary cells include zinc–carbon, zinc–chloride, and lithium iron disulfide. Contrary to the primary cell a secondary **cell** can be recharged. The first was the lead–acid battery, invented in 1859 by French physicist Gaston Planté. This type of battery is still the most widely used in among others automobiles. The cathode...
143. ...The electrons enter the device through the cathode and exit the device through the anode. Many devices have other electrodes to control operation, e.g., base, gate, control grid. In a three-electrode **cell**, a counter electrode, also called an auxiliary electrode, is used only to make a connection to the electrolyte so that a current can be applied to the working electrode. The counter electrode is usua...
144. ...important industrial use for new gold is in fabrication of corrosion-free electrical connectors in computers and other electrical devices. For example, according to the World Gold Council, a typical **cell** phone may contain 50 mg of gold, worth about three dollars. But since nearly one billion cell phones are produced each year, a gold value of US$2.82 in each phone adds to US$2.82 billion in gold from...
145. ...rs in computers and other electrical devices. For example, according to the World Gold Council, a typical cell phone may contain 50 mg of gold, worth about three dollars. But since nearly one billion **cell** phones are produced each year, a gold value of US$2.82 in each phone adds to US$2.82 billion in gold from just this application. (Prices updated to November 2022) Though gold is attacked by free chlo...
146. ...xyl radical, the hydrogen atom and solvated electrons). These radicals cause further chemical changes by bonding with and or stripping particles from nearby molecules. When collisions occur in cells, **cell** division is often suppressed, halting or slowing the processes that cause the food to mature. When the process damages DNA or RNA, effective reproduction becomes unlikely halting the population growt...
147. ...lated. Some of this induced resistance is understood, being the result of temporary inactivation of self-degradation enzymes like polygalacturonase and increased expression of enzymes associated with **cell** wall repair. Irradiation is a capital-intensive technology requiring a substantial initial investment, ranging from $1 million to $5 million. In the case of large research or contract irradiation fac...
148. ...ren's products in the US in 2008 by US Congress; the PVC-DEHP combination had proved to be very suitable for making blood bags because DEHP stabilizes red blood cells, minimizing hemolysis (red blood **cell** rupture). However, DEHP is coming under increasing pressure in Europe. The assessment of potential risks related to phthalates, and in particular the use of DEHP in PVC medical devices, was subject t...
149. ...cknesses and colors. As flat sheets, PVC is often expanded to create voids in the interior of the material, providing additional thickness without additional weight and minimal extra cost (see closed-**cell** PVC foamboard). Sheets are cut using saws and rotary cutting equipment. Plasticized PVC is also used to produce thin, colored, or clear, adhesive-backed films referred to simply as "vinyl". These fil...
150. ...groups (as in cane sugar). The dipole density or polarization (dimensionality [C·m/m] ) may easily be calculated for crystals by summing up the dipole moments per volume of the crystallographic unit **cell**. As every dipole is a vector, the dipole density P is a vector field. Dipoles near each other tend to be aligned in regions called Weiss domains. The domains are usually randomly oriented, but can be...
151. ...class 432). Ten of these represent the polar crystal classes, which show a spontaneous polarization without mechanical stress due to a non-vanishing electric dipole moment associated with their unit **cell**, and which exhibit pyroelectricity. If the dipole moment can be reversed by applying an external electric field, the material is said to be ferroelectric. For polar crystals, for which P ≠ 0 holds wi...
152. ...ns to develop an electricity generating tire which has piezoelectric material lined inside it. As the tire moves, it deforms and thus electricity is generated. The efficiency of a hybrid photovoltaic **cell** that contains piezoelectric materials can be increased simply by placing it near a source of ambient noise or vibration. The effect was demonstrated with organic cells using zinc oxide nanotubes. The...
153. ...is called radiation oncology. A physician who practices in this subspecialty is a radiation oncologist. Radiation therapy is commonly applied to the cancerous tumor because of its ability to control **cell** growth. Ionizing radiation works by damaging the DNA of cancerous tissue leading to cellular death. To spare normal tissues (such as skin or organs which radiation must pass through to treat the tumo...
154. ...se of a cancer to radiation is described by its radiosensitivity. Highly radiosensitive cancer cells are rapidly killed by modest doses of radiation. These include leukemias, most lymphomas, and germ **cell** tumors. The majority of epithelial cancers are only moderately radiosensitive, and require a significantly higher dose of radiation (60–70 Gy) to achieve a radical cure. Some types of cancer are nota...
155. ...n (60–70 Gy) to achieve a radical cure. Some types of cancer are notably radioresistant, that is, much higher doses are required to produce a radical cure than may be safe in clinical practice. Renal **cell** cancer and melanoma are generally considered to be radioresistant but radiation therapy is still a palliative option for many patients with metastatic melanoma. Combining radiation therapy with immun...
156. ...ioresponsive tumors are routinely treated with curative doses of radiation therapy if they are at an early stage. For example, non-melanoma skin cancer, head and neck cancer, breast cancer, non-small **cell** lung cancer, cervical cancer, anal cancer, and prostate cancer. With the exception of oligometastatic disease, metastatic cancers are incurable with radiation therapy because it is not possible to tr...
157. ...breaks are much more difficult to repair, and can lead to dramatic chromosomal abnormalities and genetic deletions. Targeting double-stranded breaks increases the probability that cells will undergo **cell** death. Cancer cells are generally less differentiated and more stem cell-like; they reproduce more than most healthy differentiated cells, and have a diminished ability to repair sub-lethal damage. S...
158. ...osomal abnormalities and genetic deletions. Targeting double-stranded breaks increases the probability that cells will undergo cell death. Cancer cells are generally less differentiated and more stem **cell**-like; they reproduce more than most healthy differentiated cells, and have a diminished ability to repair sub-lethal damage. Single-strand DNA damage is then passed on through cell division; damage t...
159. ...ated and more stem cell-like; they reproduce more than most healthy differentiated cells, and have a diminished ability to repair sub-lethal damage. Single-strand DNA damage is then passed on through **cell** division; damage to the cancer cells' DNA accumulates, causing them to die or reproduce more slowly. One of the major limitations of photon radiation therapy is that the cells of solid tumors become...
160. ...ming hypoxia including the use of high pressure oxygen tanks, hyperthermia therapy (heat therapy which dilates blood vessels to the tumor site), blood substitutes that carry increased oxygen, hypoxic **cell** radiosensitizer drugs such as misonidazole and metronidazole, and hypoxic cytotoxins (tissue poisons), such as tirapazamine. Newer research approaches are currently being studied, including preclinic...
161. ...e of an oxygen diffusion-enhancing compound such as trans sodium crocetinate as a radiosensitizer. Charged particles such as protons and boron, carbon, and neon ions can cause direct damage to cancer **cell** DNA through high-LET (linear energy transfer) and have an antitumor effect independent of tumor oxygen supply because these particles act mostly via direct energy transfer usually causing double-stra...
162. ...normal cells time to recover, while tumor cells are generally less efficient in repair between fractions. Fractionation also allows tumor cells that were in a relatively radio-resistant phase of the **cell** cycle during one treatment to cycle into a sensitive phase of the cycle before the next fraction is given. Similarly, tumor cells that were chronically or acutely hypoxic (and therefore more radiores...
163. ...the cycle before the next fraction is given. Similarly, tumor cells that were chronically or acutely hypoxic (and therefore more radioresistant) may reoxygenate between fractions, improving the tumor **cell** kill. Fractionation regimens are individualised between different radiation therapy centers and even between individual doctors. In North America, Australia, and Europe, the typical fractionation sch...
164. ...week. In some cancer types, prolongation of the fraction schedule over too long can allow for the tumor to begin repopulating, and for these tumor types, including head-and-neck and cervical squamous **cell** cancers, radiation treatment is preferably completed within a certain amount of time. For children, a typical fraction size may be 1.5 to 1.8 Gy per day, as smaller fraction sizes are associated with...
165. ...ments are intended to destroy clonogenic cells by a process of ablation, i.e., the delivery of a dose intended to destroy clonogenic cells directly, rather than to interrupt the process of clonogenic **cell** division repeatedly (apoptosis), as in routine radiotherapy. Different cancer types have different radiation sensitivity. While predicting the sensitivity based on genomic or proteomic analyses of bi...
166. ...silver ion is bioactive and in sufficient concentration readily kills bacteria "in vitro". Silver ions interfere with enzymes in the bacteria that transport nutrients, form structures, and synthesise **cell** walls; these ions also bond with the bacteria's genetic material. Silver and silver nanoparticles are used as an antimicrobial in a variety of industrial, healthcare, and domestic application: for ex...
167. ...mage. Almost all of today's electronic technology involves the use of semiconductors, with the most important aspect being the integrated circuit (IC), which are found in desktops, laptops, scanners, **cell**-phones, and other electronic devices. Semiconductors for ICs are mass-produced. To create an ideal semiconducting material, chemical purity is paramount. Any small imperfection can have a drastic eff...
168. ...d a guide to the construction of more capable and reliable devices. Alexander Graham Bell used the light-sensitive property of selenium to transmit sound over a beam of light in 1880. A working solar **cell**, of low efficiency, was constructed by Charles Fritts in 1883, using a metal plate coated with selenium and a thin layer of gold; the device became commercially useful in photographic light meters in...
169. ...erance columns, "T" represents the temperature of the hot junction, in degrees Celsius. For example, a thermocouple with a tolerance of ±0.0025×"T" would have a tolerance of ±2.5 °C at 1000 °C.  Each **cell** in the Color Code columns depicts the end of a thermocouple cable, showing the jacket color and the color of the individual leads. The background color represents the color of the connector body. The...
170. ...m) excimer laser with a tunable visible or near IR laser in hydrogen or krypton provides resonantly enhanced tunable V‑UV covering from 100 nm to 200 nm. Practically, the lack of suitable gas / vapor **cell** window materials above the lithium fluoride cut-off wavelength limit the tuning range to longer than about 110 nm. Tunable V‑UV wavelengths down to 75 nm was achieved using window-free configurations...
171. ...s been used to successfully treat psoriasis, eczema, jaundice, vitiligo, atopic dermatitis, and localized scleroderma. In addition, UV radiation, in particular UVB radiation, has been shown to induce **cell** cycle arrest in keratinocytes, the most common type of skin cell. As such, sunlight therapy can be a candidate for treatment of conditions such as psoriasis and exfoliative cheilitis, conditions in w...
172. ...tiligo, atopic dermatitis, and localized scleroderma. In addition, UV radiation, in particular UVB radiation, has been shown to induce cell cycle arrest in keratinocytes, the most common type of skin **cell**. As such, sunlight therapy can be a candidate for treatment of conditions such as psoriasis and exfoliative cheilitis, conditions in which skin cells divide more rapidly than usual or necessary. In h...
173. ...ine dimers and double-strand DNA breakage. UVA is immunosuppressive for the entire body (accounting for a large part of the immunosuppressive effects of sunlight exposure), and is mutagenic for basal **cell** keratinocytes in skin. UVB photons can cause direct DNA damage. UVB radiation excites DNA molecules in skin cells, causing aberrant covalent bonds to form between adjacent pyrimidine bases, producing...
174. ...in DNA are removed by the process known as nucleotide excision repair that employs about 30 different proteins. Those pyrimidine dimers that escape this repair process can induce a form of programmed **cell** death (apoptosis) or can cause DNA replication errors leading to mutation. As a defense against UV radiation, the amount of the brown pigment melanin in the skin increases when exposed to moderate (d...
175. ...bond together into thymine dimers, a disruption in the strand that reproductive enzymes cannot copy. This leads to frameshifting during genetic replication and protein synthesis, usually killing the **cell**. Before formation of the UV-blocking ozone layer, when early prokaryotes approached the surface of the ocean, they almost invariably died out. The few that survived had developed enzymes that monitor...
176. ...g it had not been developed at this time. Volta distinguished electromotive force (emf) from "tension" (potential difference): the observed potential difference at the terminals of an electrochemical **cell** when it was open circuit must exactly balance the emf of the cell so that no current flowed. Volt The volt (symbol: V) is the unit of electric potential, electric potential difference (voltage), and...
177. ...tromotive force (emf) from "tension" (potential difference): the observed potential difference at the terminals of an electrochemical cell when it was open circuit must exactly balance the emf of the **cell** so that no current flowed. Volt The volt (symbol: V) is the unit of electric potential, electric potential difference (voltage), and electromotive force in the International System of Units (SI). One...
178. ...by Ohm's law. Ohm's Law is analogous to the Hagen–Poiseuille equation, as both are linear models relating flux and potential in their respective systems. The voltage produced by each electrochemical **cell** in a battery is determined by the chemistry of that cell (see ). Cells can be combined in series for multiples of that voltage, or additional circuitry added to adjust the voltage to a different leve...
179. ...ille equation, as both are linear models relating flux and potential in their respective systems. The voltage produced by each electrochemical cell in a battery is determined by the chemistry of that **cell** (see ). Cells can be combined in series for multiples of that voltage, or additional circuitry added to adjust the voltage to a different level. Mechanical generators can usually be constructed to an...
180. ...e being the customary system of units in science. They chose such a ratio because the cgs unit of voltage is inconveniently small and one volt in this definition is approximately the emf of a Daniell **cell**, the standard source of voltage in the telegraph systems of the day. At that time, the volt was defined as the potential difference [i.e., what is nowadays called the "voltage (difference)"] across a...
181. ...what is nowadays called the "voltage (difference)"] across a conductor when a current of one ampere dissipates one watt of power. The "international volt" was defined in 1893 as of the emf of a Clark **cell**. This definition was abandoned in 1908 in favor of a definition based on the international ohm and international ampere until the entire set of "reproducible units" was abandoned in 1948. A 2019 revi...
182. ...nstruments capable of measuring to accuracies of a few parts per million. Part of the problem of making an accurate voltmeter is that of calibration to check its accuracy. In laboratories, the Weston **cell** is used as a standard voltage for precision work. Precision voltage references are available based on electronic circuits. In circuit diagrams, a voltmeter is represented by the letter "V" in a circl...
183. ...ltage ranges (e.g. less than 20 V). To ensure that a DVM's accuracy is within the manufacturer's specified tolerances, it must be periodically calibrated against a voltage standard such as the Weston **cell**. The first digital voltmeter was invented and produced by Andrew Kay of Non-Linear Systems (and later founder of Kaypro) in 1954. Simple AC voltmeters use a rectifier connected to a DC measurement ci...
184. ...eported that MPS increased the height of the magnetosphere by a factor of 2.6, which is important since it increases the effective sail blocking area. In 2014 Ashida and others documented Particle In **Cell** (PIC) simulation results for a kinematic model for cases where formula_397 where MHD is not applicable. Equation (12) of their study included the additional force of the injected plasma jet formula_3...
185. ...ive an otherwise non-spontaneous chemical reaction. Electrolysis is commercially important as a stage in the separation of elements from naturally occurring sources such as ores using an electrolytic **cell**. The voltage that is needed for electrolysis to occur is called the decomposition potential. The word "lysis" means to separate or break, so in terms, electrolysis would mean "breakdown via electrici...
186. ...athode in contact with the electrolyte. Decomposition potential or decomposition voltage refers to the minimum voltage (difference in electrode potential) between anode and cathode of an electrolytic **cell** that is needed for electrolysis to occur. The voltage at which electrolysis is thermodynamically preferred is the difference of the electrode potentials as calculated using the Nernst equation. Apply...
187. ...reactions to generate an electrical potential that provides useful power. When a secondary battery is charged, its redox reaction is run in reverse and the system can be considered as an electrolytic **cell**. The chloralkali process is a large scale application of electrolysis. This technology supplies most of the chlorine and sodium hydroxide required by many industries. The cathode is a mixed metal oxi...
188. ...ination. One manifestation of this technology is the Simons process, which can be described as: In the course of a typical synthesis, this reaction occurs once for each C–H bond in the precursor. The **cell** potential is maintained near 5–6 V. The anode, the electrocatalyst, is nickel-plated. Acrylonitrile is converted to adiponitrile on an industrial scale via electrocatalysis. Electroplating, where a t...
189. ...ol for removing material by anodic oxidation from a workpiece. ECM is often used as a technique for deburring or for etching metal surfaces like tools or knives with a permanent mark or logo. Using a **cell** containing inert platinum electrodes, electrolysis of aqueous solutions of some salts leads to the reduction of the cations (such as metal deposition with, for example, zinc salts) and oxidation of t...
190. ...a higher potential is required for the reduction and oxidation of water than predicted, and these are termed overpotentials. Experimentally it is known that overpotentials depend on the design of the **cell** and the nature of the electrodes. For the electrolysis of a neutral (pH 7) sodium chloride solution, the reduction of sodium ion is thermodynamically very difficult and water is reduced evolving hydr...
191. ...line electrolyte in the form of slurry and the carbon contained source co-assist in the electrolysis process as following theoretical overall reactions: or Thus, this CAWE approach is that the actual **cell** overpotential can be significantly reduced to below 1.0 V as compared to 1.5 V for conventional water electrolysis. A specialized application of electrolysis involves the growth of conductive crystal...
192. ...electrolysis of seawater, alkaline electrolysis, proton-exchange membrane electrolysis, and solid oxide electrolysis. Direct electrolysis of seawater follows known processes, forming an electrolysis **cell** in which the seawater acts as the electrolyte to allow for the reaction at the anode, and the reaction at the cathode, . The inclusion of magnesium and calcium ions in the seawater makes the producti...
193. ...the anode, and the reaction at the cathode, . The inclusion of magnesium and calcium ions in the seawater makes the production of alkali hydroxides possible that could form scales in the electrolyser **cell**, cutting down on lifespan and increasing the need for maintenance. The alkaline electrolysers operate with the following reactions at the anode, and cathode, , and use high base solutions as electrol...
194. ...usly to examine the electrolysers in a way that minimizes the effects of bias on the performance conclusions. Electrode potential In electrochemistry, electrode potential is the voltage of a galvanic **cell** built from a standard reference electrode and another electrode to be characterized. By convention, the reference electrode is the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE). It is defined to have a potential...
195. ...er of charged species across the interface, specific adsorption of ions at the interface, and specific adsorption/orientation of polar molecules, including those of the solvent. In an electrochemical **cell**, the cathode and the anode have certain electrode potentials independently and the difference between them is the cell potential: The electrode potential may be either that at equilibrium at the work...
196. ...tation of polar molecules, including those of the solvent. In an electrochemical cell, the cathode and the anode have certain electrode potentials independently and the difference between them is the **cell** potential: The electrode potential may be either that at equilibrium at the working electrode ("reversible potential"), or a potential with a non-zero net reaction on the working electrode but zero n...
197. ...referred to as "Gibbs–Stockholm electrode potential". In both conventions, the standard hydrogen electrode is defined to have a potential of 0 V. Both conventions also agree on the sign of for a half-**cell** reaction when it is written as a reduction. The main difference between the two conventions is that upon reversing the direction of a half-cell reaction "as written", according to the convention (1)...
198. .... Both conventions also agree on the sign of for a half-cell reaction when it is written as a reduction. The main difference between the two conventions is that upon reversing the direction of a half-**cell** reaction "as written", according to the convention (1) the sign of also switches, whereas in the convention (2) it does not. The logic behind switching the sign of is to maintain the correct sign rel...
199. ...ould the sign of . Proponents of the convention (2) argue that all reported electrode potentials should be consistent with the electrostatic sign of the relative potential difference.  Potential of a **cell** assembled of two electrodes can be determined from the two individual electrode potentials using or, equivalently, This follows from the IUPAC definition of the electric potential difference of a gal...
200. ...bled of two electrodes can be determined from the two individual electrode potentials using or, equivalently, This follows from the IUPAC definition of the electric potential difference of a galvanic **cell**, according to which the electric potential difference of a cell is the difference of the potentials of the electrodes on the right and the left of the galvanic cell. When is positive, then positive e...
201. ...electrode potentials using or, equivalently, This follows from the IUPAC definition of the electric potential difference of a galvanic cell, according to which the electric potential difference of a **cell** is the difference of the potentials of the electrodes on the right and the left of the galvanic cell. When is positive, then positive electrical charge flows through the cell from the left electrode...
202. ...potential difference of a galvanic cell, according to which the electric potential difference of a cell is the difference of the potentials of the electrodes on the right and the left of the galvanic **cell**. When is positive, then positive electrical charge flows through the cell from the left electrode (anode) to the right electrode (cathode). Half-reaction In chemistry, a half reaction (or half-cell r...
203. ...otential difference of a cell is the difference of the potentials of the electrodes on the right and the left of the galvanic cell. When is positive, then positive electrical charge flows through the **cell** from the left electrode (anode) to the right electrode (cathode). Half-reaction In chemistry, a half reaction (or half-cell reaction) is either the oxidation or reduction reaction component of a redo...
204. ...c cell. When is positive, then positive electrical charge flows through the cell from the left electrode (anode) to the right electrode (cathode). Half-reaction In chemistry, a half reaction (or half-**cell** reaction) is either the oxidation or reduction reaction component of a redox reaction. A half reaction is obtained by considering the change in oxidation states of individual substances involved in t...
205. ...ained by considering the change in oxidation states of individual substances involved in the redox reaction. Often, the concept of half reactions is used to describe what occurs in an electrochemical **cell**, such as a Galvanic cell battery. Half reactions can be written to describe both the metal undergoing oxidation (known as the anode) and the metal undergoing reduction (known as the cathode). Half re...
206. ...change in oxidation states of individual substances involved in the redox reaction. Often, the concept of half reactions is used to describe what occurs in an electrochemical cell, such as a Galvanic **cell** battery. Half reactions can be written to describe both the metal undergoing oxidation (known as the anode) and the metal undergoing reduction (known as the cathode). Half reactions are often used as...
207. ...onditions, after balancing the atoms and oxidation numbers, first treat it as an acidic solution and then add ions to balance the ions in the half reactions (which would give ). Consider the Galvanic **cell** shown in the adjacent image: it is constructed with a piece of zinc (Zn) submerged in a solution of zinc sulfate () and a piece of copper (Cu) submerged in a solution of copper(II) sulfate (). The ov...
208. ...rrents do. The nervous system is insensitive to currents with frequencies over 10–20 kHz. It is thought that the reason for this is that a certain minimum number of ions must be driven across a nerve **cell**'s membrane by the imposed voltage to trigger the nerve cell to depolarize and transmit an impulse. At radio frequencies, there is insufficient time during a half-cycle for enough ions to cross the me...
209. ...h frequencies over 10–20 kHz. It is thought that the reason for this is that a certain minimum number of ions must be driven across a nerve cell's membrane by the imposed voltage to trigger the nerve **cell** to depolarize and transmit an impulse. At radio frequencies, there is insufficient time during a half-cycle for enough ions to cross the membrane before the alternating voltage reverses. The danger i...
210. ...y tolerances. Many uses and implementations of auxiliary power are experimented with to increase its efficiency. One such experimentation was to find a better way to operate a diesel engine with fuel **cell** based auxiliary power units.  The method of which is to separate hydrogen-rich gas from the diesel fuel to generate electricity separately in an auxiliary power unit.  With this process, an effective...
211. ...issions and auxiliary power demand were recorded. Then by using the calculated auxiliary power demand, a source was developed to support the demand for the auxiliary systems in the form of a PEM fuel **cell**.  The end product of the PEM fuel cell was able to support the auxiliary systems of the truck using a maximum of 5 kW of power. This input was able to sustain the cooling chamber, cabin air-condition...
212. ...recorded. Then by using the calculated auxiliary power demand, a source was developed to support the demand for the auxiliary systems in the form of a PEM fuel cell.  The end product of the PEM fuel **cell** was able to support the auxiliary systems of the truck using a maximum of 5 kW of power. This input was able to sustain the cooling chamber, cabin air-conditioning, radio unit, etc. The introduction...
213. ...support the auxiliary systems of the truck using a maximum of 5 kW of power. This input was able to sustain the cooling chamber, cabin air-conditioning, radio unit, etc. The introduction of this fuel **cell** also contributed to a 9% reduction in diesel fuel consumption and 9.6% reduction in emissions. The United States Environmental Protection Agency has set out rules and guidelines for how auxiliary and...
214. ...ic properties concerns storage and dissipation of electric and magnetic energy in materials. Dielectrics are important for explaining various phenomena in electronics, optics, solid-state physics and **cell** biophysics. Although the term "insulator" implies low electrical conduction, "dielectric" typically means materials with a high polarisability. The latter is expressed by a number called the relative...
215. ...oduction of energy-rich compounds in cells (the proton pump in mitochondria) and, at the plasma membrane, the establishment of the resting potential, energetically unfavourable transport of ions, and **cell**-to-cell communication (the Na+/K+-ATPase). All cells in animal body tissues are electrically polarised – in other words, they maintain a voltage difference across the cell's plasma membrane, known as...
216. ...of energy-rich compounds in cells (the proton pump in mitochondria) and, at the plasma membrane, the establishment of the resting potential, energetically unfavourable transport of ions, and cell-to-**cell** communication (the Na+/K+-ATPase). All cells in animal body tissues are electrically polarised – in other words, they maintain a voltage difference across the cell's plasma membrane, known as the mem...
217. ...able transport of ions, and cell-to-cell communication (the Na+/K+-ATPase). All cells in animal body tissues are electrically polarised – in other words, they maintain a voltage difference across the **cell**'s plasma membrane, known as the membrane potential. This electrical polarisation results from a complex interplay between ion transporters and ion channels. In neurons, the types of ion channels in t...
218. ...is electrical polarisation results from a complex interplay between ion transporters and ion channels. In neurons, the types of ion channels in the membrane usually vary across different parts of the **cell**, giving the dendrites, axon, and cell body different electrical properties. As a result, some parts of the membrane of a neuron may be excitable (capable of generating action potentials), whereas oth...
219. ...m a complex interplay between ion transporters and ion channels. In neurons, the types of ion channels in the membrane usually vary across different parts of the cell, giving the dendrites, axon, and **cell** body different electrical properties. As a result, some parts of the membrane of a neuron may be excitable (capable of generating action potentials), whereas others are not. In physics, dielectric di...
220. ...testing of a physical prototype is most often carried out indoors, in a specialized EMC test chamber. Types of the chamber include anechoic, reverberation and the gigahertz transverse electromagnetic **cell** (GTEM cell). Sometimes computational electromagnetics simulations are used to test virtual models. Like all compliance testing, it is important that the test equipment, including the test chamber or...
221. ...a physical prototype is most often carried out indoors, in a specialized EMC test chamber. Types of the chamber include anechoic, reverberation and the gigahertz transverse electromagnetic cell (GTEM **cell**). Sometimes computational electromagnetics simulations are used to test virtual models. Like all compliance testing, it is important that the test equipment, including the test chamber or site and an...
222. ...factors affect the vulnerability of electronics as well, so no hard cutoff length determines whether some piece of equipment will survive. However, small electronic devices, such as wristwatches and **cell** phones, would most likely withstand an EMP. Though electric potential difference can accumulate in electrical conductors after an EMP, it will generally not flow out into human or animal bodies, and...
223. ...r produce an electric shock hazard if large enough. The use of the term ground (or earth) is so common in electrical and electronics applications that circuits in portable electronic devices, such as **cell** phones and media players, as well as circuits in vehicles, may be spoken of as having a "ground" or chassis ground connection without any actual connection to the Earth, despite "common" being a more...
224. ...f ground can introduce these currents into sensitive parts of the human body. As a result, medical power supplies are designed to have low capacitance. Class II appliances and power supplies (such as **cell** phone chargers) do not provide any ground connection, and are designed to isolate the output from input. Safety is ensured by double-insulation, so that two failures of insulation are required to cau...
225. ...y consisting of tiny helices. This causes circular birefringence, and is engineered so that there is a 90 degree rotation of the linear polarization state. However, when a voltage is applied across a **cell**, the molecules straighten out, lessening or totally losing the circular birefringence. On the viewing side of the display is another linear polarizing sheet, usually oriented at 90 degrees from the o...
226. ...ight propagation means radio waves that travel in a straight line from the transmitting antenna to the receiving antenna. Line of sight transmission is used to medium-range radio transmission such as **cell** phones, cordless phones, walkie-talkies, wireless networks, FM radio and television broadcasting and radar, and satellite communication, such as satellite television. Line-of-sight transmission on th...
227. ...nnel also. The SMS or GPRS data packets sent from UPSs trigger software to shut down the PCs to reduce the load. There are three main types of UPS batteries: Valve Regulated Lead Acid (VRLA), Flooded **Cell** or VLA batteries, and lithium-ion batteries. The run-time for a battery-operated UPS depends on the type and size of batteries and rate of discharge, and the efficiency of the inverter. The total cap...
228. ...Multi-kilowatt commercial UPS systems with large and easily accessible battery banks are capable of isolating and testing individual cells within a "battery string", which consists of either combined-**cell** battery units (such as 12 V lead acid batteries) or individual chemical cells wired in series. Isolating a single cell and installing a jumper in place of it allows the one battery to be discharge-te...
229. ...ng individual cells within a "battery string", which consists of either combined-cell battery units (such as 12 V lead acid batteries) or individual chemical cells wired in series. Isolating a single **cell** and installing a jumper in place of it allows the one battery to be discharge-tested, while the rest of the battery string remains charged and available to provide protection. It is also possible to...
230. ...and available to provide protection. It is also possible to measure the electrical characteristics of individual cells in a battery string, using intermediate sensor wires that are installed at every **cell**-to-cell junction, and monitored both individually and collectively. Battery strings may also be wired as series-parallel, for example, two sets of 20 cells. In such a situation it is also necessary t...
231. ...lable to provide protection. It is also possible to measure the electrical characteristics of individual cells in a battery string, using intermediate sensor wires that are installed at every cell-to-**cell** junction, and monitored both individually and collectively. Battery strings may also be wired as series-parallel, for example, two sets of 20 cells. In such a situation it is also necessary to monito...
232. ...with high resistance, or shorted cells. For example, stronger strings can discharge through weaker strings until voltage imbalances are equalized, and this must be factored into the individual inter-**cell** measurements within each string. Battery strings wired in series-parallel can develop unusual failure modes due to interactions between the multiple parallel strings. Defective batteries in one strin...
233. ...d string and reduces current flow. The new cells with more capacity now charge very slowly, so slowly that the chemicals may begin to crystallize before reaching the fully charged state, reducing new **cell** capacity over several charge/discharge cycles until their capacity more closely matches the old cells in the series string. For such reasons, some industrial UPS management systems recommend periodic...
234. ...found in most fish, including sharks. It is a tactile sensory system which allows the organism to detect water speed and pressure changes near by. The main component of the system is the neuromast, a **cell** similar to hair cells present in the vertebrate ear that interact with the surrounding aquatic environment. This helps sharks distinguish between the currents around them, obstacles off on their peri...
235. ...force for ferroelectricity is more complex with interactions between the lead and oxygen ions also playing an important role. In an order-disorder ferroelectric, there is a dipole moment in each unit **cell**, but at high temperatures they are pointing in random directions. Upon lowering the temperature and going through the phase transition, the dipoles order, all pointing in the same direction within a...
236. ...e has been featured in many forms of merchandise, including various action figures and trading cards: Direct current Direct current (DC) is one-directional flow of electric charge. An electrochemical **cell** is a prime example of DC power. Direct current may flow through a conductor such as a wire, but can also flow through semiconductors, insulators, or even through a vacuum as in electron or ion beams....
237. ...came the modern coulomb. Georg Ohm Georg Simon Ohm (; ; 16 March 1789 – 6 July 1854) was a German physicist and mathematician. As a school teacher, Ohm began his research with the new electrochemical **cell**, invented by Italian scientist Alessandro Volta. Using equipment of his own creation, Ohm found that there is a direct proportionality between the potential difference (voltage) applied across a cond...
238. ...ors and provided a uniquely defining property of the superconductor state. The ability for the expulsion effect is determined by the nature of equilibrium formed by the neutralization within the unit **cell** of a superconductor. A superconductor with little or no magnetic field within it is said to be in the Meissner state. The Meissner state breaks down when the applied magnetic field is too strong. Sup...
239. ...igh energy radiation would make functional movement essentially impossible. This has led scientists to begin researching the idea of partial body protection: a strategy inspired by hematopoietic stem **cell** transplantation (HSCT). The idea is to use enough shielding material to sufficiently protect the high concentration of bone marrow in the pelvic region, which contains enough regenerative stem cells...
240. ...des) or through excitation by impact of high-energy electrons accelerated by a strong electric field (as with the phosphors in electroluminescent displays). It has been recently shown that as a solar **cell** improves its light-to-electricity efficiency (improved open-circuit voltage), it will also improve its electricity-to-light (EL) efficiency. Electroluminescent technologies have low power consumption...
241. ...liquids is also controlled by the movement of ions, but here we are talking about molten salts rather than solvated ions. In biological membranes, currents are carried by ionic salts. Small holes in **cell** membranes, called ion channels, are selective to specific ions and determine the membrane resistance. The concentration of ions in a liquid (e.g., in an aqueous solution) depends on the degree of dis...
242. ...a potential difference (voltage) between the terminals is accomplished by chemical reactions at the electrodes that convert chemical potential energy into electromagnetic potential energy. A voltaic **cell** can be thought of as having a "charge pump" of atomic dimensions at each electrode, that is: In an electrical generator, a time-varying magnetic field inside the generator creates an electric field v...
243. ...called the "electromotive force" in English. Around 1830, Michael Faraday established that chemical reactions at each of two electrode–electrolyte interfaces provide the "seat of emf" for the voltaic **cell**. That is, these reactions drive the current and are not an endless source of energy as the earlier obsolete theory thought. In the open-circuit case, charge separation continues until the electrical...
244. ...absolute temperature. The combination formula_54 is an example of a conjugate pair of variables. At constant pressure the above relationship produces a Maxwell relation that links the change in open **cell** voltage with temperature "formula_53" (a measurable quantity) to the change in entropy "formula_50" when charge is passed isothermally and isobarically. The latter is closely related to the reaction...
245. ...is closely related to the reaction entropy of the electrochemical reaction that lends the battery its power. This Maxwell relation is: If a mole of ions goes into solution (for example, in a Daniell **cell**, as discussed below) the charge through the external circuit is: where formula_59 is the number of electrons/ion, and formula_60 is the Faraday constant and the minus sign indicates discharge of the...
246. ..., as discussed below) the charge through the external circuit is: where formula_59 is the number of electrons/ion, and formula_60 is the Faraday constant and the minus sign indicates discharge of the **cell**. Assuming constant pressure and volume, the thermodynamic properties of the cell are related strictly to the behavior of its emf by: where formula_62 is the enthalpy of reaction. The quantities on th...
247. ...9 is the number of electrons/ion, and formula_60 is the Faraday constant and the minus sign indicates discharge of the cell. Assuming constant pressure and volume, the thermodynamic properties of the **cell** are related strictly to the behavior of its emf by: where formula_62 is the enthalpy of reaction. The quantities on the right are all directly measurable. Assuming constant temperature and pressure:...
248. ...n circuit, the electric charge that has been separated by the mechanism generating the emf creates an electric field opposing the separation mechanism. For example, the chemical reaction in a voltaic **cell** stops when the opposing electric field at each electrode is strong enough to arrest the reactions. A larger opposing field can reverse the reactions in what are called "reversible" cells. The electri...
249. ...ion can only occur if electrons move through an external wire between the electrodes. The electrical energy given off is the free energy lost by the chemical reaction system. As an example, a Daniell **cell** consists of a zinc anode (an electron collector) that is oxidized as it dissolves into a zinc sulfate solution. The dissolving zinc leaving behind its electrons in the electrode according to the oxid...
250. ...he dissolving zinc leaving behind its electrons in the electrode according to the oxidation reaction ("s" = solid electrode; "aq" = aqueous solution): The zinc sulfate is the electrolyte in that half **cell**. It is a solution which contains zinc cations formula_75, and sulfate anions formula_76 with charges that balance to zero. In the other half cell, the copper cations in a copper sulfate electrolyte m...
251. ...on): The zinc sulfate is the electrolyte in that half cell. It is a solution which contains zinc cations formula_75, and sulfate anions formula_76 with charges that balance to zero. In the other half **cell**, the copper cations in a copper sulfate electrolyte move to the copper cathode to which they attach themselves as they adopt electrons from the copper electrode by the reduction reaction: which leave...
252. ...ht bulb in figure), while ions pass through the salt bridge to maintain charge balance until the anode and cathode reach electrical equilibrium of zero volts as chemical equilibrium is reached in the **cell**. In the process the zinc anode is dissolved while the copper electrode is plated with copper. The salt bridge has to close the electrical circuit while preventing the copper ions from moving to the z...
253. ...posite direction. If the light bulb is removed (open circuit) the emf between the electrodes is opposed by the electric field due to the charge separation, and the reactions stop. For this particular **cell** chemistry, at 298 K (room temperature), the emf formula_1 = 1.0934 V, with a temperature coefficient of formula_79 = −4.53×10 V/K. Volta developed the voltaic cell about 1792, and presented his work...
254. ...reactions stop. For this particular cell chemistry, at 298 K (room temperature), the emf formula_1 = 1.0934 V, with a temperature coefficient of formula_79 = −4.53×10 V/K. Volta developed the voltaic **cell** about 1792, and presented his work March 20, 1800. Volta correctly identified the role of dissimilar electrodes in producing the voltage, but incorrectly dismissed any role for the electrolyte. Volta...
255. ...nd secondary (rechargeable) cells is usually of the order of a few volts. The figures quoted below are nominal, because emf varies according to the size of the load and the state of exhaustion of the **cell**. Other chemical sources include fuel cells. Electromagnetic induction is the production of a circulating electric field by a time-dependent magnetic field. A time-dependent magnetic field can be prod...
256. ...o all the contact potentials due to wiring and so forth around the entire circuit. The sum of "all" the contact potentials is zero, and so they may be ignored in Kirchhoff's law. Operation of a solar **cell** can be understood from its equivalent circuit. Photons with energy greater than the bandgap of the semiconductor create mobile electron–hole pairs. Charge separation occurs because of a pre-existing...
257. ...nternal current losses formula_80 limit the total current formula_27 available to the external circuit. The light-induced charge separation eventually creates a forward current formula_82 through the **cell**'s internal resistance formula_83 in the direction opposite the light-induced current formula_84. In addition, the induced voltage tends to forward bias the junction, which at high enough voltages wil...
258. ...s zeroed, and so the voltage across the diode is smallest. Thus, short-circuiting results in the smallest formula_80 losses and consequently the maximum output current, which for a high-quality solar **cell** is approximately equal to the light-induced current formula_87. Approximately this same current is obtained for forward voltages up to the point where the diode conduction becomes significant. The cu...
259. ...t delivered by the illuminated diode to the external circuit can be simplified (based on certain assumptions) to: formula_89 is the reverse saturation current. Two parameters that depend on the solar **cell** construction and to some degree upon the voltage itself are the ideality factor "m" and the thermal voltage formula_90, which is about 26 millivolts at room temperature. Solving the illuminated diode...
260. ...6 millivolts at room temperature. Solving the illuminated diode's above simplified current–voltage relationship for output voltage yields: which is plotted against formula_92 in the figure. The solar **cell**'s "photo emf" formula_93 has the same value as the open-circuit voltage formula_94, which is determined by zeroing the output current formula_27: It has a logarithmic dependence on the light-induced...
261. ...short-circuit value of zero volts and the open-circuit voltage formula_94. When that resistance is small enough such that formula_99 (the near-vertical part of the two illustrated curves), the solar **cell** acts more like a "current generator" rather than a voltage generator, since the current drawn is nearly fixed over a range of output voltages. This contrasts with batteries, which act more like volta...
262. ...onimbus cloud that can reach heights of over . As the rising air reaches its dew point temperature, water vapor condenses into water droplets or ice, reducing pressure locally within the thunderstorm **cell**. Any precipitation falls the long distance through the clouds towards the Earth's surface. As the droplets fall, they collide with other droplets and become larger. The falling droplets create a down...
263. ...nds, large hailstones, and flash flooding caused by heavy precipitation. Stronger thunderstorm cells are capable of producing tornadoes and waterspouts. There are three types of thunderstorms: single-**cell**, multi-cell, and supercell. Supercell thunderstorms are the strongest and most severe. Mesoscale convective systems formed by favorable vertical wind shear within the tropics and subtropics can be re...
264. ...ailstones, and flash flooding caused by heavy precipitation. Stronger thunderstorm cells are capable of producing tornadoes and waterspouts. There are three types of thunderstorms: single-cell, multi-**cell**, and supercell. Supercell thunderstorms are the strongest and most severe. Mesoscale convective systems formed by favorable vertical wind shear within the tropics and subtropics can be responsible fo...
265. ...and the subsequent reduction in lift for the aircraft. The stronger the outflow boundary is, the stronger the resultant vertical wind shear becomes. There are four main types of thunderstorms: single-**cell**, multi-cell, squall line (also called multi-cell line) and supercell. Which type forms depends on the instability and relative wind conditions at different layers of the atmosphere ("wind shear"). Si...
266. ...equent reduction in lift for the aircraft. The stronger the outflow boundary is, the stronger the resultant vertical wind shear becomes. There are four main types of thunderstorms: single-cell, multi-**cell**, squall line (also called multi-cell line) and supercell. Which type forms depends on the instability and relative wind conditions at different layers of the atmosphere ("wind shear"). Single-cell th...
267. ...raft. The stronger the outflow boundary is, the stronger the resultant vertical wind shear becomes. There are four main types of thunderstorms: single-cell, multi-cell, squall line (also called multi-**cell** line) and supercell. Which type forms depends on the instability and relative wind conditions at different layers of the atmosphere ("wind shear"). Single-cell thunderstorms form in environments of l...
268. ...ti-cell, squall line (also called multi-cell line) and supercell. Which type forms depends on the instability and relative wind conditions at different layers of the atmosphere ("wind shear"). Single-**cell** thunderstorms form in environments of low vertical wind shear and last only 20–30 minutes. Organized thunderstorms and thunderstorm clusters/lines can have longer life cycles as they form in environm...
269. ...understorms in many temperate locales. They also occur in the cool unstable air that often follows the passage of a cold front from the sea during winter. Within a cluster of thunderstorms, the term "**cell**" refers to each separate principal updraft. Thunderstorm cells occasionally form in isolation, as the occurrence of one thunderstorm can develop an outflow boundary that sets up new thunderstorm deve...
270. ...d of severe weather associated with them, it is known as a pulse severe storm. Pulse severe storms are poorly organized and occur randomly in time and space, making them difficult to forecast. Single-**cell** thunderstorms normally last 20–30 minutes. This is the most common type of thunderstorm development. "Mature thunderstorms" are found near the center of the cluster, while dissipating thunderstorms e...
271. ...ar the center of the cluster, while dissipating thunderstorms exist on their downwind side. "Multicell storms" form as clusters of storms but may then evolve into one or more squall lines. While each **cell** of the cluster may only last 20 minutes, the cluster itself may persist for hours at a time. They often arise from convective updrafts in or near mountain ranges and linear weather boundaries, such a...
272. ...often arise from convective updrafts in or near mountain ranges and linear weather boundaries, such as strong cold fronts or troughs of low pressure. These type of storms are stronger than the single-**cell** storm, yet much weaker than the supercell storm. Hazards with the multicell cluster include moderate-sized hail, flash flooding, and weak tornadoes. A squall line is an elongated line of severe thund...
273. ...or will soon turn severe. In Canada, a rainfall rate greater than in one hour, or in three hours, is also used to indicate severe thunderstorms. Severe thunderstorms can occur from any type of storm **cell**. However, multicell, supercell, and squall lines represent the most common forms of thunderstorms that produce severe weather. A mesoscale convective system (MCS) is a complex of thunderstorms that b...
274. ...When thunderstorms merge, which is most likely when numerous thunderstorms exist in proximity to each other, the motion of the stronger thunderstorm normally dictates the future motion of the merged **cell**. The stronger the mean wind, the less likely other processes will be involved in storm motion. On weather radar, storms are tracked by using a prominent feature and tracking it from scan to scan. A b...
275. ...the storm seems to remain stationary or propagate in a backward direction. Though the storm often appears stationary on radar, or even moving upwind, this is an illusion. The storm is really a multi-**cell** storm with new, more vigorous cells that form on the upwind side, replacing older cells that continue to drift downwind. When this happens, catastrophic flooding is possible. In Rapid City, South Dak...
276. ...C = 150 pF and R = 330 Ω which provides high fidelity results. While the theory is mostly there, very few companies measure the real ESD survival rate. Guidelines and requirements are given for test **cell** geometries, generator specifications, test levels, discharge rate and waveform, types and points of discharge on the "victim" product, and functional criteria for gauging product survivability. A cha...
277. ...nce does not support these claims". According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, studies of magnetic jewelry have not shown demonstrable effects on pain, nerve function, **cell** growth or blood flow. A 2008 systematic review of magnet therapy for all indications found insufficient evidence to determine whether magnet therapy is effective for pain relief, as did 2012 reviews...
278. ...ng the telegraph. The question was submitted to the arbitration of the famous engineer, Marc Isambard Brunel, on behalf of Cooke, and Professor Daniell, of King's College, the inventor of the Daniell **cell**, on the part of Wheatstone. They awarded to Cooke the credit of having introduced the telegraph as a useful undertaking which promised to be of national importance, and to Wheatstone that of having b...
279. ...aday force magnetometry the force on the sample can be measured by a scale (hanging the sample from a sensitive balance), or by detecting the displacement against a spring. Commonly a capacitive load **cell** or cantilever is used because of its sensitivity, size, and lack of mechanical parts. Faraday force magnetometry is approximately one order of magnitude less sensitive than a SQUID. The biggest drawb...
280. ...The photo detector can measure this change and therefore measure the magnitude of the magnetic field. In the most common type of caesium magnetometer, a very small AC magnetic field is applied to the **cell**. Since the difference in the energy levels of the electrons is determined by the external magnetic field, there is a frequency at which this small AC field makes the electrons change states. In this...
281. ...field makes the electrons change states. In this new state, the electrons once again can absorb a photon of light. This causes a signal on a photo detector that measures the light passing through the **cell**. The associated electronics use this fact to create a signal exactly at the frequency that corresponds to the external field. Another type of caesium magnetometer modulates the light applied to the c...
282. ...l. The associated electronics use this fact to create a signal exactly at the frequency that corresponds to the external field. Another type of caesium magnetometer modulates the light applied to the **cell**. This is referred to as a Bell-Bloom magnetometer, after the two scientists who first investigated the effect. If the light is turned on and off at the frequency corresponding to the Earth's field, t...
283. ...lometers based on graphene-based materials capable of microwave detection at the single-photon level. Photoresistor A photoresistor (also known as a light-dependent resistor, LDR, or photo-conductive **cell**) is a passive component that decreases in resistance as a result of increasing luminosity (light) on its sensitive surface, in other words, it exhibits photoconductivity. A photoresistor can be used...
284. ...m. Conversely, Wilson's disease causes an accumulation of copper in body tissues. Severe deficiency can be found by testing for low plasma or serum copper levels, low ceruloplasmin, and low red blood **cell** superoxide dismutase levels; these are not sensitive to marginal copper status. The "cytochrome c oxidase activity of leucocytes and platelets" has been stated as another factor in deficiency, but th...
285. ...atite, with high concentrations of OH, F and Cl ion, respectively, in the crystal. The formula of the admixture of the three most common endmembers is written as Ca(PO)(OH,F,Cl), and the crystal unit **cell** formulae of the individual minerals are written as Ca(PO)(OH), Ca(PO)F and Ca(PO)Cl. The mineral was named apatite by the German geologist Abraham Gottlob Werner in 1786, although the specific minera...
286. ...d at 85 °C, it retains a liquid state until cooled to 40 °C. Therefore, from the temperatures of 40 to 85 °C, agar can be either solid or liquid, depending on which state it was before. Hysteresis in **cell** biology often follows bistable systems where the same input state can lead to two different, stable outputs. Where bistability can lead to digital, switch-like outputs from the continuous inputs of c...
287. ...overall integrity of the system such that we have three designated checkpoints to account for this: G1/S, G2/M, and the spindle checkpoint. Irreversible hysteresis in this context ensures that once a **cell** commits to a specific phase (e.g., entering mitosis or DNA replication), it does not revert to a previous phase, even if conditions or regulatory signals change. Based on the irreversible hysteresis...
288. ...itosis or DNA replication), it does not revert to a previous phase, even if conditions or regulatory signals change. Based on the irreversible hysteresis curve, there does exit a [input] at which the **cell** jumps to the next bistable region, but there isn’t a [input] that allows the cell to revert to its previous bistable region. The cell has no way of reverting back down to its previous bistable region...
289. ...ions or regulatory signals change. Based on the irreversible hysteresis curve, there does exit a [input] at which the cell jumps to the next bistable region, but there isn’t a [input] that allows the **cell** to revert to its previous bistable region. The cell has no way of reverting back down to its previous bistable region even when [input] is 0, demonstrating irreversibility. Positive feedback is criti...
290. ...versible hysteresis curve, there does exit a [input] at which the cell jumps to the next bistable region, but there isn’t a [input] that allows the cell to revert to its previous bistable region. The **cell** has no way of reverting back down to its previous bistable region even when [input] is 0, demonstrating irreversibility. Positive feedback is critical for generating hysteresis in the cell cycle. For...
291. ...egion. The cell has no way of reverting back down to its previous bistable region even when [input] is 0, demonstrating irreversibility. Positive feedback is critical for generating hysteresis in the **cell** cycle. For example: In the G2/M transition, active CDK1 promotes the activation of more CDK1 molecules by inhibiting Wee1 (an inhibitor) and activating Cdc25 (a phosphatase that activates CDK1). Thes...
292. ...le: In the G2/M transition, active CDK1 promotes the activation of more CDK1 molecules by inhibiting Wee1 (an inhibitor) and activating Cdc25 (a phosphatase that activates CDK1). These loops lock the **cell** into its current state and amplifying the activation of CDK1. Positive feedback also serves to create a bistable system where CDK1 is either fully inactivated or fully activated. Hysteresis prevents...
293. ...o its current state and amplifying the activation of CDK1. Positive feedback also serves to create a bistable system where CDK1 is either fully inactivated or fully activated. Hysteresis prevents the **cell** from oscillating between these two states from small perturbations in signal (input). Reversible Hysteresis A biochemical system that is under the control of reversible hysteresis has both forward an...
294. ...s has both forward and reverse trajectories. The system generally requires a higher [input] to proceed forward into the next bistable state then to exit from that stage. For example, cells undergoing **cell** division exhibit reversible hysteresis in that it takes a higher concentration of cyclins to switch them from G2 phase into mitosis than to stay in mitosis once begun .  Additionally, because the [cy...
295. ...ysteresis in that it takes a higher concentration of cyclins to switch them from G2 phase into mitosis than to stay in mitosis once begun .  Additionally, because the [cyclin] required to reverse the **cell** back to the G2 phase is much lower than the [cycilin] to enter mitosis, this improved the bistability of mitosis because it is more resistance to weak or transient signals. Small perturbations the [i...
296. ...wer than the [cycilin] to enter mitosis, this improved the bistability of mitosis because it is more resistance to weak or transient signals. Small perturbations the [input] won’t be able to push the **cell** out of mitosis so easily. History and Memory In systems with bistability, the same input level can correspond to two distinct stable states (e.g., "low output" and "high output"). The actual state of...
297. ...e actual state of the system depends on its history — whether the input level was increasing (forward trajectory) or decreasing (backward trajectory). Thus, it is difficult to determine which state a **cell** is in if given only a bistability curve. The cell’s ability to "remember" its prior state ensures stability and prevents it from switching states unnecessarily due to minor fluctuations in input. Thi...
298. ...y — whether the input level was increasing (forward trajectory) or decreasing (backward trajectory). Thus, it is difficult to determine which state a cell is in if given only a bistability curve. The **cell**’s ability to "remember" its prior state ensures stability and prevents it from switching states unnecessarily due to minor fluctuations in input. This memory is often maintained through molecular fee...
299. ...cause following the absolute refractory period, the neuron is less excitable due to hyperpolarization caused by potassium efflux. This molecular inhibitory feedback creates a memory for the neuron or **cell**, so that the neuron doesn’t fire too soon. As time passes, the neuron or cell will slowly lose the memory of having fired and will begin to fire again. Thus, memory is time-dependent, which is import...
300. ...ue to hyperpolarization caused by potassium efflux. This molecular inhibitory feedback creates a memory for the neuron or cell, so that the neuron doesn’t fire too soon. As time passes, the neuron or **cell** will slowly lose the memory of having fired and will begin to fire again. Thus, memory is time-dependent, which is important in maintaining homeostasis and regulating many different biological proces...
301. ...red and will begin to fire again. Thus, memory is time-dependent, which is important in maintaining homeostasis and regulating many different biological processes. Biochemical Systems: Regulating the **Cell** Cycle in Xenopus Laevis Egg Extracts Cells advancing through the cell cycle must make an irreversible commitment to mitosis, ensuring they do not revert to interphase before successfully segregating...
302. ...h is important in maintaining homeostasis and regulating many different biological processes. Biochemical Systems: Regulating the Cell Cycle in Xenopus Laevis Egg Extracts Cells advancing through the **cell** cycle must make an irreversible commitment to mitosis, ensuring they do not revert to interphase before successfully segregating their chromosomes. A mathematical model of cell-cycle progression in c...
303. ...advancing through the cell cycle must make an irreversible commitment to mitosis, ensuring they do not revert to interphase before successfully segregating their chromosomes. A mathematical model of **cell**-cycle progression in cell-free egg extracts from frogs suggests that hysteresis in the molecular control system drives these irreversible transitions into and out of mitosis. Here, Cdc2 (Cyclin-depen...
304. ...l cycle must make an irreversible commitment to mitosis, ensuring they do not revert to interphase before successfully segregating their chromosomes. A mathematical model of cell-cycle progression in **cell**-free egg extracts from frogs suggests that hysteresis in the molecular control system drives these irreversible transitions into and out of mitosis. Here, Cdc2 (Cyclin-dependent kinase 1 or CDK1) is...
305. ...in the system. Concentrations between 24 and 32 nM cyclin B demonstrated bistability, where the system could exist in either interphase or mitosis, depending on its prior state (history). Though, the **cell** cycle isn’t completely irreversible, the difference in thresholds is enough for growth and survival of the cells. Hysteric thresholds in biological systems are not definite and can be recalibrated. F...
306. ...DNA or chromosomes inhibits Cdc25 phosphatase and maintains Wee1 kinase activity. This prevents the activation of Cyclin B-Cdc2, effectively raising the threshold for mitotic entry. As a result, the **cell** delays the transition to mitosis until replication is complete, ensuring genomic integrity. Other instances may be DNA damage and unattached chromosomes during the spindle assembly checkpoint. Bioche...
307. ...sis until replication is complete, ensuring genomic integrity. Other instances may be DNA damage and unattached chromosomes during the spindle assembly checkpoint. Biochemical Systems: Regulating the **Cell** Cycle in Yeast Biochemical systems can also show hysteresis-like output when slowly varying states that are not directly monitored are involved, as in the case of the cell cycle arrest in yeast expos...
308. ...cal Systems: Regulating the Cell Cycle in Yeast Biochemical systems can also show hysteresis-like output when slowly varying states that are not directly monitored are involved, as in the case of the **cell** cycle arrest in yeast exposed to mating pheromone. The proposed model is that α-factor, a yeast mating pheromone binds to its analog receptor on another yeast cell promoting transcription of Fus3 and...
309. ...are involved, as in the case of the cell cycle arrest in yeast exposed to mating pheromone. The proposed model is that α-factor, a yeast mating pheromone binds to its analog receptor on another yeast **cell** promoting transcription of Fus3 and promoting mating. Fus3 further promotes Far1 which inhibits Cln1/2, activators of the cell cycle. This is representative of a coherent feedforward loop that can mo...
310. ..., a yeast mating pheromone binds to its analog receptor on another yeast cell promoting transcription of Fus3 and promoting mating. Fus3 further promotes Far1 which inhibits Cln1/2, activators of the **cell** cycle. This is representative of a coherent feedforward loop that can modeled as a hysteresis curve. Far1 transcription is the primary mechanism responsible for the hysteresis observed in cell-cycle...
311. ...of the cell cycle. This is representative of a coherent feedforward loop that can modeled as a hysteresis curve. Far1 transcription is the primary mechanism responsible for the hysteresis observed in **cell**-cycle reentry. The history of pheromone exposure influences the accumulation of Far1, which, in turn, determines the delay in cell-cycle reentry. Previous pulse experiments demonstrated that after ex...
312. ...is the primary mechanism responsible for the hysteresis observed in cell-cycle reentry. The history of pheromone exposure influences the accumulation of Far1, which, in turn, determines the delay in **cell**-cycle reentry. Previous pulse experiments demonstrated that after exposure to high pheromone concentrations, cells enter a stabilized arrested state where reentry thresholds are elevated due to incre...
313. ...d state where reentry thresholds are elevated due to increased Far1-dependent inhibition of CDK activity. Even when pheromone levels drop to concentrations that would allow naive cells to reenter the **cell** cycle, pre-exposed cells take longer to resume proliferation. This delay reflects the history-dependent nature of hysteresis, where past exposure to high pheromone concentrations influences the curre...
314. ...ne signals. It allows cells to "remember" high pheromone exposure, and this helps yeast cells adapt and stability their responses to environmental conditions, avoiding fast premature reentry into the **cell** cycle, the moment that pheromone signal dies down. Additionally, the duration of cell cycle arrest depends not only on the final level of input Fus3, but also on the previously achieved Fus3 levels....
315. ...t cells adapt and stability their responses to environmental conditions, avoiding fast premature reentry into the cell cycle, the moment that pheromone signal dies down. Additionally, the duration of **cell** cycle arrest depends not only on the final level of input Fus3, but also on the previously achieved Fus3 levels. This effect is achieved due to the slower time scales involved in the transcription of...
316. ..., for instance, by using an inducible promoter. Biochemical systems can also show hysteresis-like output when slowly varying states that are not directly monitored are involved, as in the case of the **cell** cycle arrest in yeast exposed to mating pheromone. Here, the duration of cell cycle arrest depends not only on the final level of input Fus3, but also on the previously achieved Fus3 levels. This eff...
317. ...how hysteresis-like output when slowly varying states that are not directly monitored are involved, as in the case of the cell cycle arrest in yeast exposed to mating pheromone. Here, the duration of **cell** cycle arrest depends not only on the final level of input Fus3, but also on the previously achieved Fus3 levels. This effect is achieved due to the slower time scales involved in the transcription of...
318. ...e of the external form of the chromosomes to respond immediately to the internal stresses due to changes in their molecular spiral", as they lie in a somewhat rigid medium in the limited space of the **cell** nucleus. In developmental biology, cell type diversity is regulated by long range-acting signaling molecules called morphogens that pattern uniform pools of cells in a concentration- and time-depende...
319. ...s to respond immediately to the internal stresses due to changes in their molecular spiral", as they lie in a somewhat rigid medium in the limited space of the cell nucleus. In developmental biology, **cell** type diversity is regulated by long range-acting signaling molecules called morphogens that pattern uniform pools of cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. The morphogen sonic hedgehog...
320. ...t takes a lower signal threshold to activate T cells that have been previously activated. Ras GTPase activation is required for downstream effector functions of activated T cells. Triggering of the T **cell** receptor induces high levels of Ras activation, which results in higher levels of GTP-bound (active) Ras at the cell surface. Since higher levels of active Ras have accumulated at the cell surface in...
321. ...quired for downstream effector functions of activated T cells. Triggering of the T cell receptor induces high levels of Ras activation, which results in higher levels of GTP-bound (active) Ras at the **cell** surface. Since higher levels of active Ras have accumulated at the cell surface in T cells that have been previously stimulated by strong engagement of the T cell receptor, weaker subsequent T cell r...
322. ...g of the T cell receptor induces high levels of Ras activation, which results in higher levels of GTP-bound (active) Ras at the cell surface. Since higher levels of active Ras have accumulated at the **cell** surface in T cells that have been previously stimulated by strong engagement of the T cell receptor, weaker subsequent T cell receptor signals received shortly afterwards will deliver the same level...
323. ...els of GTP-bound (active) Ras at the cell surface. Since higher levels of active Ras have accumulated at the cell surface in T cells that have been previously stimulated by strong engagement of the T **cell** receptor, weaker subsequent T cell receptor signals received shortly afterwards will deliver the same level of activation due to the presence of higher levels of already activated Ras as compared to...
324. ...e cell surface. Since higher levels of active Ras have accumulated at the cell surface in T cells that have been previously stimulated by strong engagement of the T cell receptor, weaker subsequent T **cell** receptor signals received shortly afterwards will deliver the same level of activation due to the presence of higher levels of already activated Ras as compared to a naïve cell. The property by which...
325. ...r, weaker subsequent T cell receptor signals received shortly afterwards will deliver the same level of activation due to the presence of higher levels of already activated Ras as compared to a naïve **cell**. The property by which some neurons do not return to their basal conditions from a stimulated condition immediately after removal of the stimulus is an example of hysteresis. Neuropsychology, in expl...
326. ...omplete blood counts (CBCs) can indicate the severity of exposure. Treatment of ARS is generally supportive care. This may include blood transfusions, antibiotics, colony-stimulating factors, or stem **cell** transplant. Radioactive material remaining on the skin or in the stomach should be removed. If radioiodine was inhaled or ingested, potassium iodide is recommended. Complications such as leukemia and...
327. ...ffects its susceptibility to radiation damage. Clustered damage, defined as at least two lesions within a helical turn, is especially harmful. While DNA damage happens frequently and naturally in the **cell** from endogenous sources, clustered damage is a unique effect of radiation exposure. Clustered damage takes longer to repair than isolated breakages, and is less likely to be repaired at all. Larger r...
328. ...r clustering of damage, and closely localized damage is increasingly less likely to be repaired. Somatic mutations cannot be passed down from parent to offspring, but these mutations can propagate in **cell** lines within an organism. Radiation damage can also cause chromosome and chromatid aberrations, and their effects depend on in which stage of the mitotic cycle the cell is when the irradiation occurs...
329. ...ese mutations can propagate in cell lines within an organism. Radiation damage can also cause chromosome and chromatid aberrations, and their effects depend on in which stage of the mitotic cycle the **cell** is when the irradiation occurs. If the cell is in interphase, while it is still a single strand of chromatin, the damage will be replicated during the S1 phase of the cell cycle, and there will be a...
330. ...thin an organism. Radiation damage can also cause chromosome and chromatid aberrations, and their effects depend on in which stage of the mitotic cycle the cell is when the irradiation occurs. If the **cell** is in interphase, while it is still a single strand of chromatin, the damage will be replicated during the S1 phase of the cell cycle, and there will be a break on both chromosome arms; the damage th...
331. ...ge of the mitotic cycle the cell is when the irradiation occurs. If the cell is in interphase, while it is still a single strand of chromatin, the damage will be replicated during the S1 phase of the **cell** cycle, and there will be a break on both chromosome arms; the damage then will be apparent in both daughter cells. If the irradiation occurs after replication, only one arm will bear the damage; this...
332. ...mosome arms; the damage then will be apparent in both daughter cells. If the irradiation occurs after replication, only one arm will bear the damage; this damage will be apparent in only one daughter **cell**. A damaged chromosome may cyclize, binding to another chromosome, or to itself. Diagnosis is typically made based on a history of significant radiation exposure and suitable clinical findings. An abs...
333. ...ng the feasibility of partial body shielding, a radiation protection strategy that provides adequate attenuation to only the most radio-sensitive organs and tissues inside the body. Irreversible stem **cell** damage in the bone marrow is the first life-threatening effect of intense radiation exposure and therefore one of the most important bodily elements to protect. Due to the regenerative property of he...
334. ...elding from other environmental radionuclides. If an intentional dose is broken up into a number of smaller doses, with time allowed for recovery between irradiations, the same total dose causes less **cell** death. Even without interruptions, a reduction in dose rate below 0.1 Gy/h also tends to reduce cell death. This technique is routinely used in radiotherapy. The human body contains many types of cel...
335. ...maller doses, with time allowed for recovery between irradiations, the same total dose causes less cell death. Even without interruptions, a reduction in dose rate below 0.1 Gy/h also tends to reduce **cell** death. This technique is routinely used in radiotherapy. The human body contains many types of cells and a human can be killed by the loss of a single type of cells in a vital organ. For many short t...
336. ...atal. Treatment usually involves supportive care with possible symptomatic measures employed. The former involves the possible use of antibiotics, blood products, colony stimulating factors, and stem **cell** transplant. There is a direct relationship between the degree of the neutropenia that emerges after exposure to radiation and the increased risk of developing infection. Since there are no controlled...
337. ...ients of varying proximities to the blast itself, leading to the establishment of three recorded stages of the syndrome. Within 25–30 days of the explosion, Sasaki noticed a sharp drop in white blood **cell** count and established this drop, along with symptoms of fever, as prognostic standards for ARS. Actress Midori Naka, who was present during the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, was the first incident of...
338. ...y can block electromagnetic pulse (EMP) waves from natural phenomena very effectively, but especially in upper frequencies, a tracking device may be able to penetrate from within the cage (e.g., some **cell** phones operate at various radio frequencies so while one frequency may not work, another one will). The reception or transmission of radio waves, a form of electromagnetic radiation, to or from an an...
339. ...IV also hosts some computer science and cognition research. TA-V contains two research reactor facilities, an intense gamma irradiation facility (using cobalt-60 and caesium-137 sources), and the Hot **Cell** Facility. SNL/NM also has test areas outside of the five technical areas listed above. These test areas, collectively known as Coyote Test Field, are located southeast of TA-III and/or in the canyons...
340. ...direct piezoelectricity, the remaining one being the cubic class 432. Ten of these twenty piezoelectric classes are polar, i.e., they possess a spontaneous polarization, having a dipole in their unit **cell**, and exhibit pyroelectricity. If this dipole can be reversed by the application of an electric field, the material is said to be ferroelectric. Any dielectric material develops a dielectric polarizat...
341. ...c level. However, the positive and negative charges which make up the material are not necessarily distributed in a symmetric manner. If the sum of charge times distance for all elements of the basic **cell** does not equal zero the cell will have an electric dipole moment (a vector quantity). The dipole moment per unit volume is defined as the dielectric polarization. If this dipole moment changes with t...
342. ...e and negative charges which make up the material are not necessarily distributed in a symmetric manner. If the sum of charge times distance for all elements of the basic cell does not equal zero the **cell** will have an electric dipole moment (a vector quantity). The dipole moment per unit volume is defined as the dielectric polarization. If this dipole moment changes with the effect of applied temperat...
343. ...artial irradiation, and the radiation type or types. The values of these weighting factors are conservatively chosen to be greater than the bulk of experimental values observed for the most sensitive **cell** types, based on averages of those obtained for the human population. Since different radiation types have different biological effects for the same deposited energy, a corrective radiation weighting...
344. ...of 5.5% per sievert. This is known as the linear no-threshold model (LNT model). Some argue that this LNT model is now outdated and should be replaced with a threshold below which the body's natural **cell** processes repair damage and/or replace damaged cells. There is general agreement that the risk is much higher for infants and fetuses than adults, higher for the middle-aged than for seniors, and hig...
345. ...unit for the dose equivalent is the rem, still often used in the United States. One sievert is equal to 100 rem: Action potential An action potential occurs when the membrane potential of a specific **cell** rapidly rises and falls. This depolarization then causes adjacent locations to similarly depolarize. Action potentials occur in several types of excitable cells, which include animal cells like neuro...
346. ...me plant cells. Certain endocrine cells such as pancreatic beta cells, and certain cells of the anterior pituitary gland are also excitable cells. In neurons, action potentials play a central role in **cell**–cell communication by providing for—or with regard to saltatory conduction, assisting—the propagation of signals along the neuron's axon toward synaptic boutons situated at the ends of an axon; these...
347. ...ant cells. Certain endocrine cells such as pancreatic beta cells, and certain cells of the anterior pituitary gland are also excitable cells. In neurons, action potentials play a central role in cell–**cell** communication by providing for—or with regard to saltatory conduction, assisting—the propagation of signals along the neuron's axon toward synaptic boutons situated at the ends of an axon; these sign...
348. ...led its "spike train". A neuron that emits an action potential, or nerve impulse, is often said to "fire". Action potentials are generated by special types of voltage-gated ion channels embedded in a **cell**'s plasma membrane. These channels are shut when the membrane potential is near the (negative) resting potential of the cell, but they rapidly begin to open if the membrane potential increases to a pr...
349. ...are generated by special types of voltage-gated ion channels embedded in a cell's plasma membrane. These channels are shut when the membrane potential is near the (negative) resting potential of the **cell**, but they rapidly begin to open if the membrane potential increases to a precisely defined threshold voltage, depolarising the transmembrane potential. When the channels open, they allow an inward fl...
350. ...ges the electrochemical gradient, which in turn produces a further rise in the membrane potential towards zero. This then causes more channels to open, producing a greater electric current across the **cell** membrane and so on. The process proceeds explosively until all of the available ion channels are open, resulting in a large upswing in the membrane potential. The rapid influx of sodium ions causes t...
351. ...spikes. In cardiac muscle cells, on the other hand, an initial fast sodium spike provides a "primer" to provoke the rapid onset of a calcium spike, which then produces muscle contraction. Nearly all **cell** membranes in animals, plants and fungi maintain a voltage difference between the exterior and interior of the cell, called the membrane potential. A typical voltage across an animal cell membrane is...
352. ...e rapid onset of a calcium spike, which then produces muscle contraction. Nearly all cell membranes in animals, plants and fungi maintain a voltage difference between the exterior and interior of the **cell**, called the membrane potential. A typical voltage across an animal cell membrane is −70 mV. This means that the interior of the cell has a negative voltage relative to the exterior. In most types of...
353. .... Nearly all cell membranes in animals, plants and fungi maintain a voltage difference between the exterior and interior of the cell, called the membrane potential. A typical voltage across an animal **cell** membrane is −70 mV. This means that the interior of the cell has a negative voltage relative to the exterior. In most types of cells, the membrane potential usually stays fairly constant. Some types...
354. ...tain a voltage difference between the exterior and interior of the cell, called the membrane potential. A typical voltage across an animal cell membrane is −70 mV. This means that the interior of the **cell** has a negative voltage relative to the exterior. In most types of cells, the membrane potential usually stays fairly constant. Some types of cells, however, are electrically active in the sense that...
355. ...housandths of a second. In muscle cells, a typical action potential lasts about a fifth of a second. In plant cells, an action potential may last three seconds or more. The electrical properties of a **cell** are determined by the structure of its membrane. A cell membrane consists of a lipid bilayer of molecules in which larger protein molecules are embedded. The lipid bilayer is highly resistant to move...
356. ...n potential lasts about a fifth of a second. In plant cells, an action potential may last three seconds or more. The electrical properties of a cell are determined by the structure of its membrane. A **cell** membrane consists of a lipid bilayer of molecules in which larger protein molecules are embedded. The lipid bilayer is highly resistant to movement of electrically charged ions, so it functions as an...
357. ...membrane. Action potentials are driven by channel proteins whose configuration switches between closed and open states as a function of the voltage difference between the interior and exterior of the **cell**. These voltage-sensitive proteins are known as voltage-gated ion channels. All cells in animal body tissues are electrically polarized – in other words, they maintain a voltage difference across the...
358. .... These voltage-sensitive proteins are known as voltage-gated ion channels. All cells in animal body tissues are electrically polarized – in other words, they maintain a voltage difference across the **cell**'s plasma membrane, known as the membrane potential. This electrical polarization results from a complex interplay between protein structures embedded in the membrane called ion pumps and ion channels...
359. ...mplex interplay between protein structures embedded in the membrane called ion pumps and ion channels. In neurons, the types of ion channels in the membrane usually vary across different parts of the **cell**, giving the dendrites, axon, and cell body different electrical properties. As a result, some parts of the membrane of a neuron may be excitable (capable of generating action potentials), whereas oth...
360. ...ures embedded in the membrane called ion pumps and ion channels. In neurons, the types of ion channels in the membrane usually vary across different parts of the cell, giving the dendrites, axon, and **cell** body different electrical properties. As a result, some parts of the membrane of a neuron may be excitable (capable of generating action potentials), whereas others are not. Recent studies have shown...
361. ...le of generating action potentials), whereas others are not. Recent studies have shown that the most excitable part of a neuron is the part after the axon hillock (the point where the axon leaves the **cell** body), which is called the axonal initial segment, but the axon and cell body are also excitable in most cases. Each excitable patch of membrane has two important levels of membrane potential: the re...
362. ...es have shown that the most excitable part of a neuron is the part after the axon hillock (the point where the axon leaves the cell body), which is called the axonal initial segment, but the axon and **cell** body are also excitable in most cases. Each excitable patch of membrane has two important levels of membrane potential: the resting potential, which is the value the membrane potential maintains as l...
363. ...most cases. Each excitable patch of membrane has two important levels of membrane potential: the resting potential, which is the value the membrane potential maintains as long as nothing perturbs the **cell**, and a higher value called the threshold potential. At the axon hillock of a typical neuron, the resting potential is around –70 millivolts (mV) and the threshold potential is around –55 mV. Synaptic...
364. ...period of time. The shape of the action potential is stereotyped; this means that the rise and fall usually have approximately the same amplitude and time course for all action potentials in a given **cell**. (Exceptions are discussed later in the article). In most neurons, the entire process takes place in about a thousandth of a second. Many types of neurons emit action potentials constantly at rates o...
365. ...tly at rates of up to 10–100 per second. However, some types are much quieter, and may go for minutes or longer without emitting any action potentials. Action potentials result from the presence in a **cell**'s membrane of special types of voltage-gated ion channels. A voltage-gated ion channel is a transmembrane protein that has three key properties: Thus, a voltage-gated ion channel tends to be open for...
366. ..., but form the starting point for most theoretical studies of action potential biophysics. As the membrane potential is increased, sodium ion channels open, allowing the entry of sodium ions into the **cell**. This is followed by the opening of potassium ion channels that permit the exit of potassium ions from the cell. The inward flow of sodium ions increases the concentration of positively charged catio...
367. ...tial is increased, sodium ion channels open, allowing the entry of sodium ions into the cell. This is followed by the opening of potassium ion channels that permit the exit of potassium ions from the **cell**. The inward flow of sodium ions increases the concentration of positively charged cations in the cell and causes depolarization, where the potential of the cell is higher than the cell's resting pote...
368. ...followed by the opening of potassium ion channels that permit the exit of potassium ions from the cell. The inward flow of sodium ions increases the concentration of positively charged cations in the **cell** and causes depolarization, where the potential of the cell is higher than the cell's resting potential. The sodium channels close at the peak of the action potential, while potassium continues to lea...
369. ...it the exit of potassium ions from the cell. The inward flow of sodium ions increases the concentration of positively charged cations in the cell and causes depolarization, where the potential of the **cell** is higher than the cell's resting potential. The sodium channels close at the peak of the action potential, while potassium continues to leave the cell. The efflux of potassium ions decreases the mem...
370. ...ions from the cell. The inward flow of sodium ions increases the concentration of positively charged cations in the cell and causes depolarization, where the potential of the cell is higher than the **cell**'s resting potential. The sodium channels close at the peak of the action potential, while potassium continues to leave the cell. The efflux of potassium ions decreases the membrane potential or hyper...
371. ...uses depolarization, where the potential of the cell is higher than the cell's resting potential. The sodium channels close at the peak of the action potential, while potassium continues to leave the **cell**. The efflux of potassium ions decreases the membrane potential or hyperpolarizes the cell. For small voltage increases from rest, the potassium current exceeds the sodium current and the voltage retu...
372. ...ential. The sodium channels close at the peak of the action potential, while potassium continues to leave the cell. The efflux of potassium ions decreases the membrane potential or hyperpolarizes the **cell**. For small voltage increases from rest, the potassium current exceeds the sodium current and the voltage returns to its normal resting value, typically −70 mV. However, if the voltage increases past...
373. ...V higher than the resting value, the sodium current dominates. This results in a runaway condition whereby the positive feedback from the sodium current activates even more sodium channels. Thus, the **cell** "fires", producing an action potential. The frequency at which a neuron elicits action potentials is often referred to as a firing rate or neural firing rate. Currents produced by the opening of volt...
374. ...ials, electrotonic potentials, subthreshold membrane potential oscillations, and synaptic potentials, which scale with the magnitude of the stimulus. A variety of action potential types exist in many **cell** types and cell compartments as determined by the types of voltage-gated channels, leak channels, channel distributions, ionic concentrations, membrane capacitance, temperature, and other factors. The...
375. ...nic potentials, subthreshold membrane potential oscillations, and synaptic potentials, which scale with the magnitude of the stimulus. A variety of action potential types exist in many cell types and **cell** compartments as determined by the types of voltage-gated channels, leak channels, channel distributions, ionic concentrations, membrane capacitance, temperature, and other factors. The principal ions...
376. ...l distributions, ionic concentrations, membrane capacitance, temperature, and other factors. The principal ions involved in an action potential are sodium and potassium cations; sodium ions enter the **cell**, and potassium ions leave, restoring equilibrium. Relatively few ions need to cross the membrane for the membrane voltage to change drastically. The ions exchanged during an action potential, therefo...
377. ...n concentrations across the membrane. Calcium cations and chloride anions are involved in a few types of action potentials, such as the cardiac action potential and the action potential in the single-**cell** alga "Acetabularia", respectively. Although action potentials are generated locally on patches of excitable membrane, the resulting currents can trigger action potentials on neighboring stretches of...
378. ...of entropy changes and timing disputed the capacitance model as acting alone. Alternatively, Gilbert Ling's adsorption hypothesis, posits that the membrane potential and action potential of a living **cell** is due to the adsorption of mobile ions onto adsorption sites of cells. A neuron's ability to generate and propagate an action potential changes during development. How much the membrane potential of...
379. ...d propagate an action potential changes during development. How much the membrane potential of a neuron changes as the result of a current impulse is a function of the membrane input resistance. As a **cell** grows, more channels are added to the membrane, causing a decrease in input resistance. A mature neuron also undergoes shorter changes in membrane potential in response to synaptic currents. Neurons...
380. ...nels must be added to the membrane. If Xenopus neurons are grown in an environment with RNA synthesis or protein synthesis inhibitors that transition is prevented. Even the electrical activity of the **cell** itself may play a role in channel expression. If action potentials in Xenopus myocytes are blocked, the typical increase in sodium and potassium current density is prevented or delayed. This maturati...
381. ...veral types of cells support an action potential, such as plant cells, muscle cells, and the specialized cells of the heart (in which occurs the cardiac action potential). However, the main excitable **cell** is the neuron, which also has the simplest mechanism for the action potential. Neurons are electrically excitable cells composed, in general, of one or more dendrites, a single soma, a single axon an...
382. ...rthest end, the axon loses its insulation and begins to branch into several axon terminals. These presynaptic terminals, or synaptic boutons, are a specialized area within the axon of the presynaptic **cell** that contains neurotransmitters enclosed in small membrane-bound spheres called synaptic vesicles. Before considering the propagation of action potentials along axons and their termination at the syn...
383. ...ory postsynaptic potentials from a presynaptic neuron. Typically, neurotransmitter molecules are released by the presynaptic neuron. These neurotransmitters then bind to receptors on the postsynaptic **cell**. This binding opens various types of ion channels. This opening has the further effect of changing the local permeability of the cell membrane and, thus, the membrane potential. If the binding increa...
384. ...hese neurotransmitters then bind to receptors on the postsynaptic cell. This binding opens various types of ion channels. This opening has the further effect of changing the local permeability of the **cell** membrane and, thus, the membrane potential. If the binding increases the voltage (depolarizes the membrane), the synapse is excitatory. If, however, the binding decreases the voltage (hyperpolarizes...
385. ...urotransmission can also occur through electrical synapses. Due to the direct connection between excitable cells in the form of gap junctions, an action potential can be transmitted directly from one **cell** to the next in either direction. The free flow of ions between cells enables rapid non-chemical-mediated transmission. Rectifying channels ensure that action potentials move only in one direction thr...
386. ...n be adjusted by external stimuli; for instance, heart rate can be altered by pharmaceuticals as well as signals from the sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves. The external stimuli do not cause the **cell**'s repetitive firing, but merely alter its timing. In some cases, the regulation of frequency can be more complex, leading to patterns of action potentials, such as bursting. The course of the action...
387. ...ential begins at the axon hillock with a sufficiently strong depolarization, e.g., a stimulus that increases "V". This depolarization is often caused by the injection of extra sodium cations into the **cell**; these cations can come from a wide variety of sources, such as chemical synapses, sensory neurons or pacemaker potentials. For a neuron at rest, there is a high concentration of sodium and chloride...
388. ...centration, and electrostatic effects (attraction of opposite charges) are responsible for the movement of ions in and out of the neuron. The inside of a neuron has a negative charge, relative to the **cell** exterior, from the movement of K out of the cell. The neuron membrane is more permeable to K than to other ions, allowing this ion to selectively move out of the cell, down its concentration gradient...
389. ...of opposite charges) are responsible for the movement of ions in and out of the neuron. The inside of a neuron has a negative charge, relative to the cell exterior, from the movement of K out of the **cell**. The neuron membrane is more permeable to K than to other ions, allowing this ion to selectively move out of the cell, down its concentration gradient. This concentration gradient along with potassiu...
390. ...negative charge, relative to the cell exterior, from the movement of K out of the cell. The neuron membrane is more permeable to K than to other ions, allowing this ion to selectively move out of the **cell**, down its concentration gradient. This concentration gradient along with potassium leak channels present on the membrane of the neuron causes an efflux of potassium ions making the resting potential...
391. ...um leak channels present on the membrane of the neuron causes an efflux of potassium ions making the resting potential close to "E" ≈ –75 mV. Since Na ions are in higher concentrations outside of the **cell**, the concentration and voltage differences both drive them into the cell when Na channels open. Depolarization opens both the sodium and potassium channels in the membrane, allowing the ions to flow...
392. ...f potassium ions making the resting potential close to "E" ≈ –75 mV. Since Na ions are in higher concentrations outside of the cell, the concentration and voltage differences both drive them into the **cell** when Na channels open. Depolarization opens both the sodium and potassium channels in the membrane, allowing the ions to flow into and out of the axon, respectively. If the depolarization is small (s...
393. ...lity correspond to the "rising phase" of the action potential. The critical threshold voltage for this runaway condition is usually around −45 mV, but it depends on the recent activity of the axon. A **cell** that has just fired an action potential cannot fire another one immediately, since the Na channels have not recovered from the inactivated state. The period during which no new action potential can b...
394. ..., action potentials that reach the synaptic knobs cause a neurotransmitter to be released into the synaptic cleft. Neurotransmitters are small molecules that may open ion channels in the postsynaptic **cell**; most axons have the same neurotransmitter at all of their termini. The arrival of the action potential opens voltage-sensitive calcium channels in the presynaptic membrane; the influx of calcium cau...
395. ...termini. The arrival of the action potential opens voltage-sensitive calcium channels in the presynaptic membrane; the influx of calcium causes vesicles filled with neurotransmitter to migrate to the **cell**'s surface and release their contents into the synaptic cleft. This complex process is inhibited by the neurotoxins tetanospasmin and botulinum toxin, which are responsible for tetanus and botulism, r...
396. ...the "middleman" of the neurotransmitter, and connect the presynaptic and postsynaptic cells together. When an action potential reaches such a synapse, the ionic currents flowing into the presynaptic **cell** can cross the barrier of the two cell membranes and enter the postsynaptic cell through pores known as connexons. Thus, the ionic currents of the presynaptic action potential can directly stimulate t...
397. ...er, and connect the presynaptic and postsynaptic cells together. When an action potential reaches such a synapse, the ionic currents flowing into the presynaptic cell can cross the barrier of the two **cell** membranes and enter the postsynaptic cell through pores known as connexons. Thus, the ionic currents of the presynaptic action potential can directly stimulate the postsynaptic cell. Electrical synap...
398. ...naptic cells together. When an action potential reaches such a synapse, the ionic currents flowing into the presynaptic cell can cross the barrier of the two cell membranes and enter the postsynaptic **cell** through pores known as connexons. Thus, the ionic currents of the presynaptic action potential can directly stimulate the postsynaptic cell. Electrical synapses allow for faster transmission because...
399. ...arrier of the two cell membranes and enter the postsynaptic cell through pores known as connexons. Thus, the ionic currents of the presynaptic action potential can directly stimulate the postsynaptic **cell**. Electrical synapses allow for faster transmission because they do not require the slow diffusion of neurotransmitters across the synaptic cleft. Hence, electrical synapses are used whenever fast res...
400. ...especially arrhythmias. Several anti-arrhythmia drugs act on the cardiac action potential, such as quinidine, lidocaine, beta blockers, and verapamil. The action potential in a normal skeletal muscle **cell** is similar to the action potential in neurons. Action potentials result from the depolarization of the cell membrane (the sarcolemma), which opens voltage-sensitive sodium channels; these become inac...
401. ..., lidocaine, beta blockers, and verapamil. The action potential in a normal skeletal muscle cell is similar to the action potential in neurons. Action potentials result from the depolarization of the **cell** membrane (the sarcolemma), which opens voltage-sensitive sodium channels; these become inactivated and the membrane is repolarized through the outward current of potassium ions. The resting potential...
402. ...st measurements of action potentials in plants, which had previously been discovered by Burdon-Sanderson and Darwin. An increase in cytoplasmic calcium ions may be the cause of anion release into the **cell**. This makes calcium a precursor to ion movements, such as the influx of negative chloride ions and efflux of positive potassium ions, as seen in barley leaves. The initial influx of calcium ions also...
403. ...on the trap of the plant, it triggers a hair-like mechanoreceptor. This receptor then activates an action potential that lasts around 1.5 ms. This causes an increase of positive calcium ions into the **cell**, slightly depolarizing it. However, the flytrap does not close after one trigger. Instead, it requires the activation of two or more hairs. If only one hair is triggered, it disregards the activation...
404. ...Thus, a buildup of calcium begins and then slowly falls after the first trigger. When the second action potential is fired within the time interval, it reaches the calcium threshold to depolarize the **cell**, closing the trap on the prey within a fraction of a second. Together with the subsequent release of positive potassium ions the action potential in plants involves an osmotic loss of salt (KCl). Whe...
405. ...in metazoan excitable cells. Unlike the rising phase and peak, the falling phase and after-hyperpolarization seem to depend primarily on cations that are not calcium. To initiate repolarization, the **cell** requires movement of potassium out of the cell through passive transportation on the membrane. This differs from neurons because the movement of potassium does not dominate the decrease in membrane p...
406. ...phase and peak, the falling phase and after-hyperpolarization seem to depend primarily on cations that are not calcium. To initiate repolarization, the cell requires movement of potassium out of the **cell** through passive transportation on the membrane. This differs from neurons because the movement of potassium does not dominate the decrease in membrane potential. To fully repolarize, a plant cell req...
407. ...the cell through passive transportation on the membrane. This differs from neurons because the movement of potassium does not dominate the decrease in membrane potential. To fully repolarize, a plant **cell** requires energy in the form of ATP to assist in the release of hydrogen from the cell – utilizing a transporter called proton ATPase. Action potentials are found throughout multicellular organisms, i...
408. ...ause the movement of potassium does not dominate the decrease in membrane potential. To fully repolarize, a plant cell requires energy in the form of ATP to assist in the release of hydrogen from the **cell** – utilizing a transporter called proton ATPase. Action potentials are found throughout multicellular organisms, including plants, invertebrates such as insects, and vertebrates such as reptiles and m...
409. ...f nerve conduction. It focused on three goals: isolating signals from single neurons or axons, developing fast, sensitive electronics, and shrinking electrodes enough that the voltage inside a single **cell** could be recorded. The first problem was solved by studying the giant axons found in the neurons of the squid ("Loligo forbesii" and "Doryteuthis pealeii", at the time classified as "Loligo pealeii")...
410. ...to diffuse from one region to another, then there is a certain free energy released by each net-diffusing molecule. This energy, which can sometimes be harnessed (a simple example is a concentration **cell**), and the free-energy per mole is exactly equal to the electrochemical potential difference between the two regions. It is common in electrochemistry and solid-state physics to discuss both the chemi...
411. ...roanalytical chemistry, and industrial applications such as batteries and fuel cells. It represents one of the many interchangeable forms of potential energy through which energy may be conserved. In **cell** membranes, the electrochemical potential is the sum of the chemical potential and the membrane potential. The term "electrochemical potential" is sometimes used to mean an electrode potential (either...
412. ...white light has a limited coherence length, on the order of micrometers, great care must be taken to equalize the optical paths or no fringes will be visible. As illustrated in Fig. 6, a compensating **cell** would be placed in the path of the reference beam to match the test cell. Note also the precise orientation of the beam splitters. The reflecting surfaces of the beam splitters would be oriented so t...
413. ...great care must be taken to equalize the optical paths or no fringes will be visible. As illustrated in Fig. 6, a compensating cell would be placed in the path of the reference beam to match the test **cell**. Note also the precise orientation of the beam splitters. The reflecting surfaces of the beam splitters would be oriented so that the test and reference beams pass through an equal amount of glass. I...
414. ...for example in the analysis of planar silicon semiconductor processing. Angle-resolved low-coherence interferometry (a/LCI) uses scattered light to measure the sizes of subcellular objects, including **cell** nuclei. This allows interferometry depth measurements to be combined with density measurements. Various correlations have been found between the state of tissue health and the measurements of subcell...
415. ...orrelations have been found between the state of tissue health and the measurements of subcellular objects. For example, it has been found that as tissue changes from normal to cancerous, the average **cell** nuclei size increases. Phase-contrast X-ray imaging (Fig. 26) refers to a variety of techniques that use phase information of a coherent x-ray beam to image soft tissues. (For an elementary discussio...
416. ...vantage of the flexible nature of the substrates, such as electronics embedded into clothing, large-area flexible displays, and roll-up portable displays. A crucial issue for a roll-to-roll thin-film **cell** production system is the deposition rate of the microcrystalline layer, and this can be tackled using four approaches: The roll-to-roll processing has been used in the manufacture of electrochemical...
417. ...ansition temperature and goes up from there. All common molding processes may be used, including injection molding, compression molding, and extrusion. The highest quality PMMA sheets are produced by **cell** casting, but in this case, the polymerization and molding steps occur concurrently. The strength of the material is higher than molding grades owing to its extremely high molecular mass. Rubber tough...
418. ...aborer performs work equal to about half a kilowatt-hour over an eight-hour day. To convert a quantity measured in a unit in the left column to the units in the top row, multiply by the factor in the **cell** where the row and column intersect. All the SI prefixes are commonly applied to the watt-hour: a kilowatt-hour is 1,000 Wh (kWh); a megawatt-hour is 1 million Wh (MWh); a milliwatt-hour is 1/1,000 Wh...
419. ...rm trilinear interpolation on the set of points. The interpolation weights are then used to distribute the magnitude of the associated component of "n" onto the nodes of the particular staggered grid **cell** containing "p". Kazhdan and coauthors give a more accurate method of discretization using an adaptive finite-difference grid, i.e. the cells of the grid are smaller (the grid is more finely divided)...
420. ...ansfer. As discussed above, electrons are the primary mover in metals; however, other devices such as the cationic electrolyte(s) of a battery, or the mobile protons of the proton conductor of a fuel **cell** rely on positive charge carriers. Insulators are non-conducting materials with few mobile charges that support only insignificant electric currents. The resistance of a given conductor depends on the...
421. ...uch as medicine, nuclear power, research, and industrial manufacturing, but presents a health hazard if proper measures against excessive exposure are not taken. Exposure to ionizing radiation causes **cell** damage to living tissue and organ damage. In high acute doses, it will result in radiation burns and radiation sickness, and lower level doses over a protracted time can cause cancer. The Internation...
422. ...d is effectively a combination of shielding and isolation from the open environment. Radioactive materials are confined in the smallest possible space and kept out of the environment such as in a hot **cell** (for radiation) or glove box (for contamination). Radioactive isotopes for medical use, for example, are dispensed in closed handling facilities, usually gloveboxes, while nuclear reactors operate wi...
423. ...f quorum sensing plays a role in the regulation of luminescence in many species of bacteria. Small extracellularly secreted molecules stimulate the bacteria to turn on genes for light production when **cell** density, measured by concentration of the secreted molecules, is high. Pyrosomes are colonial tunicates and each zooid has a pair of luminescent organs on either side of the inlet siphon. When stimul...
424. ...as the Hawaiian bobtail squid ("Euprymna scolopes"), are key experimental models for bioluminescence. Bioluminescent activated destruction is an experimental cancer treatment. "In Vivo" luminescence **cell** and animal imaging uses dyes and fluorescent proteins as chromophores. The characteristics of each chromophore determine which cell area(s) will be targeted and illuminated. The structures of photoph...
425. ...ruction is an experimental cancer treatment. "In Vivo" luminescence cell and animal imaging uses dyes and fluorescent proteins as chromophores. The characteristics of each chromophore determine which **cell** area(s) will be targeted and illuminated. The structures of photophores, the light producing organs in bioluminescent organisms, are being investigated by industrial designers. Engineered bioluminesc...
426. ...presence of living microbes in water. Different types of microbial populations are determined through different sets of ATP assays using other substrates and reagents. "Renilla"- and "Gaussia"-based **cell** viability assays use the substrate coelenterazine. Magnetic refrigeration Magnetic refrigeration is a cooling technology based on the magnetocaloric effect. This technique can be used to attain extre...
427. ...nfrared through short-wavelength ultra-violet was done with a photoelectric photometer, an instrument that measured the light intensity of a single object by directing its light onto a photosensitive **cell** like a photomultiplier tube. These have largely been replaced with CCD cameras that can simultaneously image multiple objects, although photoelectric photometers are still used in special situations,...
428. ...e interactions and exchange interactions resulting from the Pauli exclusion principle. The main difference is that in ferrimagnetic materials there are different types of atoms in the material's unit **cell**. An example of this can be seen in the figure above. Here the atoms with a smaller magnetic moment point in the opposite direction of the larger moments. This arrangement is similar to that present i...
429. ...tate, neoprene is a very pliable rubber-like material with insulating properties similar to rubber or other solid plastics. Neoprene foam is used in many applications and is produced in either closed-**cell** or open-cell form. The closed-cell form is waterproof, less compressible and more expensive. The open-cell form can be breathable. It is manufactured by foaming the rubber with nitrogen gas, where th...
430. ...e is a very pliable rubber-like material with insulating properties similar to rubber or other solid plastics. Neoprene foam is used in many applications and is produced in either closed-cell or open-**cell** form. The closed-cell form is waterproof, less compressible and more expensive. The open-cell form can be breathable. It is manufactured by foaming the rubber with nitrogen gas, where the tiny enclos...
431. ...bber-like material with insulating properties similar to rubber or other solid plastics. Neoprene foam is used in many applications and is produced in either closed-cell or open-cell form. The closed-**cell** form is waterproof, less compressible and more expensive. The open-cell form can be breathable. It is manufactured by foaming the rubber with nitrogen gas, where the tiny enclosed and separated gas b...
432. ...solid plastics. Neoprene foam is used in many applications and is produced in either closed-cell or open-cell form. The closed-cell form is waterproof, less compressible and more expensive. The open-**cell** form can be breathable. It is manufactured by foaming the rubber with nitrogen gas, where the tiny enclosed and separated gas bubbles can also serve as insulation. Nitrogen gas is most commonly used...
433. ...09, a Korean research team found a way to greatly improve organic light-emitting diode efficiency with the use of plasmons. A group of European researchers led by IMEC has begun work to improve solar **cell** efficiencies and costs through incorporation of metallic nanostructures (using plasmonic effects) that can enhance absorption of light into different types of solar cells: crystalline silicon (c-Si),...
434. ...the device operates nonlinearly, changing abruptly from one state to another, with hysteresis. The advantage of using a negative resistance device is that a relaxation oscillator, flip-flop or memory **cell** can be built with a single active device, whereas the standard logic circuit for these functions, the Eccles-Jordan multivibrator, requires two active devices (transistors). Three switching circuits...
435. ...activating the other Androids. After being defeated by Android 17, Piccolo seeks to unite with Kami and gain another massive increase in power. Piccolo becomes aware of a more dangerous threat named **Cell**, who seeks to absorb #17 and #18. After Cell escapes, Piccolo once again battles the Androids, except this time he battles #17 one one-on-one. After a somewhat even match, Cell arrives on the battle...
436. ...efeated by Android 17, Piccolo seeks to unite with Kami and gain another massive increase in power. Piccolo becomes aware of a more dangerous threat named Cell, who seeks to absorb #17 and #18. After **Cell** escapes, Piccolo once again battles the Androids, except this time he battles #17 one one-on-one. After a somewhat even match, Cell arrives on the battle scene; Cell needs to absorb the Androids to c...
437. ...dangerous threat named Cell, who seeks to absorb #17 and #18. After Cell escapes, Piccolo once again battles the Androids, except this time he battles #17 one one-on-one. After a somewhat even match, **Cell** arrives on the battle scene; Cell needs to absorb the Androids to complete his power. While trying to prevent this, Piccolo is nearly killed by Cell, surviving the encounter thanks to his regenerativ...
438. ...eeks to absorb #17 and #18. After Cell escapes, Piccolo once again battles the Androids, except this time he battles #17 one one-on-one. After a somewhat even match, Cell arrives on the battle scene; **Cell** needs to absorb the Androids to complete his power. While trying to prevent this, Piccolo is nearly killed by Cell, surviving the encounter thanks to his regenerative abilities and following some tra...
439. ...s #17 one one-on-one. After a somewhat even match, Cell arrives on the battle scene; Cell needs to absorb the Androids to complete his power. While trying to prevent this, Piccolo is nearly killed by **Cell**, surviving the encounter thanks to his regenerative abilities and following some training in the Room of Spirit and Time, he is forced to participate in a tournament created by Cell called the Cell G...
440. ...nearly killed by Cell, surviving the encounter thanks to his regenerative abilities and following some training in the Room of Spirit and Time, he is forced to participate in a tournament created by **Cell** called the Cell Games, where he fights one of the seven Cell Juniors that are created by Cell, who are later destroyed by Gohan. Seven years later, Piccolo is poised to fight the Supreme Kai at the 2...
441. ...y Cell, surviving the encounter thanks to his regenerative abilities and following some training in the Room of Spirit and Time, he is forced to participate in a tournament created by Cell called the **Cell** Games, where he fights one of the seven Cell Juniors that are created by Cell, who are later destroyed by Gohan. Seven years later, Piccolo is poised to fight the Supreme Kai at the 25th "Tenkaichi B...
442. ...regenerative abilities and following some training in the Room of Spirit and Time, he is forced to participate in a tournament created by Cell called the Cell Games, where he fights one of the seven **Cell** Juniors that are created by Cell, who are later destroyed by Gohan. Seven years later, Piccolo is poised to fight the Supreme Kai at the 25th "Tenkaichi Budōkai", forfeiting the match after finding h...
443. ...wing some training in the Room of Spirit and Time, he is forced to participate in a tournament created by Cell called the Cell Games, where he fights one of the seven Cell Juniors that are created by **Cell**, who are later destroyed by Gohan. Seven years later, Piccolo is poised to fight the Supreme Kai at the 25th "Tenkaichi Budōkai", forfeiting the match after finding himself reluctant to fight and jou...
444. ...plan to sabotage the army's ploy and put Gohan back to fighting spirit. He then ascends to his first true transformation as a "little extra" from the dragon, referred to as . He battles the monstrous **Cell** Max giant-to-giant, but is severely outmatched and injured, causing Gohan to awaken his power through fury. He then restrains the monster for Gohan to pierce his forehead with a "Makankōsappō." Short...
445. ...becomes the leader of Buu and Dabura. After fighting Gohan, he flees and absorbs Buu, increasing his power. Piccolo then announces via television his intent to take over the world, and partners with **Cell** and Frieza before being defeated by Gohan. In the 2011 game "", Piccolo is defeated by Baby, encountering and battling the player while training, causing the player's Super Saiyan transformation and...
446. ...of Demigra, and in the final battle against Demigra, Piccolo gives the player his energy. In the 2016 game "Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2", Piccolo and Android 16 are defeated by Villainous Mode Imperfect **Cell**, allowing him to absorb #17 and #18 at the same time. The player then comes to assist Piccolo in his fight against Cell. In the 2018 game "Dragon Ball FighterZ", Piccolo is found unconscious by Goku...
447. ...Xenoverse 2", Piccolo and Android 16 are defeated by Villainous Mode Imperfect Cell, allowing him to absorb #17 and #18 at the same time. The player then comes to assist Piccolo in his fight against **Cell**. In the 2018 game "Dragon Ball FighterZ", Piccolo is found unconscious by Goku and Krillin, and agrees to help them fight off clones and discover their origins upon waking up. Piccolo joins the two i...
448. ...In doing so, Electro uses up so much of his newfound power that Spider-Man is able to neutralize him with his webbing. In the epilogue, Electro runs into Sasha Kravinoff and Chameleon in his new jail **cell**. In the following issue involving Sandman, it is revealed that Electro has escaped. Under the orders of the Kravinoffs, he breaks the fourth Vulture out of prison. During the "Heroic Age" storyline,...
449. ...thin allowable limits but may generate an undesired signal that interferes with a licensed communications device. It also generally means that users who intentionally radiate signals (TV stations and **cell** phone companies) can order the device turned off if it interferes with their licensed operations. There is an entire industry based on regulatory compliance: manufacturers shipping a product to a for...
450. ...frequency (currently ~ 3 GHz) for a Radio-frequency quadrupole (RFQ) stage from injection at 50kVdC to ~5MeV bunches, a Side Coupled Drift Tube Linac (SCDTL) to accelerate from 5Mev to ~ 40MeV and a **Cell** Coupled Linac (CCL) stage final, taking the output to 200-230MeV. Each stage is optimised to allow close coupling and synchronous operation during the beam energy build-up. The project aim is to make...
451. ...e distance along the beam direction (z-axis by convention) from the diffraction spot to the Ewald sphere, and formula_42 is the structure factor:formula_43the sum being over all the atoms in the unit **cell** with formula_44 the form factors, formula_17 the reciprocal lattice vector, formula_46 is a simplified form of the Debye–Waller factor, and formula_3 is the wavevector for the diffraction beam which...
452. ...f this is real and due to some novel material, or just a case where multiple crystals and diffraction is leading to odd results. Many materials have relatively simple structures based upon small unit **cell** vectors formula_54 (see also note). There are many others where the repeat is some larger multiple of the smaller unit cell (subcell) along one or more direction, for instance formula_55. which has l...
453. ...lts. Many materials have relatively simple structures based upon small unit cell vectors formula_54 (see also note). There are many others where the repeat is some larger multiple of the smaller unit **cell** (subcell) along one or more direction, for instance formula_55. which has larger dimensions in two directions. These superstructures can arise from many reasons: In addition to those which occur in t...
454. ...to a bulk superstructure there will be additional, weaker diffraction spots. One example is for the silicon (111) surface, where there is a supercell which is seven times larger than the simple bulk **cell** in two directions. This leads to diffraction patterns with additional spots some of which are marked in Figure 14. Here the (220) are stronger bulk diffraction spots, and the weaker ones due to the s...
455. ...on are harder problems since returns on investment are not as easy to find. Although electricity had been known to be produced as a result of the chemical reactions that take place in an electrolytic **cell** since Alessandro Volta developed the voltaic pile in 1800, its production by this means was, and still is, expensive. In 1831, Michael Faraday devised a machine that generated electricity from rotary...
456. ...ber of neighbors. In biological systems, modified versions of the lattice gas model have been used to understand a range of binding behaviors. These include the binding of ligands to receptors in the **cell** surface, the binding of chemotaxis proteins to the flagellar motor, and the condensation of DNA. The activity of neurons in the brain can be modelled statistically. Each neuron at any time is either...
457. ...s, spectrum analyzer is used to find the levels of different harmonics. In telecommunications, spectrum analyzers are used to determine occupied bandwidth and track interference sources. For example, **cell** planners use this equipment to determine interference sources in the GSM frequency bands and UMTS frequency bands. In EMC testing, a spectrum analyzer is used for basic precompliance testing; however...
458. ...ochastic risk provided the amount and type of tissue involved is stated. Localised diagnostic dose levels are typically in the 0–50 mGy range. At a dose of 1 milligray (mGy) of photon radiation, each **cell** nucleus is crossed by an average of 1 liberated electron track. The absorbed dose required to produce a certain biological effect varies between different types of radiation, such as photons, neutron...
459. ...University have devised a method to generate vacuum ultraviolet light using different forms of lighting, by employing sharp conductive needles placed within a dense gas, such as xenon, contained in a **cell**. They achieve this by applying a high negative voltage to the needles in the xenon-filled cell, resulting in the efficient production of vacuum ultraviolet light. St. Elmo's Fire being similar, they...
460. ...lighting, by employing sharp conductive needles placed within a dense gas, such as xenon, contained in a cell. They achieve this by applying a high negative voltage to the needles in the xenon-filled **cell**, resulting in the efficient production of vacuum ultraviolet light. St. Elmo's Fire being similar, they believe it could be used as lighting but with a higher power source, thus increasing efficiency...
461. ...ality of stem cells make it only necessary to protect enough bone marrow to repopulate the body with unaffected stem cells after the exposure: a similar concept which is applied in hematopoietic stem **cell** transplantation (HSCT), which is a common treatment for patients with leukemia. This scientific advancement allows for the development of a new class of relatively lightweight protective equipment th...
462. ...tense than radiation sources such as medical X-rays or normal cosmic radiation usually experienced on Earth. When the intensely ionizing particles found in space strike human tissue, it can result in **cell** damage and may eventually lead to cancer. The usual method for radiation protection is material shielding by spacecraft and equipment structures (usually aluminium), possibly augmented by polyethylen...
463. ...or higher temperatures up to 125 °C. One of the first tantalum electrolytic capacitors were developed in 1930 by Tansitor Electronic Inc. USA, for military purposes. The basic construction of a wound **cell** was adopted and a tantalum anode foil was used together with a tantalum cathode foil, separated with a paper spacer impregnated with a liquid electrolyte, mostly sulfuric acid, and encapsulated in a...
464. ...ectrolytes reached very low ESR values directly comparable to ceramic multilayer capacitors (MLCCs). They were still less expensive than tantalum capacitors and with their flat design for laptops and **cell** phones competed with tantalum chip capacitors as well. Tantalum electrolytic capacitors with PPy polymer electrolyte cathode followed three years later. In 1993 NEC introduced its SMD polymer tantalu...
465. ...s hammer). However, Magneto does believe that humanity has done some good things as is shown in his appreciation for art, especially that of René Magritte. Magneto was imprisoned in a special plastic **cell** in the Triskelion following the events of "Return of the King", the sixth arc in the series. Aside from a brief mention in the "Ultimate Six" arc of Ultimate Spider-Man, he was then unseen until "Mag...
466. ...cape, utilizing the willing cooperation of Forge and Mystique as well as the unknowing but amicable aid of Longshot's mutation for luck. Magneto escapes by the end of the arc, leaving Mystique in his **cell** to impersonate him. He and Longshot then exit the Triskelion unharassed and Magneto makes it clear to Longshot that he has something different planned than any of his more typical world-domination sc...
467. ...must be considered in setting up an absorption spectroscopy experiment include the optics used to direct the radiation and the means of holding or containing the sample material (called a cuvette or **cell**). For most UV, visible, and NIR measurements the use of precision quartz cuvettes are necessary. In both cases, it is important to select materials that have relatively little absorption of their own...
468. ...t all times, which would eliminate any power loss due to Coulomb scattering, resulting in a net energy gain. Working off this design, researchers in Russia simulated the POPS design using particle-in-**cell** code in 2009. This reactor concept becomes increasingly efficient as the size of the device shrinks. However, very high transparencies (>99.999%) are required for successful operation of the POPS con...
469. ...accuracy. In 2016, DBS was found to improve learning and memory in a mouse model of Rett syndrome. More recent (2018) work showed, that forniceal DBS upregulates genes involved in synaptic function, **cell** survival, and neurogenesis, making some first steps at explaining the restoration of hippocampal circuit function. DBS is FDA approved or has FDA device exemptions for treatment of Parkinson's Diseas...
470. ...n be injected, molded or welded and is commonly used in the chemical, semiconductor, medical and defense industries, as well as in lithium-ion batteries. It is also available as a cross-linked closed-**cell** foam, used increasingly in aviation and aerospace applications, and as an exotic 3D printer filament. It can also be used in repeated contact with food products, as it is FDA-compliant and non-toxic...
471. ...TGTG' for α and δ phase, TTTT for β phases, and TTTGTTTG' for γ and ε phases. The α and ε conformations lack piezoelectric properties because of the antiparallel alignment of dipoles within its unit **cell**. The β, γ, and δ phases feature a parallel arrangement of dipoles, rendering them polar crystals with a non-zero dipole moment. Among these phases, the β phase stands out due to its remarkable remnan...
472. ...of dipoles, rendering them polar crystals with a non-zero dipole moment. Among these phases, the β phase stands out due to its remarkable remnant polarization and the highest dipolar moment per unit **cell**, garnering more interest compared to the others. When poled, PVDF is a ferroelectric polymer, exhibiting efficient piezoelectric and pyroelectric properties. These characteristics make it useful in s...
473. ...to Hahn Institute suggested that under certain conditions such as extreme pressure transitioned to a superconductive form at 150 GPa (around 1.5 million times atmospheric pressure) in a diamond anvil **cell**. The critical temperature is which would be the highest "T" ever recorded and their research suggests that other hydrogen compounds could superconduct at up to . Also in 2018, researchers noted a pos...
474. ...fter beating him at Chess after only 12 or so games, Magneto beats her into unconsciousness with a chair, and then uses her to goad Havok into rescuing her, so that he can escape the maximum-security **cell** by swapping places with Mystique. In the end, Polaris' name is cleared and she returns to the Academy of Tomorrow. She was killed in Ultimatum along with the rest of the Academy of Tomorrow except fo...
475. ...er Petkau-Effekt und unsere strahlende Zukunft" (The Petkau effect and our Radiating Future). Petkau had been measuring, in the usual way, the radiation dose that would rupture a simulated artificial **cell** membrane. He found that 3500 rads delivered in  hours (26 rad/min = 15.5 Sv/h) would do it. Then, almost by chance, Petkau repeated the experiment with much weaker radiation and found that 0.7 rad de...
476. ...articles. They use the light's momentum to exert small forces on a sample. This technique allows for the organizing and sorting of cells, the tracking of the movement of bacteria, and the changing of **cell** structure Laser micro-scalpels are a combination of fluorescence microscopy and a femtosecond laser "can penetrate up to 250 micrometers into tissue and target single cells in 3-D space." The technol...
477. ...t resulting in the effect that it continues to “glow-in-the-dark” even long after the stimulating light source has been removed. A biolaser is when laser light is generated by or from within a living **cell**. Imaging in biophotonics often relies on laser light, and integration with biological systems is seen as a promising route to enhancing sensing and imaging techniques. Biolasers, like any lasers, req...
478. ...feedback structure and a pump source. For the gain medium, a variety of naturally produced fluorescent proteins can be used in different laser structure. Enclosing an optical feedback structure in a **cell** has been demonstrated using cell vacuoles, as well as using fully enclosed laser systems such as dye doped polymer microspheres, or semiconductor nanodisks lasers. The predominantly used light source...
479. ...urce. For the gain medium, a variety of naturally produced fluorescent proteins can be used in different laser structure. Enclosing an optical feedback structure in a cell has been demonstrated using **cell** vacuoles, as well as using fully enclosed laser systems such as dye doped polymer microspheres, or semiconductor nanodisks lasers. The predominantly used light sources are beam lights. LEDs and super...
480. ...fur, and iodine have been used extensively to trace the path of biochemical reactions. A radioactive tracer can also be used to track the distribution of a substance within a natural system such as a **cell** or tissue, or as a flow tracer to track fluid flow. Radioactive tracers are also used to determine the location of fractures created by hydraulic fracturing in natural gas production. Radioactive tra...
481. ...King's College London; and in 1835 he was appointed to the equivalent post at the East India Company's Military Seminary at Addiscombe, Surrey. His name is best known for his invention of the Daniell **cell**, an element of an electric battery much better than voltaic cells. He also invented the dew-point hygrometer known by his name, and a register pyrometer; and in 1830 he erected in the hall of the Roy...
482. ...by W.H.I.S.P.E.R. and the Creature from the Kosmos. They defeated Whirlwind who offered to tell them who hired him in exchange for protection. Whirlwind did not get protection as he was killed in his **cell** by a mysterious person. Mayor Luke Cage dispatched Wasp to the Raft to investigate the murders there. When the dead bodies came back to life and attacked Wasp, she is saved by Whirlwind whose dead bo...
483. ...ynaptic potential that makes a postsynaptic neuron "more" likely to generate an action potential. IPSPs can take place at all chemical synapses, which use the secretion of neurotransmitters to create **cell**-to-cell signalling. EPSPs and IPSPs compete with each other at numerous synapses of a neuron. This determines whether an action potential occurring at the presynaptic terminal produces an action pote...
484. ...potential that makes a postsynaptic neuron "more" likely to generate an action potential. IPSPs can take place at all chemical synapses, which use the secretion of neurotransmitters to create cell-to-**cell** signalling. EPSPs and IPSPs compete with each other at numerous synapses of a neuron. This determines whether an action potential occurring at the presynaptic terminal produces an action potential at...
485. ...tial is between the resting threshold and the action potential threshold. Another way to look at inhibitory postsynaptic potentials is that they are also a chloride conductance change in the neuronal **cell** because it decreases the driving force. This is because, if the neurotransmitter released into the synaptic cleft causes an increase in the permeability of the postsynaptic membrane to chloride ions...
486. ...ceptor channel, reverse potential of the postsynaptic potential, action potential threshold voltage, ionic permeability of the ion channel, as well as the concentrations of the ions in and out of the **cell**; this determines if it is excitatory or inhibitory. IPSPs always tend to keep the membrane potential more negative than the action potential threshold and can be seen as a "transient hyperpolarizatio...
487. ...ntials. A neurotransmitter binds to the extracellular site and opens the ion channel that is made up of a membrane-spanning domain that allows ions to flow across the membrane inside the postsynaptic **cell**. This type of receptor produces very fast postsynaptic actions within a couple of milliseconds of the presynaptic terminal receiving an action potential. These channels influence the amplitude and ti...
488. ...portant because spiking timing is needed for proper sound localization in the ascending auditory pathways. Songbirds use GABAergic calyceal synaptic terminals and a calcyx-like synapse such that each **cell** in the dorsalateral thalamic nucleus receives at most two axon terminals from the basal ganglia to create large postsynaptic currents. Inhibitory postsynaptic potentials are also used to study the ba...
489. ...ion of metabotropic glutamate receptors removes any theta IPSP activity through a G-protein, calcium ion–independent pathway. Inhibitory postsynaptic potentials have also been studied in the Purkinje **cell** through dendritic amplification. The study focused in on the propagation of IPSPs along dendrites and its dependency of ionotropic receptors by measuring the amplitude and time-course of the inhibito...
490. ...the postsynaptic neuron more likely to fire an action potential. This temporary depolarization of postsynaptic membrane potential, caused by the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic **cell**, is a result of opening ligand-gated ion channels. These are the opposite of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), which usually result from the flow of "negative" ions into the cell or positiv...
491. ...stsynaptic cell, is a result of opening ligand-gated ion channels. These are the opposite of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), which usually result from the flow of "negative" ions into the **cell** or positive ions "out" of the cell. EPSPs can also result from a decrease in outgoing positive charges, while IPSPs are sometimes caused by an increase in positive charge outflow. The flow of ions th...
492. ...ning ligand-gated ion channels. These are the opposite of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), which usually result from the flow of "negative" ions into the cell or positive ions "out" of the **cell**. EPSPs can also result from a decrease in outgoing positive charges, while IPSPs are sometimes caused by an increase in positive charge outflow. The flow of ions that causes an EPSP is an excitatory...
493. ...patch of postsynaptic membrane, their combined effect is the sum of the individual EPSPs. Larger EPSPs result in greater membrane depolarization and thus increase the likelihood that the postsynaptic **cell** reaches the threshold for firing an action potential. EPSPs in living cells are caused chemically. When an active presynaptic cell releases neurotransmitters into the synapse, some of them bind to re...
494. ...epolarization and thus increase the likelihood that the postsynaptic cell reaches the threshold for firing an action potential. EPSPs in living cells are caused chemically. When an active presynaptic **cell** releases neurotransmitters into the synapse, some of them bind to receptors on the postsynaptic cell. Many of these receptors contain an ion channel capable of passing positively charged ions either...
495. ...iring an action potential. EPSPs in living cells are caused chemically. When an active presynaptic cell releases neurotransmitters into the synapse, some of them bind to receptors on the postsynaptic **cell**. Many of these receptors contain an ion channel capable of passing positively charged ions either into or out of the cell (such receptors are called ionotropic receptors). At excitatory synapses, the...
496. ...smitters into the synapse, some of them bind to receptors on the postsynaptic cell. Many of these receptors contain an ion channel capable of passing positively charged ions either into or out of the **cell** (such receptors are called ionotropic receptors). At excitatory synapses, the ion channel typically allows sodium into the cell, generating an excitatory postsynaptic current. This depolarizing curre...
497. ...el capable of passing positively charged ions either into or out of the cell (such receptors are called ionotropic receptors). At excitatory synapses, the ion channel typically allows sodium into the **cell**, generating an excitatory postsynaptic current. This depolarizing current causes an increase in membrane potential, the EPSP. The neurotransmitter most often associated with EPSPs is the amino acid g...
498. ...nically incorrect, as there are several other synaptic factors that help determine a neurotransmitter's excitatory or inhibitory effects. The release of neurotransmitter vesicles from the presynaptic **cell** is probabilistic. In fact, even without stimulation of the presynaptic cell, a single vesicle will occasionally be released into the synapse, generating miniature EPSPs  (mEPSPs). Bernard Katz pionee...
499. ...ermine a neurotransmitter's excitatory or inhibitory effects. The release of neurotransmitter vesicles from the presynaptic cell is probabilistic. In fact, even without stimulation of the presynaptic **cell**, a single vesicle will occasionally be released into the synapse, generating miniature EPSPs  (mEPSPs). Bernard Katz pioneered the study of these mEPSPs at the neuromuscular junction (often called mi...
500. ...ve impulse. "Quantal analysis" refers to the methods used to deduce, for a particular synapse, how many quanta of transmitter are released and what the average effect of each quantum is on the target **cell**, measured in terms of amount of ions flowing (charge) or change in the membrane potential. EPSPs are usually recorded using intracellular electrodes. The extracellular signal from a single neuron is...
501. ...ction recorded during a field EPSP is negative-going, while an intracellularly recorded EPSP is positive-going. This difference is due to the relative flow of ions (primarily the sodium ion) into the **cell**, which, in the case of the field EPSP is away from the electrode, while for an intracellular EPSPs it is towards the electrode. After a field EPSP, the extracellular electrode may record another chan...
502. ...ys: create point defects, vacancies, or rattling structures (heavy-ion species with large vibrational amplitudes contained within partially filled structural sites) to scatter phonons within the unit **cell** crystal; (2) Complex crystals: separate the phonon glass from the electron crystal using approaches similar to those for superconductors (the region responsible for electron transport should be an el...
503. ...rt. In such case, ZT~1.7 can be achieved at 815 K for p-type material. In 2014, researchers at Northwestern University discovered that tin selenide (SnSe) has a ZT of 2.6 along the b axis of the unit **cell**. This was the highest value reported to date. This was attributed to an extremely low thermal conductivity found in the SnSe lattice. Specifically, SnSe demonstrated a lattice thermal conductivity of...
504. ...disease risk. The possible effect of small amounts of oxidative stress is under laboratory research. Mitochondria are sometimes described as "cellular power plants" because they generate most of the **cell**'s supply of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), a source of chemical energy. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been discarded as unwanted byproducts of oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria by the pro...
505. ...ctronics as tunable capacitors (varactors). In memory applications, the stored value of a ferroelectric capacitor is read by applying an electric field. The amount of charge needed to flip the memory **cell** to the opposite state is measured and the previous state of the cell is revealed. This means that the read operation destroys the memory cell state, and has to be followed by a corresponding write op...
506. ...he stored value of a ferroelectric capacitor is read by applying an electric field. The amount of charge needed to flip the memory cell to the opposite state is measured and the previous state of the **cell** is revealed. This means that the read operation destroys the memory cell state, and has to be followed by a corresponding write operation, in order to write the bit back. This makes it similar to (no...
507. ...ric field. The amount of charge needed to flip the memory cell to the opposite state is measured and the previous state of the cell is revealed. This means that the read operation destroys the memory **cell** state, and has to be followed by a corresponding write operation, in order to write the bit back. This makes it similar to (now obsolete) ferrite core memory. The requirement of a write cycle for eac...
508. ...uin notation) or C (Schoenflies notation), and the space group is P6mc or C. The lattice constants are "a" = 3.25 Å and "c" = 5.2 Å; their ratio "c/a" ~ 1.60 is close to the ideal value for hexagonal **cell** "c/a" = 1.633. As in most group II-VI materials, the bonding in ZnO is largely ionic (ZnO) with the corresponding radii of 0.074 nm for Zn and 0.140 nm for O. This property accounts for the preferent...
509. ...ch as silver. The mechanism of ZnO's antibacterial effect has been variously described as the generation of reactive oxygen species, the release of Zn ions, and a general disturbance of the bacterial **cell** membrane by nanoparticles. Zinc oxide is used in sunscreen to absorb ultraviolet light. It is the broadest spectrum UVA and UVB absorber that is approved for use as a sunscreen by the U.S. Food and D...
510. ...exist to describe these, both using classical and quantum electrodynamics. One of the methods is to use the concept of dressed particle. Hyperpolarization (biology) Hyperpolarization is a change in a **cell**'s membrane potential that makes it more negative. It is the opposite of a depolarization. It inhibits action potentials by increasing the stimulus required to move the membrane potential to the actio...
511. ...tion) through K channels, or influx of Cl (an anion) through Cl channels. On the other hand, influx of cations, e.g. Na through Na channels or Ca through Ca channels, inhibits hyperpolarization. If a **cell** has Na or Ca currents at rest, then inhibition of those currents will also result in a hyperpolarization. This voltage-gated ion channel response is how the hyperpolarization state is achieved. In ne...
512. ...Ca currents at rest, then inhibition of those currents will also result in a hyperpolarization. This voltage-gated ion channel response is how the hyperpolarization state is achieved. In neurons, the **cell** enters a state of hyperpolarization immediately following the generation of an action potential. While hyperpolarized, the neuron is in a refractory period that lasts roughly 2 milliseconds (Citation...
513. ...ting, or it can be closed without being able to be reopened right away, known as channel inactivation. At resting potential, both the voltage gated sodium and potassium channels are closed but as the **cell** membrane becomes depolarized the voltage gated sodium channels begin to open up and the neuron begins to depolarize, creating a current feedback loop known as the Hodgkin cycle. However, potassium io...
514. ...the voltage gated sodium channels begin to open up and the neuron begins to depolarize, creating a current feedback loop known as the Hodgkin cycle. However, potassium ions naturally move out of the **cell** and if the original depolarization event was not significant enough then the neuron does not generate an action potential. If all the sodium channels are open, however, then the neuron becomes ten ti...
515. ...hen the neuron does not generate an action potential. If all the sodium channels are open, however, then the neuron becomes ten times more permeable to sodium than potassium, quickly depolarizing the **cell** to a peak of +40 mV. At this level the sodium channels begin to inactivate and voltage gated potassium channels begin to open. This combination of closed sodium channels and open potassium channels l...
516. ...nels begin to open. This combination of closed sodium channels and open potassium channels leads to the neuron re-polarizing and becoming negative again. The neuron continues to re-polarize until the **cell** reaches ~ –75 mV, which is the equilibrium potential of potassium ions. This is the point at which the neuron is hyperpolarized, between –70 mV and –75 mV. After hyperpolarization the potassium chann...
517. ...iological structure or functionality. Genetic ablation is another term for gene silencing, in which gene expression is abolished through the alteration or deletion of genetic sequence information. In **cell** ablation, individual cells in a population or culture are destroyed or removed. Both can be used as experimental tools, as in loss-of-function experiments. In medicine, ablation is the removal of a p...
518. ...be used as a damping device like a spring. This idea has proposed for isolating vibrations for parts in satellites. Depolarization In biology, depolarization or hypopolarization is a change within a **cell**, during which the cell undergoes a shift in electric charge distribution, resulting in less negative charge inside the cell compared to the outside. Depolarization is essential to the function of man...
519. ...evice like a spring. This idea has proposed for isolating vibrations for parts in satellites. Depolarization In biology, depolarization or hypopolarization is a change within a cell, during which the **cell** undergoes a shift in electric charge distribution, resulting in less negative charge inside the cell compared to the outside. Depolarization is essential to the function of many cells, communication...
520. ...ization In biology, depolarization or hypopolarization is a change within a cell, during which the cell undergoes a shift in electric charge distribution, resulting in less negative charge inside the **cell** compared to the outside. Depolarization is essential to the function of many cells, communication between cells, and the overall physiology of an organism. Most cells in higher organisms maintain an...
521. ...ction of many cells, communication between cells, and the overall physiology of an organism. Most cells in higher organisms maintain an internal environment that is negatively charged relative to the **cell**'s exterior. This difference in charge is called the cell's membrane potential. In the process of depolarization, the negative internal charge of the cell temporarily becomes more positive (less negat...
522. ...overall physiology of an organism. Most cells in higher organisms maintain an internal environment that is negatively charged relative to the cell's exterior. This difference in charge is called the **cell**'s membrane potential. In the process of depolarization, the negative internal charge of the cell temporarily becomes more positive (less negative). This shift from a negative to a more positive membr...
523. ...nt that is negatively charged relative to the cell's exterior. This difference in charge is called the cell's membrane potential. In the process of depolarization, the negative internal charge of the **cell** temporarily becomes more positive (less negative). This shift from a negative to a more positive membrane potential occurs during several processes, including an action potential. During an action po...
524. ...a more positive membrane potential occurs during several processes, including an action potential. During an action potential, the depolarization is so large that the potential difference across the **cell** membrane briefly reverses polarity, with the inside of the cell becoming positively charged. The change in charge typically occurs due to an influx of sodium ions into a cell, although it can be medi...
525. ...ses, including an action potential. During an action potential, the depolarization is so large that the potential difference across the cell membrane briefly reverses polarity, with the inside of the **cell** becoming positively charged. The change in charge typically occurs due to an influx of sodium ions into a cell, although it can be mediated by an influx of any kind of cation or efflux of any kind of...
526. ...al difference across the cell membrane briefly reverses polarity, with the inside of the cell becoming positively charged. The change in charge typically occurs due to an influx of sodium ions into a **cell**, although it can be mediated by an influx of any kind of cation or efflux of any kind of anion. The opposite of a depolarization is called a hyperpolarization. Usage of the term "depolarization" in b...
527. ...zation is sometimes referred to as "hypopolarization" (as opposed to hyperpolarization). The process of depolarization is entirely dependent upon the intrinsic electrical nature of most cells. When a **cell** is at rest, the cell maintains what is known as a resting potential. The resting potential generated by nearly all cells results in the interior of the cell having a negative charge compared to the e...
528. ...eferred to as "hypopolarization" (as opposed to hyperpolarization). The process of depolarization is entirely dependent upon the intrinsic electrical nature of most cells. When a cell is at rest, the **cell** maintains what is known as a resting potential. The resting potential generated by nearly all cells results in the interior of the cell having a negative charge compared to the exterior of the cell....
529. ...ic electrical nature of most cells. When a cell is at rest, the cell maintains what is known as a resting potential. The resting potential generated by nearly all cells results in the interior of the **cell** having a negative charge compared to the exterior of the cell. To maintain this electrical imbalance, ions are transported across the cell's plasma membrane. The transport of the ions across the plas...
530. ...e cell maintains what is known as a resting potential. The resting potential generated by nearly all cells results in the interior of the cell having a negative charge compared to the exterior of the **cell**. To maintain this electrical imbalance, ions are transported across the cell's plasma membrane. The transport of the ions across the plasma membrane is accomplished through several different types of...
531. ...generated by nearly all cells results in the interior of the cell having a negative charge compared to the exterior of the cell. To maintain this electrical imbalance, ions are transported across the **cell**'s plasma membrane. The transport of the ions across the plasma membrane is accomplished through several different types of transmembrane proteins embedded in the cell's plasma membrane that function...
532. ...ions are transported across the cell's plasma membrane. The transport of the ions across the plasma membrane is accomplished through several different types of transmembrane proteins embedded in the **cell**'s plasma membrane that function as pathways for ions both into and out of the cell, such as ion channels, sodium potassium pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels. The resting potential must be establi...
533. ...across the plasma membrane is accomplished through several different types of transmembrane proteins embedded in the cell's plasma membrane that function as pathways for ions both into and out of the **cell**, such as ion channels, sodium potassium pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels. The resting potential must be established within a cell before the cell can be depolarized. There are many mechanisms by...
534. ...rane that function as pathways for ions both into and out of the cell, such as ion channels, sodium potassium pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels. The resting potential must be established within a **cell** before the cell can be depolarized. There are many mechanisms by which a cell can establish a resting potential, however there is a typical pattern of generating this resting potential that many cell...
535. ...on as pathways for ions both into and out of the cell, such as ion channels, sodium potassium pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels. The resting potential must be established within a cell before the **cell** can be depolarized. There are many mechanisms by which a cell can establish a resting potential, however there is a typical pattern of generating this resting potential that many cells follow. The ge...
536. ...ion channels, sodium potassium pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels. The resting potential must be established within a cell before the cell can be depolarized. There are many mechanisms by which a **cell** can establish a resting potential, however there is a typical pattern of generating this resting potential that many cells follow. The generation of a negative resting potential within the cell invol...
537. ...ich a cell can establish a resting potential, however there is a typical pattern of generating this resting potential that many cells follow. The generation of a negative resting potential within the **cell** involves the utilization of ion channels, ion pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels by the cell. However, the process of generating the resting potential within the cell also creates an environment o...
538. ...his resting potential that many cells follow. The generation of a negative resting potential within the cell involves the utilization of ion channels, ion pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels by the **cell**. However, the process of generating the resting potential within the cell also creates an environment outside the cell that favors depolarization. The sodium potassium pump is largely responsible for...
539. ...resting potential within the cell involves the utilization of ion channels, ion pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels by the cell. However, the process of generating the resting potential within the **cell** also creates an environment outside the cell that favors depolarization. The sodium potassium pump is largely responsible for the optimization of conditions on both the interior and the exterior of t...
540. ...he utilization of ion channels, ion pumps, and voltage-gated ion channels by the cell. However, the process of generating the resting potential within the cell also creates an environment outside the **cell** that favors depolarization. The sodium potassium pump is largely responsible for the optimization of conditions on both the interior and the exterior of the cell for depolarization. By pumping three...
541. ...so creates an environment outside the cell that favors depolarization. The sodium potassium pump is largely responsible for the optimization of conditions on both the interior and the exterior of the **cell** for depolarization. By pumping three positively charged sodium ions (Na) out of the cell for every two positively charged potassium ions (K) pumped into the cell, not only is the resting potential of...
542. ...um pump is largely responsible for the optimization of conditions on both the interior and the exterior of the cell for depolarization. By pumping three positively charged sodium ions (Na) out of the **cell** for every two positively charged potassium ions (K) pumped into the cell, not only is the resting potential of the cell established, but an unfavorable concentration gradient is created by increasing...
543. ...the interior and the exterior of the cell for depolarization. By pumping three positively charged sodium ions (Na) out of the cell for every two positively charged potassium ions (K) pumped into the **cell**, not only is the resting potential of the cell established, but an unfavorable concentration gradient is created by increasing the concentration of sodium outside the cell and increasing the concentr...
544. ...depolarization. By pumping three positively charged sodium ions (Na) out of the cell for every two positively charged potassium ions (K) pumped into the cell, not only is the resting potential of the **cell** established, but an unfavorable concentration gradient is created by increasing the concentration of sodium outside the cell and increasing the concentration of potassium within the cell. While there...
545. ...um ions (K) pumped into the cell, not only is the resting potential of the cell established, but an unfavorable concentration gradient is created by increasing the concentration of sodium outside the **cell** and increasing the concentration of potassium within the cell. While there is an excessive amount of potassium in the cell and sodium outside the cell, the generated resting potential maintains the c...
546. ...ntial of the cell established, but an unfavorable concentration gradient is created by increasing the concentration of sodium outside the cell and increasing the concentration of potassium within the **cell**. While there is an excessive amount of potassium in the cell and sodium outside the cell, the generated resting potential maintains the closure of voltage-gated ion channels in the plasma membrane. T...
547. ...on gradient is created by increasing the concentration of sodium outside the cell and increasing the concentration of potassium within the cell. While there is an excessive amount of potassium in the **cell** and sodium outside the cell, the generated resting potential maintains the closure of voltage-gated ion channels in the plasma membrane. This not only prevents the diffusion of ions pumped across the...
548. ...creasing the concentration of sodium outside the cell and increasing the concentration of potassium within the cell. While there is an excessive amount of potassium in the cell and sodium outside the **cell**, the generated resting potential maintains the closure of voltage-gated ion channels in the plasma membrane. This not only prevents the diffusion of ions pumped across the membrane but also involves...
549. ...nally, despite the high concentration of positively-charged potassium ions, most cells contain internal components (of negative charge), which accumulate to establish a negative inner charge. After a **cell** has established a resting potential, that cell has the capacity to undergo depolarization. Depolarization is the process by which the membrane potential becomes less negative, facilitating the genera...
550. ...vely-charged potassium ions, most cells contain internal components (of negative charge), which accumulate to establish a negative inner charge. After a cell has established a resting potential, that **cell** has the capacity to undergo depolarization. Depolarization is the process by which the membrane potential becomes less negative, facilitating the generation of an action potential. For this rapid cha...
551. ...Depolarization is the process by which the membrane potential becomes less negative, facilitating the generation of an action potential. For this rapid change to take place within the interior of the **cell**, several events must occur along the plasma membrane of the cell. While the sodium–potassium pump continues to work, the voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels that had been closed while the cell...
552. ...omes less negative, facilitating the generation of an action potential. For this rapid change to take place within the interior of the cell, several events must occur along the plasma membrane of the **cell**. While the sodium–potassium pump continues to work, the voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels that had been closed while the cell was at resting potential are opened in response to an initial cha...
553. ...cell, several events must occur along the plasma membrane of the cell. While the sodium–potassium pump continues to work, the voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels that had been closed while the **cell** was at resting potential are opened in response to an initial change in voltage. As a change in the neuronal charge leads to the opening of voltage-gated sodium channels, this results in an influx of...
554. ...voltage. As a change in the neuronal charge leads to the opening of voltage-gated sodium channels, this results in an influx of sodium ions down their electrochemical gradient. Sodium ions enter the **cell**, and they contribute a positive charge to the cell interior, causing a change in the membrane potential from negative to positive. The initial sodium ion influx triggers the opening of additional sod...
555. ...to the opening of voltage-gated sodium channels, this results in an influx of sodium ions down their electrochemical gradient. Sodium ions enter the cell, and they contribute a positive charge to the **cell** interior, causing a change in the membrane potential from negative to positive. The initial sodium ion influx triggers the opening of additional sodium channels (positive-feedback loop), leading to f...
556. ...embrane potential from negative to positive. The initial sodium ion influx triggers the opening of additional sodium channels (positive-feedback loop), leading to further sodium ion transfer into the **cell** and sustaining the depolarization process until the positive equilibrium potential is reached. Sodium channels possess an inherent inactivation mechanism that prompts rapid reclosure, even as the mem...
557. ...larized. During this equilibrium, the sodium channels enter an inactivated state, temporarily halting the influx of sodium ions until the membrane potential becomes negatively charged again. Once the **cell**'s interior is sufficiently positively charged, depolarization concludes, and the channels close once more. After a cell has been depolarized, it undergoes one final change in internal charge. Followi...
558. ...um ions until the membrane potential becomes negatively charged again. Once the cell's interior is sufficiently positively charged, depolarization concludes, and the channels close once more. After a **cell** has been depolarized, it undergoes one final change in internal charge. Following depolarization, the voltage-gated sodium ion channels that had been open while the cell was undergoing depolarization...
559. ...nels close once more. After a cell has been depolarized, it undergoes one final change in internal charge. Following depolarization, the voltage-gated sodium ion channels that had been open while the **cell** was undergoing depolarization close again. The increased positive charge within the cell now causes the potassium channels to open. Potassium ions (K) begin to move down the electrochemical gradient...
560. ...internal charge. Following depolarization, the voltage-gated sodium ion channels that had been open while the cell was undergoing depolarization close again. The increased positive charge within the **cell** now causes the potassium channels to open. Potassium ions (K) begin to move down the electrochemical gradient (in favor of the concentration gradient and the newly established electrical gradient). A...
561. ...nnels to open. Potassium ions (K) begin to move down the electrochemical gradient (in favor of the concentration gradient and the newly established electrical gradient). As potassium moves out of the **cell** the potential within the cell decreases and approaches its resting potential once more. The sodium potassium pump works continuously throughout this process. The process of repolarization causes an o...
562. ...(K) begin to move down the electrochemical gradient (in favor of the concentration gradient and the newly established electrical gradient). As potassium moves out of the cell the potential within the **cell** decreases and approaches its resting potential once more. The sodium potassium pump works continuously throughout this process. The process of repolarization causes an overshoot in the potential of t...
563. ...creases and approaches its resting potential once more. The sodium potassium pump works continuously throughout this process. The process of repolarization causes an overshoot in the potential of the **cell**. Potassium ions continue to move out of the axon so much that the resting potential is exceeded and the new cell potential becomes more negative than the resting potential. The resting potential is u...
564. ...his process. The process of repolarization causes an overshoot in the potential of the cell. Potassium ions continue to move out of the axon so much that the resting potential is exceeded and the new **cell** potential becomes more negative than the resting potential. The resting potential is ultimately re-established by the closing of all voltage-gated ion channels and the activity of the sodium potassiu...
565. ...h leads to a neuron that is easier to depolarize than the same neuron in the resting state. Regardless of it being excitatory or inhibitory, the stimulus travels down the dendrites of a neuron to the **cell** body for integration. Once the stimuli have reached the cell body, the nerve must integrate the various stimuli before the nerve can respond. The stimuli that have traveled down the dendrites converg...
566. ...e neuron in the resting state. Regardless of it being excitatory or inhibitory, the stimulus travels down the dendrites of a neuron to the cell body for integration. Once the stimuli have reached the **cell** body, the nerve must integrate the various stimuli before the nerve can respond. The stimuli that have traveled down the dendrites converge at the axon hillock, where they are summed to determine the...
567. ...eir associated neurons. When rod cells are in the dark, they are depolarized. In the rod cells, this depolarization is maintained by ion channels that remain open due to the higher voltage of the rod **cell** in the depolarized state. The ion channels allow calcium and sodium to pass freely into the cell, maintaining the depolarized state. Rod cells in the depolarized state constantly release neurotransmi...
568. ...his depolarization is maintained by ion channels that remain open due to the higher voltage of the rod cell in the depolarized state. The ion channels allow calcium and sodium to pass freely into the **cell**, maintaining the depolarized state. Rod cells in the depolarized state constantly release neurotransmitters which in turn stimulate the nerves associated with rod cells. This cycle is broken when rod...
569. ...d state constantly release neurotransmitters which in turn stimulate the nerves associated with rod cells. This cycle is broken when rod cells are exposed to light; the absorption of light by the rod **cell** causes the channels that had facilitated the entry of sodium and calcium into the rod cell to close. When these channels close, the rod cells produce fewer neurotransmitters, which is perceived by th...
570. ...with rod cells. This cycle is broken when rod cells are exposed to light; the absorption of light by the rod cell causes the channels that had facilitated the entry of sodium and calcium into the rod **cell** to close. When these channels close, the rod cells produce fewer neurotransmitters, which is perceived by the brain as an increase in light. Therefore, in the case of rod cells and their associated n...
571. ...ty, and even help to regulate blood pressure within the cardiovascular system. Endothelial cells accomplish these feats by using depolarization to alter their structural strength. When an endothelial **cell** undergoes depolarization, the result is a marked decrease in the rigidity and structural strength of the cell by altering the network of fibers that provide these cells with their structural support....
572. ...ese feats by using depolarization to alter their structural strength. When an endothelial cell undergoes depolarization, the result is a marked decrease in the rigidity and structural strength of the **cell** by altering the network of fibers that provide these cells with their structural support. Depolarization in vascular endothelium is essential not only to the structural integrity of endothelial cells...
573. ...eakers, in 1979. The field grew rapidly in the early 1980s. Today, some 300 million sound-generating transducers per year are produced with ferrofluid inside, including speakers installed in laptops, **cell** phones, headphones and earbuds. Ferrofluids conjugated with antibodies or common capture agents such as Streptavidin (SA) or rat anti-mouse Ig (RAM) are used in immunomagnetic separation, a subset of...
574. ...phones, headphones and earbuds. Ferrofluids conjugated with antibodies or common capture agents such as Streptavidin (SA) or rat anti-mouse Ig (RAM) are used in immunomagnetic separation, a subset of **cell** sorting. These conjugated ferrofluids are used to bind to target cells, and then magnetically separate them from a cell mixture using a low-gradient magnetic separator. These ferrofluids have applica...
575. ...) or rat anti-mouse Ig (RAM) are used in immunomagnetic separation, a subset of cell sorting. These conjugated ferrofluids are used to bind to target cells, and then magnetically separate them from a **cell** mixture using a low-gradient magnetic separator. These ferrofluids have applications such as cell therapy, gene therapy, cellular manufacturing, among others. On the aesthetic side, ferrofluids can b...
576. ...e conjugated ferrofluids are used to bind to target cells, and then magnetically separate them from a cell mixture using a low-gradient magnetic separator. These ferrofluids have applications such as **cell** therapy, gene therapy, cellular manufacturing, among others. On the aesthetic side, ferrofluids can be displayed to visualize sound. For that purpose, the blob of ferrofluid is suspended in a clear l...
577. ...ere the stimulation occurred and each synapse will be either excitatory or inhibitory.  Graded potentials that make the membrane potential less negative or more positive, thus making the postsynaptic **cell** more likely to have an action potential, are called excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). Depolarizing local potentials sum together, and if the voltage reaches the threshold potential, an acti...
578. ...on potential, are called excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs). Depolarizing local potentials sum together, and if the voltage reaches the threshold potential, an action potential occurs in that **cell**. EPSPs are caused by the influx of Na or Ca from the extracellular space into the neuron or muscle cell. When the presynaptic neuron has an action potential, Ca enters the axon terminal via voltage-d...
579. ...ogether, and if the voltage reaches the threshold potential, an action potential occurs in that cell. EPSPs are caused by the influx of Na or Ca from the extracellular space into the neuron or muscle **cell**. When the presynaptic neuron has an action potential, Ca enters the axon terminal via voltage-dependent calcium channels and causes exocytosis of synaptic vesicles, causing neurotransmitter to be rel...
580. ...zes to its resting membrane potential. This shows the temporary and reversible nature of graded potentials. Graded potentials that make the membrane potential more negative, and make the postsynaptic **cell** less likely to have an action potential, are called inhibitory post synaptic potentials (IPSPs). Hyperpolarization of membranes is caused by influx of Cl or efflux of K. As with EPSPs, the amplitude...
581. ...sting membrane potential is usually around –70 mV. The typical neuron has a threshold potential ranging from –40 mV to –55 mV. Temporal summation occurs when graded potentials within the postsynaptic **cell** occur so rapidly that they build on each other before the previous ones fade. Spatial summation occurs when postsynaptic potentials from adjacent synapses on the cell occur simultaneously and add tog...
582. ...tentials within the postsynaptic cell occur so rapidly that they build on each other before the previous ones fade. Spatial summation occurs when postsynaptic potentials from adjacent synapses on the **cell** occur simultaneously and add together. An action potential occurs when the summated EPSPs, minus the summated IPSPs, in an area of membrane reach the cell's threshold potential. Receptor potential A...
583. ...tic potentials from adjacent synapses on the cell occur simultaneously and add together. An action potential occurs when the summated EPSPs, minus the summated IPSPs, in an area of membrane reach the **cell**'s threshold potential. Receptor potential A receptor potential, also known as a generator potential, a type of graded potential, is the transmembrane potential difference produced by activation of a...
584. ...potential of the sensory receptor towards the threshold for triggering an action potential. Receptor potential can work to trigger an action potential either within the same neuron or on an adjacent **cell**. Within the same neuron, a receptor potential can cause local current to flow to a region capable of generating an action potential by opening voltage-gated ion channels. A receptor potential can als...
585. ...cause local current to flow to a region capable of generating an action potential by opening voltage-gated ion channels. A receptor potential can also cause the release of neurotransmitters from one **cell** that will act on another cell, generating an action potential in the second cell. The magnitude of the receptor potential determines the frequency with which action potentials are generated and is co...
586. ...o a region capable of generating an action potential by opening voltage-gated ion channels. A receptor potential can also cause the release of neurotransmitters from one cell that will act on another **cell**, generating an action potential in the second cell. The magnitude of the receptor potential determines the frequency with which action potentials are generated and is controlled by adaptation, stimul...
587. ...l by opening voltage-gated ion channels. A receptor potential can also cause the release of neurotransmitters from one cell that will act on another cell, generating an action potential in the second **cell**. The magnitude of the receptor potential determines the frequency with which action potentials are generated and is controlled by adaptation, stimulus strength, and temporal summation of successive r...
588. ...trode potential formula_1, or formula_2, is a measure of the reducing power of any element or compound. The IUPAC "Gold Book" defines it as; ""the value of the standard emf (electromotive force) of a **cell** in which molecular hydrogen under standard pressure is oxidized to solvated protons at the left-hand electrode"". The basis for an electrochemical cell, such as the galvanic cell, is always a redox r...
589. ...of the standard emf (electromotive force) of a cell in which molecular hydrogen under standard pressure is oxidized to solvated protons at the left-hand electrode"". The basis for an electrochemical **cell**, such as the galvanic cell, is always a redox reaction which can be broken down into two half-reactions: oxidation at anode (loss of electron) and reduction at cathode (gain of electron). Electricity...
590. ...romotive force) of a cell in which molecular hydrogen under standard pressure is oxidized to solvated protons at the left-hand electrode"". The basis for an electrochemical cell, such as the galvanic **cell**, is always a redox reaction which can be broken down into two half-reactions: oxidation at anode (loss of electron) and reduction at cathode (gain of electron). Electricity is produced due to the dif...
591. ...Electricity is produced due to the difference of electric potential between the individual potentials of the two metal electrodes with respect to the electrolyte.  Although the overall potential of a **cell** can be measured, there is no simple way to accurately measure the electrode/electrolyte potentials in isolation. The electric potential also varies with temperature, concentration and pressure. Since...
592. ...on potential in a redox reaction, it is sufficient to calculate either one of the potentials. Therefore, standard electrode potential is commonly written as standard reduction potential. The galvanic **cell** potential results from the voltage difference of a "pair" of electrodes. It is not possible to measure an absolute value for each electrode separately. However, the potential of a reference electrode...
593. ...tial. Since the electrode potentials are conventionally defined as reduction potentials, the sign of the potential for the metal electrode being oxidized must be reversed when calculating the overall **cell** potential. The electrode potentials are independent of the number of electrons transferred —they are expressed in volts, which measure energy per electron transferred—and so the two electrode potenti...
594. ...dent of the number of electrons transferred —they are expressed in volts, which measure energy per electron transferred—and so the two electrode potentials can be simply combined to give the overall "**cell**" potential even if different numbers of electrons are involved in the two electrode reactions. For practical measurements, the electrode in question is connected to the positive terminal of the elect...
595. ...−0.76 V (e.g., H (0 V), Cu (0.34 V), F (2.87 V)) and can be reduced by any electrode with standard reduction potential less than −0.76 V (e.g. H (−2.23 V), Na (−2.71 V), Li (−3.05 V)). In a galvanic **cell**, where a spontaneous redox reaction drives the cell to produce an electric potential, Gibbs free energy formula_3 must be negative, in accordance with the following equation: where is number of moles...
596. ...d can be reduced by any electrode with standard reduction potential less than −0.76 V (e.g. H (−2.23 V), Na (−2.71 V), Li (−3.05 V)). In a galvanic cell, where a spontaneous redox reaction drives the **cell** to produce an electric potential, Gibbs free energy formula_3 must be negative, in accordance with the following equation: where is number of moles of electrons per mole of products and is the Farada...
597. ...shown to power battery-free temperature and camera sensors at ranges of up to 20 feet. It was also shown that Wi-Fi can be used to wirelessly trickle-charge nickel–metal hydride and lithium-ion coin-**cell** batteries at distances of up to 28 feet. In 2017, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) certified the first mid-field radio frequency (RF) transmitter of wireless power. In 2021 the FCC granted...
598. ...n describing passband telecommunication systems, where filters are not necessarily symmetric but are treated on a linear frequency scale for applications such as frequency-division multiplexing. Half-**cell** In electrochemistry, a half-cell is a structure that contains a conductive electrode and a surrounding conductive electrolyte separated by a naturally occurring Helmholtz double layer. Chemical react...
599. ...cation systems, where filters are not necessarily symmetric but are treated on a linear frequency scale for applications such as frequency-division multiplexing. Half-cell In electrochemistry, a half-**cell** is a structure that contains a conductive electrode and a surrounding conductive electrolyte separated by a naturally occurring Helmholtz double layer. Chemical reactions within this layer momentaril...
600. ...electric field within the double layer, and the potential rises in value until the field halts the net charge-pumping reactions. This self-limiting action occurs almost instantly in an isolated half-**cell**; in applications two dissimilar half-cells are appropriately connected to constitute a Galvanic cell. A standard half-cell consists of a metal electrode in an aqueous solution where the concentration...
601. ...et charge-pumping reactions. This self-limiting action occurs almost instantly in an isolated half-cell; in applications two dissimilar half-cells are appropriately connected to constitute a Galvanic **cell**. A standard half-cell consists of a metal electrode in an aqueous solution where the concentration of the metal ions is 1 molar (1 mol/L) at 298 kelvins (25 °C). In the case of the standard hydrogen...
602. ...tions. This self-limiting action occurs almost instantly in an isolated half-cell; in applications two dissimilar half-cells are appropriately connected to constitute a Galvanic cell. A standard half-**cell** consists of a metal electrode in an aqueous solution where the concentration of the metal ions is 1 molar (1 mol/L) at 298 kelvins (25 °C). In the case of the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE), a pla...
603. ...electrochemical series, which consists of standard electrode potentials and is closely related to the reactivity series, was generated by measuring the difference in potential between the metal half-**cell** in a circuit with a standard hydrogen half-cell, connected by a salt bridge. The standard hydrogen half-cell: The half-cells of a Daniell cell: Reversal potential In a biological membrane, the revers...
604. ...ard electrode potentials and is closely related to the reactivity series, was generated by measuring the difference in potential between the metal half-cell in a circuit with a standard hydrogen half-**cell**, connected by a salt bridge. The standard hydrogen half-cell: The half-cells of a Daniell cell: Reversal potential In a biological membrane, the reversal potential is the membrane potential at which...
605. ...vity series, was generated by measuring the difference in potential between the metal half-cell in a circuit with a standard hydrogen half-cell, connected by a salt bridge. The standard hydrogen half-**cell**: The half-cells of a Daniell cell: Reversal potential In a biological membrane, the reversal potential is the membrane potential at which the direction of ionic current reverses. At the reversal pote...
606. ...uring the difference in potential between the metal half-cell in a circuit with a standard hydrogen half-cell, connected by a salt bridge. The standard hydrogen half-cell: The half-cells of a Daniell **cell**: Reversal potential In a biological membrane, the reversal potential is the membrane potential at which the direction of ionic current reverses. At the reversal potential, there is no net flow of ion...
607. ...an example a positively charged ion, such as K, and a negatively charged membrane, as it is commonly the case in most organisms. The membrane voltage opposes the flow of the potassium ions out of the **cell** and the ions can leave the interior of the cell only if they have sufficient thermal energy to overcome the energy barrier produced by the negative membrane voltage. However, this biasing effect can...
608. ...and a negatively charged membrane, as it is commonly the case in most organisms. The membrane voltage opposes the flow of the potassium ions out of the cell and the ions can leave the interior of the **cell** only if they have sufficient thermal energy to overcome the energy barrier produced by the negative membrane voltage. However, this biasing effect can be overcome by an opposing concentration gradien...
609. ...negative membrane voltage. However, this biasing effect can be overcome by an opposing concentration gradient if the interior concentration is high enough which favours the potassium ions leaving the **cell**.  An important concept related to the equilibrium potential is the driving force"." Driving force is simply defined as the difference between the actual membrane potential and an ion's equilibrium po...
610. ...zero volts at any temperature. Potentials of all other electrodes are compared with that of the standard hydrogen electrode at the same temperature. The hydrogen electrode is based on the redox half **cell** corresponding to the reduction of two hydrated protons, into one gaseous hydrogen molecule,  General equation for a reduction reaction:  The reaction quotient () of the half-reaction is the ratio bet...
611. ...with other data directly taken from tables referring to SHE (pH = 0). The formula_13 and pH of a solution are related by the Nernst equation as commonly represented by a Pourbaix diagram . For a half **cell** equation, conventionally written as a reduction reaction ("i.e.", electrons accepted by an oxidant on the left side): The half-cell standard reduction potential formula_10 is given by where formula_1...
612. ...equation as commonly represented by a Pourbaix diagram . For a half cell equation, conventionally written as a reduction reaction ("i.e.", electrons accepted by an oxidant on the left side): The half-**cell** standard reduction potential formula_10 is given by where formula_17 is the standard Gibbs free energy change, is the number of electrons involved, and is Faraday's constant. The Nernst equation rela...
613. ...d species is 1 mol/L, T = 298.15 K = 25 °C = 77 °F, = 1 bar) it becomes "de facto" a standard potential. According to Brown and Swift (1949), "A formal potential is defined as the potential of a half-**cell**, measured against the standard hydrogen electrode, when the total concentration of each oxidation state is one formal". The activity coefficients formula_46 and formula_47 are included in the formal...
614. ...erned by analyte activity in the internal solution whereas E is governed by the activity of the analyte on each side of the selective membrane. Furthermore, the E or external reference portion of the **cell** is dependent on the half-reaction of the electrode and the liquid junction potential E. The most common types of reference electrodes used in analytical chemistry include the standard hydrogen electr...
615. ...an acidic solution with an H2 (g) outlet pumping gaseous hydrogen into the solution. On the surface of the Pt electrode, a half-reaction occurs: <chem>2H^+{}_{(aq)} + 2e^- <=> H_2{}_{(g)}</chem> The **cell** notation is as follows with a single line denoting a phase boundary and a double line representing a salt bridge: <chem>Pt | H_2 (1 atm) | H^+(1M) ||</chem> In fieldwork, the SHE is inconvenient, mak...
616. ...lectrode. A ceramic frit, acting as the salt bridge, is located on the bottom of the reference electrode. The overall half-reaction is: <chem>Hg2Cl2 + 2e^- <-> 2Hg + 2Cl^-</chem> The notation for the **cell** is: <chem>Hg | Hg2Cl2 | KCl(xM) ||</chem> Given its toxicity, the silver chloride electrode is most frequently used even over the SCE. Within the reference electrode, an Ag/AgCl wire is immersed in a...
617. ...rsed in a KCl-filling solution. A frit at the bottom of the reference electrode plays the role of a salt bridge. The overall half-reaction is: <chem>AgCl + e^-<=> Ag +Cl^-</chem> The notation for the **cell** is: <chem>Ag | AgCl | KCl(xM)||</chem> There are four main types of ion-selective membrane used in ion-selective electrodes (ISEs): glass, solid state, liquid based, and compound electrode. Glass mem...
618. ...ulated in a molecular cavity whose size is matched to the size of the ion. For example, an electrode based on Valinomycin may be used for the determination of potassium ion concentration. Particle-in-**cell** In plasma physics, the particle-in-cell (PIC) method refers to a technique used to solve a certain class of partial differential equations. In this method, individual particles (or fluid elements) in...
619. ...is matched to the size of the ion. For example, an electrode based on Valinomycin may be used for the determination of potassium ion concentration. Particle-in-cell In plasma physics, the particle-in-**cell** (PIC) method refers to a technique used to solve a certain class of partial differential equations. In this method, individual particles (or fluid elements) in a Lagrangian frame are tracked in conti...
620. .... Again, a trial solution is found by inserting the basis functions into the eigenvalue equation and then optimized to determine the best values of the initial trial parameters. The name "particle-in-**cell**" originates in the way that plasma macro-quantities (number density, current density, etc.) are assigned to simulation particles (i.e., the "particle weighting"). Particles can be situated anywhere o...
621. ...the shape function where formula_15 is the coordinate of the particle and formula_16 the observation point. Perhaps the easiest and most used choice for the shape function is the so-called "cloud-in-**cell**" (CIC) scheme, which is a first order (linear) weighting scheme. Whatever the scheme is, the shape function has to satisfy the following conditions: space isotropy, charge conservation, and increasin...
622. ...ing the appropriate space symmetry (i.e. no self-force and fulfilling the action-reaction law) of the field solver at the same time As the field solver is required to be free of self-forces, inside a **cell** the field generated by a particle must decrease with decreasing distance from the particle, and hence inter-particle forces inside the cells are underestimated. This can be balanced with the aid of C...
623. ...d be computationally too expensive, so several Monte Carlo methods have been developed instead. A widely used method is the "binary collision model", in which particles are grouped according to their **cell**, then these particles are paired randomly, and finally the pairs are collided. In a real plasma, many other reactions may play a role, ranging from elastic collisions, such as collisions between char...
624. ...Pacemaker potential In the pacemaking cells of the heart (e.g., the sinoatrial node), the pacemaker potential (also called the pacemaker current) is the slow, positive increase in voltage across the **cell**'s membrane (the membrane potential) that occurs between the end of one action potential and the beginning of the next action potential. This increase in membrane potential is what causes the cell mem...
625. ...the cell's membrane (the membrane potential) that occurs between the end of one action potential and the beginning of the next action potential. This increase in membrane potential is what causes the **cell** membrane, which typically maintains a resting membrane potential around -65 mV, to reach the threshold potential and consequently fire the next action potential; thus, the pacemaker potential is what...
626. ...omaticity) of pacemaker cells, and the rate of change (i.e., the slope) of the pacemaker potential is what determines the timing of the next action potential and thus the intrinsic firing rate of the **cell**. In a healthy sinoatrial node (SAN, a complex tissue within the right atrium containing pacemaker cells that normally determine the intrinsic firing rate for the entire heart), the pacemaker potentia...
627. ...cause the pacemaker potential represents the non-contracting time between heart beats (diastole), it is also called the diastolic depolarization. The amount of net inward current required to move the **cell** membrane potential during the pacemaker phase is extremely small, in the order of few pAs, but this net flux arises from time to time changing contribution of several currents that flow with differen...
628. ...ever, they will see the atrial foci. The heart will now beat at the intrinsic rate of the AV node. The firing of the pacemaker cells is induced electrically by reaching the threshold potential of the **cell** membrane. The threshold potential is the potential an excitable cell membrane, such as a myocyte, must reach in order to induce an action potential. This depolarization is caused by very small net in...
629. ...ntrinsic rate of the AV node. The firing of the pacemaker cells is induced electrically by reaching the threshold potential of the cell membrane. The threshold potential is the potential an excitable **cell** membrane, such as a myocyte, must reach in order to induce an action potential. This depolarization is caused by very small net inward currents of calcium ions across the cell membrane, which gives r...
630. ...potential an excitable cell membrane, such as a myocyte, must reach in order to induce an action potential. This depolarization is caused by very small net inward currents of calcium ions across the **cell** membrane, which gives rise to the action potential. Bio-pacemakers are the outcome of a rapidly emerging field of research into a replacement for the electronic pacemaker. The bio-pacemaker turns qui...
631. ...eral factors. A neuron's resting membrane potential (–70 mV) can be altered to either increase or decrease likelihood of reaching threshold via sodium and potassium ions. An influx of sodium into the **cell** through open, voltage-gated sodium channels can depolarize the membrane past threshold and thus excite it while an efflux of potassium or influx of chloride can hyperpolarize the cell and thus inhibi...
632. ...sodium into the cell through open, voltage-gated sodium channels can depolarize the membrane past threshold and thus excite it while an efflux of potassium or influx of chloride can hyperpolarize the **cell** and thus inhibit threshold from being reached. Initial experiments revolved around the concept that any electrical change that is brought about in neurons must occur through the action of ions. The G...
633. ...e threshold value. The larger the stimulus, the greater the depolarization, or attempt to reach threshold. The task of depolarization requires several key steps that rely on anatomical factors of the **cell**. The ion conductances involved depend on the membrane potential and also the time after the membrane potential changes. The phospholipid bilayer of the cell membrane is, in itself, highly impermeable...
634. ...eps that rely on anatomical factors of the cell. The ion conductances involved depend on the membrane potential and also the time after the membrane potential changes. The phospholipid bilayer of the **cell** membrane is, in itself, highly impermeable to ions. The complete structure of the cell membrane includes many proteins that are embedded in or completely cross the lipid bilayer. Some of those protei...
635. ...n the membrane potential and also the time after the membrane potential changes. The phospholipid bilayer of the cell membrane is, in itself, highly impermeable to ions. The complete structure of the **cell** membrane includes many proteins that are embedded in or completely cross the lipid bilayer. Some of those proteins allow for the highly specific passage of ions, ion channels. Leak potassium channels...
636. ...age of ions, ion channels. Leak potassium channels allow potassium to flow through the membrane in response to the disparity in concentrations of potassium inside (high concentration) and outside the **cell** (low). The loss of positive(+) charges of the potassium(K+) ions from the inside of the cell results in a negative potential there compared to the extracellular surface of the membrane. A much smalle...
637. ...ne in response to the disparity in concentrations of potassium inside (high concentration) and outside the cell (low). The loss of positive(+) charges of the potassium(K+) ions from the inside of the **cell** results in a negative potential there compared to the extracellular surface of the membrane. A much smaller "leak" of sodium(Na+) into the cell results in the actual resting potential, about –70 mV,...
638. ...harges of the potassium(K+) ions from the inside of the cell results in a negative potential there compared to the extracellular surface of the membrane. A much smaller "leak" of sodium(Na+) into the **cell** results in the actual resting potential, about –70 mV, being less negative than the calculated potential for K+ alone, the equilibrium potential, about –90 mV. The sodium-potassium ATPase is an activ...
639. ...an the calculated potential for K+ alone, the equilibrium potential, about –90 mV. The sodium-potassium ATPase is an active transporter within the membrane that pumps potassium (2 ions) back into the **cell** and sodium (3 ions) out of the cell, maintaining the concentrations of both ions as well as preserving the voltage polarization. However, once a stimulus activates the voltage-gated sodium channels t...
640. ...lone, the equilibrium potential, about –90 mV. The sodium-potassium ATPase is an active transporter within the membrane that pumps potassium (2 ions) back into the cell and sodium (3 ions) out of the **cell**, maintaining the concentrations of both ions as well as preserving the voltage polarization. However, once a stimulus activates the voltage-gated sodium channels to open, positive sodium ions flood i...
641. ...ining the concentrations of both ions as well as preserving the voltage polarization. However, once a stimulus activates the voltage-gated sodium channels to open, positive sodium ions flood into the **cell** and the voltage increases. This process can also be initiated by ligand or neurotransmitter binding to a ligand-gated channel. More sodium is outside the cell relative to the inside, and the positive...
642. ...pen, positive sodium ions flood into the cell and the voltage increases. This process can also be initiated by ligand or neurotransmitter binding to a ligand-gated channel. More sodium is outside the **cell** relative to the inside, and the positive charge within the cell propels the outflow of potassium ions through delayed-rectifier voltage-gated potassium channels. Since the potassium channels within t...
643. ...creases. This process can also be initiated by ligand or neurotransmitter binding to a ligand-gated channel. More sodium is outside the cell relative to the inside, and the positive charge within the **cell** propels the outflow of potassium ions through delayed-rectifier voltage-gated potassium channels. Since the potassium channels within the cell membrane are delayed, any further entrance of sodium act...
644. ...lative to the inside, and the positive charge within the cell propels the outflow of potassium ions through delayed-rectifier voltage-gated potassium channels. Since the potassium channels within the **cell** membrane are delayed, any further entrance of sodium activates more and more voltage-gated sodium channels. Depolarization above threshold results in an increase in the conductance of Na sufficient f...
645. ...l oscillations are observed in some type of neurons. If successful, the sudden influx of positive charge depolarizes the membrane, and potassium is delayed in re-establishing, or hyperpolarizing, the **cell**. Sodium influx depolarizes the cell in attempt to establish its own equilibrium potential (about +52 mV) to make the inside of the cell more positive relative to the outside. The value of threshold c...
646. ...type of neurons. If successful, the sudden influx of positive charge depolarizes the membrane, and potassium is delayed in re-establishing, or hyperpolarizing, the cell. Sodium influx depolarizes the **cell** in attempt to establish its own equilibrium potential (about +52 mV) to make the inside of the cell more positive relative to the outside. The value of threshold can vary according to numerous factor...
647. ...otassium is delayed in re-establishing, or hyperpolarizing, the cell. Sodium influx depolarizes the cell in attempt to establish its own equilibrium potential (about +52 mV) to make the inside of the **cell** more positive relative to the outside. The value of threshold can vary according to numerous factors. Changes in the ion conductances of sodium or potassium can lead to either a raised or lowered val...
648. ...n the axon or dendrite, there are small depolarizing or hyperpolarizing signals resulting from a prior stimulus. The passive spread of these signals depend on the passive electrical properties of the **cell**. The signals can only continue along the neuron to cause an action potential further down if they are strong enough to make it past the cell's membrane resistance and capacitance. For example, a neur...
649. ...signals depend on the passive electrical properties of the cell. The signals can only continue along the neuron to cause an action potential further down if they are strong enough to make it past the **cell**'s membrane resistance and capacitance. For example, a neuron with a large diameter has more ionic channels in its membrane than a smaller cell, resulting in a lower resistance to the flow of ionic cu...
650. ...rther down if they are strong enough to make it past the cell's membrane resistance and capacitance. For example, a neuron with a large diameter has more ionic channels in its membrane than a smaller **cell**, resulting in a lower resistance to the flow of ionic current. The current spreads quicker in a cell with less resistance, and is more likely to reach the threshold at other portions of the neuron. T...
651. ...For example, a neuron with a large diameter has more ionic channels in its membrane than a smaller cell, resulting in a lower resistance to the flow of ionic current. The current spreads quicker in a **cell** with less resistance, and is more likely to reach the threshold at other portions of the neuron. The threshold potential has also been shown experimentally to adapt to slow changes in input character...
652. ...he quickly activated sodium channels. They rectify, or repair, the balance of ions across the membrane by opening and letting potassium flow down its concentration gradient from inside to outside the **cell**. They close slowly as well, resulting in an outward flow of positive charge that exceeds the balance necessary. It results in excess negativity in the cell, requiring an extremely large stimulus and...
653. ...tration gradient from inside to outside the cell. They close slowly as well, resulting in an outward flow of positive charge that exceeds the balance necessary. It results in excess negativity in the **cell**, requiring an extremely large stimulus and resulting depolarization to cause a response. Threshold tracking techniques test nerve excitability, and depend on the properties of axonal membranes and si...
654. ...ld tracking technique is "threshold electrotonus", which uses the threshold tracking set-up to produce long-lasting subthreshold depolarizing or hyperpolarizing currents within a membrane. Changes in **cell** excitability can be observed and recorded by creating these long-lasting currents. Threshold decrease is evident during extensive depolarization, and threshold increase is evident with extensive hype...
655. ...ed by a combination of hydrodynamic force and magnetic force. By eliminating physical contact surfaces, magnetic bearings make it easier to reduce areas of high shear stress (which leads to red blood **cell** damage) and flow stagnation (which leads to clotting) in these blood pumps. Berlin Heart INCOR was the first commercial ventricular assist device without mechanical or fluid dynamic stabilisation. Ca...
656. ...ng method. Microbial inactivation in ohmic heating is achieved by both thermal and non-thermal cellular damage from the electrical field. This method destroys microorganisms due to electroporation of **cell** membranes, physical membrane rupture, and cell lysis. In electroporation, excessive leakage of ions and intramolecular components results in cell death. In membrane rupture, cells swell due to an inc...
657. ...ing is achieved by both thermal and non-thermal cellular damage from the electrical field. This method destroys microorganisms due to electroporation of cell membranes, physical membrane rupture, and **cell** lysis. In electroporation, excessive leakage of ions and intramolecular components results in cell death. In membrane rupture, cells swell due to an increase in moisture diffusion across the cell mem...
658. ...hod destroys microorganisms due to electroporation of cell membranes, physical membrane rupture, and cell lysis. In electroporation, excessive leakage of ions and intramolecular components results in **cell** death. In membrane rupture, cells swell due to an increase in moisture diffusion across the cell membrane. Pronounced disruption and decomposition of cell walls and cytoplasmic membranes causes cells...
659. ...and cell lysis. In electroporation, excessive leakage of ions and intramolecular components results in cell death. In membrane rupture, cells swell due to an increase in moisture diffusion across the **cell** membrane. Pronounced disruption and decomposition of cell walls and cytoplasmic membranes causes cells to lyse. Decreased processing times in ohmic heating maintains nutritional and sensory propertie...
660. ...ons and intramolecular components results in cell death. In membrane rupture, cells swell due to an increase in moisture diffusion across the cell membrane. Pronounced disruption and decomposition of **cell** walls and cytoplasmic membranes causes cells to lyse. Decreased processing times in ohmic heating maintains nutritional and sensory properties of foods. Ohmic heating inactivates antinutritional fact...
661. ...pectively. In these cases they refer to the number of dimensions in which a confined particle can act as a free carrier. See external links, below, for application examples in biotechnology and solar **cell** technology. The electronic and optical properties of materials are affected by size and shape. Well-established technical achievements including quantum dots were derived from size manipulation and i...
662. ...e works well whenever a sufficiently uniform stream can be created, as discussed above. Therefore, it has been used in controlling macroscopic particle streams, for instance in fluorescence-activated **cell** sorting, as well. Another application was in one type of inkjet printer. Electrostatic deflection is very useful for small deflection angles but is well known to be inferior to magnetic deflection fo...
663. ...ther atrazine was being metabolized by the hornwort plant or by epiphytic microorganisms in the biofilm layer surrounding the plant. In biology, this technique may be used to determine the tissue (or **cell**) localization of a radioactive substance, either introduced into a metabolic pathway, bound to a receptor or enzyme, or hybridized to a nucleic acid. Applications for autoradiography are broad, rangi...
664. ...itu hybridization histochemistry. Radioactive precursors of DNA and RNA, [H]-thymidine and [H]-uridine respectively, may be introduced to living cells to determine the timing of several phases of the **cell** cycle. RNA or DNA viral sequences can also be located in this fashion. These probes are usually labeled with P, P, or S. In the realm of behavioral endocrinology, autoradiography can be used to deter...
665. ...ed to determine hormonal uptake and indicate receptor location; an animal can be injected with a radiolabeled hormone, or the study can be conducted "in vitro". The rate of DNA replication in a mouse **cell** growing "in vitro" was measured by autoradiography as 33 nucleotides per second. The rate of phage T4 DNA elongation in phage-infected "E. coli" was also measured by autoradiography as 749 nucleotide...
666. ...means the posttranslational addition of a phosphate group to specific amino acids of proteins, and such modification can lead to a drastic change in the stability or the function of a protein in the **cell**. Protein phosphorylation can be detected on an autoradiograph, after incubating the protein in vitro with the appropriate kinase and γ-32P-ATP. The radiolabeled phosphate of latter is incorporated in...
667. ...ces has led to significant advancements in the production and efficiency of many modern components such as light-emitting diodes, transistors for example. Today, such devices are ubiquitous in modern **cell** phones, computers, and many other computing devices. Quantum wells are formed in semiconductors by having a material, like gallium arsenide, sandwiched between two layers of a material with a wider b...
668. ...can be fabricated using layer-by-layer deposition techniques such as molecular beam epitaxy or chemical vapor deposition. It has also been shown that metal or dielectric nanoparticles added above the **cell** lead to further increases in photo-absorption by scattering incident light into lateral propagation paths confined within the multiple-quantum-well intrinsic layer. With conventional single-junction...
669. ...arger current. The highest open-circuit voltage achievable is the built-in bandgap of the material. Because the bandgap of the semiconductor determines both the Current and Voltage, designing a solar **cell** is always a trade-off between maximizing current output with a low bandgap and voltage output with a high bandgap. The maximum theoretical limit of efficiency for conventional solar cells is determin...
670. ...ecording a maximum efficiency of 46% under high sunlight concentrations. Multi-junction solar cells are created by stacking multiple p-i-n junctions of different bandgaps. The efficiency of the solar **cell** increases with the inclusion of more of the solar radiation in the absorption spectrum by introducing more QWs of different bandgaps. The direct relation between the bandgap and lattice constant hind...
671. ...meaning "light", and from "volt", the unit of electromotive force, the volt, which in turn comes from the last name of the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta, inventor of the battery (electrochemical **cell**). The term "photovoltaic" has been in use in English since 1849. In 1989, the German Research Ministry initiated the first ever program to finance PV roofs (2200 roofs). A program led by Walter Sandt...
672. ...ation is direct, but weaker, so that this increase does not compensate for the decrease in VOC. As a consequence, Pmax decreases when T increases. This correlation between the power output of a solar **cell** and the working temperature of its junction depends on the semiconductor material, and is due to the influence of T on the concentration, lifetime, and mobility of the intrinsic carriers, i.e., elect...
673. ...ction depends on the semiconductor material, and is due to the influence of T on the concentration, lifetime, and mobility of the intrinsic carriers, i.e., electrons and gaps. inside the photovoltaic **cell**. Temperature sensitivity is usually described by temperature coefficients, each of which expresses the derivative of the parameter to which it refers with respect to the junction temperature. The val...
674. ...us, a group V element, which creates an n-type semiconducting surface. To reduce energy losses, an anti-reflective coating is added to the surface, along with electrical contacts. After finishing the **cell**, cells are connected via electrical circuit according to the specific application and prepared for shipping and installation. Solar photovoltaic power is not entirely "clean energy": production produ...
675. ...each device by both reducing material and energy consumption during manufacturing. The global market share of CdTe was 4.7% in 2008. This technology's highest power conversion efficiency is 21%. The **cell** structure includes glass substrate (around 2 mm), transparent conductor layer, CdS buffer layer (50–150 nm), CdTe absorber and a metal contact layer. CdTe PV systems require less energy input in thei...
676. ...y systems have become cheaper to build than fossil fuel power plants across much of the world, thanks to advances in wind and solar energy technology, in particular. In 1977 crystalline silicon solar **cell** prices were at $76.67/W. Although wholesale module prices remained flat at around $3.50 to $4.00/W in the early 2000s due to high demand in Germany and Spain afforded by generous subsidies and shorta...
677. ...e course of 2011. In 2013 wholesale prices had fallen to $0.74/W. This has been cited as evidence supporting 'Swanson's law', an observation similar to the famous Moore's Law, which claims that solar **cell** prices fall 20% for every doubling of industry capacity. The Fraunhofer Institute defines the 'learning rate' as the drop in prices as the cumulative production doubles, some 25% between 1980 and 201...
678. ...0 countries as of 2011. Germany and Spain have been the most important countries regarding offering subsidies for PV, and the policies of these countries have driven demand in the past. Some US solar **cell** manufacturing companies have repeatedly complained that the dropping prices of PV module costs have been achieved due to subsidies by the government of China, and the dumping of these products below...
679. ...esent the majority of solar cells produced currently there are many new and promising technologies that have the potential to be scaled up to meet future energy needs. As of 2018, crystalline silicon **cell** technology serves as the basis for several PV module types, including monocrystalline, multicrystalline, mono PERC, and bifacial. Another newer technology, thin-film PV, are manufactured by depositin...
680. ...silicon-based wafers. In 2019 university labs at Oxford, Stanford and elsewhere reported perovskite solar cells with efficiencies of 20-25%. Copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) is a thin film solar **cell** based on the copper indium diselenide (CIS) family of chalcopyrite semiconductors. CIS and CIGS are often used interchangeably within the CIS/CIGS community. The cell structure includes soda lime gla...
681. ...nide (CIGS) is a thin film solar cell based on the copper indium diselenide (CIS) family of chalcopyrite semiconductors. CIS and CIGS are often used interchangeably within the CIS/CIGS community. The **cell** structure includes soda lime glass as the substrate, Mo layer as the back contact, CIS/CIGS as the absorber layer, cadmium sulfide (CdS) or Zn (S,OH)x as the buffer layer, and ZnO:Al as the front con...
682. ...ct, CIS/CIGS as the absorber layer, cadmium sulfide (CdS) or Zn (S,OH)x as the buffer layer, and ZnO:Al as the front contact. CIGS is approximately 1/100th the thickness of conventional silicon solar **cell** technologies. Materials necessary for assembly are readily available, and are less costly per watt of solar cell. CIGS based solar devices resist performance degradation over time and are highly stab...
683. ...ont contact. CIGS is approximately 1/100th the thickness of conventional silicon solar cell technologies. Materials necessary for assembly are readily available, and are less costly per watt of solar **cell**. CIGS based solar devices resist performance degradation over time and are highly stable in the field. Reported global warming potential impacts of CIGS ranges 20.5–58.8 grams CO-eq/kWh of electricit...
684. ...is an issue within the buffer layer of CIGS modules because it contains cadmium and gallium. CIS modules do not contain any heavy metals. Dye-sensitized solar cells (DSCs) are a novel thin film solar **cell**. These solar cells operate under ambient light better than other photovoltaic technologies. They work with light being absorbed in a sensitizing dye between two charge transport materials. Dye surrou...
685. ...ics. Because it is liquid, it is unstable to temperature variation, leading to freezing in cold temperatures and expansion in warm temperatures causing failure. Another disadvantage is that the solar **cell** is not ideal for large scale application because of its low efficiency. Some of the benefits for DSC is that it can be used in a variety of light levels (including cloudy conditions), it has a low pr...
686. ...significantly easier to manufacture. However, these dye-sensitized photovoltaics present storage problems because the liquid electrolyte is toxic and can potentially permeate the plastics used in the **cell**. Quantum dot solar cells are solution-processed, meaning they are potentially scalable, but currently they peak at 12% efficiency. Organic and polymer photovoltaic (OPV) are a relatively new area of...
687. ...e solution-processed, meaning they are potentially scalable, but currently they peak at 12% efficiency. Organic and polymer photovoltaic (OPV) are a relatively new area of research. The tradition OPV **cell** structure layers consist of a semi-transparent electrode, electron blocking layer, tunnel junction, holes blocking layer, electrode, with the sun hitting the transparent electrode. OPV replaces silve...
688. ...unlight onto small, but highly efficient, multi-junction solar cells. These systems sometimes use solar trackers and a cooling system to increase their efficiency. In 2019, the world record for solar **cell** efficiency at 47.1% was achieved by using multi-junction concentrator solar cells, developed at National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Colorado, US. The highest efficiencies achieved without concentra...
689. ...module causes the electrical output of one or more strings of cells in the module to decrease. One of the major causes for the decreased performance of cells is overheating. The efficiency of a solar **cell** declines by about 0.5% for every 1 degree Celsius increase in temperature. This means that a 100 degree increase in surface temperature could decrease the efficiency of a solar cell by about half. Se...
690. ...ciency of a solar cell declines by about 0.5% for every 1 degree Celsius increase in temperature. This means that a 100 degree increase in surface temperature could decrease the efficiency of a solar **cell** by about half. Self-cooling solar cells are one solution to this problem. Rather than using energy to cool the surface, pyramid and cone shapes can be formed from silica, and attached to the surface...
691. ...the DC Comics universe), Black Adam was mentioned by Dr. Sivana while listening to witness reports of the wizard Shazam. Sivana mentions that Black Adam was a slave who was teleported from his prison **cell** to the Rock of Eternity and granted his powers by the wizard. Adam then went on to save Kahndaq from the Seven Deadly Sins before vanishing. During Dr. Sivana's explanation, drawings of Black Adam ar...
692. ...s Drs. Erwin Neher and Bert Sakmann shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their development of the patch-clamp technique that allows the detection of minute electrical currents through **cell** membranes. This method allowed the detection of more than 20 different types of ion channel which permit positive or negatively charged ions to cross the cell membrane, confirming that cellular elect...
693. ...on of minute electrical currents through cell membranes. This method allowed the detection of more than 20 different types of ion channel which permit positive or negatively charged ions to cross the **cell** membrane, confirming that cellular electrical activity is not limited only to nerve and muscle tissues. A study by a neuroretinologist in the late 1980s suggested that microcurrent stimulation of acu...
694. ...ent density"), a contribution from atomic-scale (when they are present). The polarization inside a solid is not, in general, uniquely defined. Because a bulk solid is periodic, one must choose a unit **cell** in which to compute the polarization (see figure). In other words, two people, Alice and Bob, looking at the same solid, may calculate different values of P, and neither of them will be wrong. For ex...
695. ...zation (see figure). In other words, two people, Alice and Bob, looking at the same solid, may calculate different values of P, and neither of them will be wrong. For example, if Alice chooses a unit **cell** with positive ions at the top and Bob chooses the unit cell with negative ions at the top, their computed P vectors will have opposite directions. Alice and Bob will agree on the microscopic electric...
696. ...ob, looking at the same solid, may calculate different values of P, and neither of them will be wrong. For example, if Alice chooses a unit cell with positive ions at the top and Bob chooses the unit **cell** with negative ions at the top, their computed P vectors will have opposite directions. Alice and Bob will agree on the microscopic electric field E in the solid, but disagree on the value of the disp...
697. ...lue of P is not uniquely defined in a bulk solid, "variations" in P "are" uniquely defined. If the crystal is gradually changed from one structure to another, there will be a current inside each unit **cell**, due to the motion of nuclei and electrons. This current results in a macroscopic transfer of charge from one side of the crystal to the other, and therefore it can be measured with an ammeter (like...
698. ...ectrons interacting by electrostatic forces is replaced by a "gas of stars" interacting by gravitational forces. Landau damping can be manipulated exactly in numerical simulations such as particle-in-**cell** simulation. It was proved to exist experimentally by Malmberg and Wharton in 1964, almost two decades after its prediction by Landau in 1946. Landau damping occurs because of the energy exchange betw...
699. ...ering of carriers by deflecting them, this effect is important mainly at low temperatures where other scattering mechanisms are weak. These electric fields arise from the distortion of the basic unit **cell** as strain is applied in certain directions in the lattice. Surface roughness scattering caused by interfacial disorder is short range scattering limiting the mobility of quasi-two-dimensional electro...
700. ...potassium ions must first be set up. This work is done by the ion pumps/transporters and/or exchangers and generally is powered by ATP. In the case of the resting membrane potential across an animal **cell**'s plasma membrane, potassium (and sodium) gradients are established by the Na/K-ATPase (sodium-potassium pump) which transports 2 potassium ions inside and 3 sodium ions outside at the cost of 1 ATP...
701. ...because the effect of charge on electrochemical potential is hugely greater than the effect of concentration so an undetectable change in concentration creates a great change in electric potential.  **Cell** membranes are typically permeable to only a subset of ions. These usually include potassium ions, chloride ions, bicarbonate ions, and others. To simplify the description of the ionic basis of the re...
702. ...on channels. In most neurons the resting potential has a value of approximately −70 mV. The resting potential is mostly determined by the concentrations of the ions in the fluids on both sides of the **cell** membrane and the ion transport proteins that are in the cell membrane. How the concentrations of ions and the membrane transport proteins influence the value of the resting potential is outlined belo...
703. ...e of approximately −70 mV. The resting potential is mostly determined by the concentrations of the ions in the fluids on both sides of the cell membrane and the ion transport proteins that are in the **cell** membrane. How the concentrations of ions and the membrane transport proteins influence the value of the resting potential is outlined below. The resting potential of a cell can be most thoroughly und...
704. ...t proteins that are in the cell membrane. How the concentrations of ions and the membrane transport proteins influence the value of the resting potential is outlined below. The resting potential of a **cell** can be most thoroughly understood by thinking of it in terms of equilibrium potentials. In the example diagram here, the model cell was given only one permeant ion (potassium). In this case, the rest...
705. ...the resting potential is outlined below. The resting potential of a cell can be most thoroughly understood by thinking of it in terms of equilibrium potentials. In the example diagram here, the model **cell** was given only one permeant ion (potassium). In this case, the resting potential of this cell would be the same as the equilibrium potential for potassium. However, a real cell is more complicated, h...
706. ...y understood by thinking of it in terms of equilibrium potentials. In the example diagram here, the model cell was given only one permeant ion (potassium). In this case, the resting potential of this **cell** would be the same as the equilibrium potential for potassium. However, a real cell is more complicated, having permeabilities to many ions, each of which contributes to the resting potential. To unde...
707. ...iagram here, the model cell was given only one permeant ion (potassium). In this case, the resting potential of this cell would be the same as the equilibrium potential for potassium. However, a real **cell** is more complicated, having permeabilities to many ions, each of which contributes to the resting potential. To understand better, consider a cell with only two permeant ions, potassium, and sodium....
708. ...equilibrium potential for potassium. However, a real cell is more complicated, having permeabilities to many ions, each of which contributes to the resting potential. To understand better, consider a **cell** with only two permeant ions, potassium, and sodium. Consider a case where these two ions have equal concentration gradients directed in opposite directions, and that the membrane permeabilities to bo...
709. ...assium, and sodium. Consider a case where these two ions have equal concentration gradients directed in opposite directions, and that the membrane permeabilities to both ions are equal. K leaving the **cell** will tend to drag the membrane potential toward "E". Na entering the cell will tend to drag the membrane potential toward the reversal potential for sodium "E". Since the permeabilities to both ions...
710. ...tration gradients directed in opposite directions, and that the membrane permeabilities to both ions are equal. K leaving the cell will tend to drag the membrane potential toward "E". Na entering the **cell** will tend to drag the membrane potential toward the reversal potential for sodium "E". Since the permeabilities to both ions were set to be equal, the membrane potential will, at the end of the Na/K...
711. ...y continual K influx and Na efflux via ion transporters. Such situation with similar permeabilities for counter-acting ions, like potassium and sodium in animal cells, can be extremely costly for the **cell** if these permeabilities are relatively large, as it takes a lot of ATP energy to pump the ions back. Because no real cell can afford such equal and large ionic permeabilities at rest, resting potenti...
712. ...s, like potassium and sodium in animal cells, can be extremely costly for the cell if these permeabilities are relatively large, as it takes a lot of ATP energy to pump the ions back. Because no real **cell** can afford such equal and large ionic permeabilities at rest, resting potential of animal cells is determined by predominant high permeability to potassium and adjusted to the required value by modul...
713. ...tial of animal cells is determined by predominant high permeability to potassium and adjusted to the required value by modulating sodium and chloride permeabilities and gradients. In a healthy animal **cell** Na permeability is about 5% of the K permeability or even less, whereas the respective reversal potentials are +60 mV for sodium ("E")and −80 mV for potassium ("E"). Thus the membrane potential will...
714. ...mV for potassium ("E"). Thus the membrane potential will not be right at "E", but rather depolarized from "E" by an amount of approximately 5% of the 140 mV difference between "E" and "E". Thus, the **cell**'s resting potential will be about −73 mV. In a more formal notation, the membrane potential is the weighted average of each contributing ion's equilibrium potential. The size of each weight is the re...
715. ...ntial: where  For determination of membrane potentials, the two most important types of membrane ion transport proteins are ion channels and ion transporters. Ion channel proteins create paths across **cell** membranes through which ions can passively diffuse without direct expenditure of metabolic energy. They have selectivity for certain ions, thus, there are potassium-, chloride-, and sodium-selective...
716. ...rect expenditure of metabolic energy. They have selectivity for certain ions, thus, there are potassium-, chloride-, and sodium-selective ion channels. Different cells and even different parts of one **cell** (dendrites, cell bodies, nodes of Ranvier) will have different amounts of various ion transport proteins. Typically, the amount of certain potassium channels is most important for control of the rest...
717. ...of metabolic energy. They have selectivity for certain ions, thus, there are potassium-, chloride-, and sodium-selective ion channels. Different cells and even different parts of one cell (dendrites, **cell** bodies, nodes of Ranvier) will have different amounts of various ion transport proteins. Typically, the amount of certain potassium channels is most important for control of the resting potential (se...
718. ...ain potassium channels is most important for control of the resting potential (see below). Some ion pumps such as the Na+/K+-ATPase are electrogenic, that is, they produce charge imbalance across the **cell** membrane and can also contribute directly to the membrane potential. Most pumps use metabolic energy (ATP) to function. For most animal cells potassium ions (K) are the most important for the resting...
719. ...s that remain open all the time. There will be net movement of positively charged potassium ions through these potassium channels with a resulting accumulation of excess negative charge inside of the **cell**. The outward movement of positively charged potassium ions is due to random molecular motion (diffusion) and continues until enough excess negative charge accumulates inside the cell to form a membra...
720. ...ge inside of the cell. The outward movement of positively charged potassium ions is due to random molecular motion (diffusion) and continues until enough excess negative charge accumulates inside the **cell** to form a membrane potential which can balance the difference in concentration of potassium between inside and outside the cell. "Balance" means that the electrical force (potential) that results fro...
721. ...nd continues until enough excess negative charge accumulates inside the cell to form a membrane potential which can balance the difference in concentration of potassium between inside and outside the **cell**. "Balance" means that the electrical force (potential) that results from the build-up of ionic charge, and which impedes outward diffusion, increases until it is equal in magnitude but opposite in di...
722. ...theoretical concept. Other cells with little in the way of membrane transport functions that change with time have a resting membrane potential that can be measured by inserting an electrode into the **cell**. Transmembrane potentials can also be measured optically with dyes that change their optical properties according to the membrane potential. Resting currents in nerves were measured and described by...
723. ...e commonly known by its abbreviation "FF", is a parameter which, in conjunction with the open circuit voltage (V) and short circuit current (I) of the panel, determines the maximum power from a solar **cell**. Fill factor is defined as the ratio of the maximum power from the solar cell to the product of V and I. There are three main types of MPPT algorithms: perturb-and-observe, incremental conductance an...
724. ...n with the open circuit voltage (V) and short circuit current (I) of the panel, determines the maximum power from a solar cell. Fill factor is defined as the ratio of the maximum power from the solar **cell** to the product of V and I. There are three main types of MPPT algorithms: perturb-and-observe, incremental conductance and constant voltage. The first two methods are often referred to as "hill climb...
725. ...ation Institute. Neurons are electrically active cells. In neurons, information is coded and transmitted as a series of electrical impulses called action potentials, which represent a brief change in **cell** electric potential of approximately 80–90 mV. Nerve signals are frequency modulated; i.e. the number of action potentials that occur in a unit of time is proportional to the intensity of the transmit...
726. ...ransmitted signal. Typical action potential frequency is between 4 and 12 Hz. An electrical stimulation can artificially elicit this action potential by changing the electric potential across a nerve **cell** membrane (this also includes the nerve axon) by inducing electrical charge in the immediate vicinity of the outer membrane of the cell. FES devices take advantage of this property to electrically act...
727. ...tion potential by changing the electric potential across a nerve cell membrane (this also includes the nerve axon) by inducing electrical charge in the immediate vicinity of the outer membrane of the **cell**. FES devices take advantage of this property to electrically activate nerve cells, which then may go on to activate muscles or other nerves. However, special care must be taken in designing safe FES...
728. ...activate muscles or other nerves. However, special care must be taken in designing safe FES devices, as electric current through tissue can lead to adverse effects such as decrease in excitability or **cell** death. This may be due to thermal damage, electroporation of the cell membrane, toxic products from electrochemical reactions at the electrode surface, or over-excitation of the targeted neurons or m...
729. ...in designing safe FES devices, as electric current through tissue can lead to adverse effects such as decrease in excitability or cell death. This may be due to thermal damage, electroporation of the **cell** membrane, toxic products from electrochemical reactions at the electrode surface, or over-excitation of the targeted neurons or muscles. Typically FES is concerned with stimulation of neurons and ner...
730. ...expressed as a coordinated contraction of one or more muscles in response to the sensory nerve stimulation. When a nerve is stimulated, i.e., when sufficient electrical charge is provided to a nerve **cell**, a localized depolarization of the cell wall occurs resulting in an action potential that propagates toward both ends of the axon. Typically, one "wave" of action potentials will propagate along the...
731. ...of one or more muscles in response to the sensory nerve stimulation. When a nerve is stimulated, i.e., when sufficient electrical charge is provided to a nerve cell, a localized depolarization of the **cell** wall occurs resulting in an action potential that propagates toward both ends of the axon. Typically, one "wave" of action potentials will propagate along the axon towards the muscle (orthodromic pro...
732. ...cally, one "wave" of action potentials will propagate along the axon towards the muscle (orthodromic propagation) and concurrently, as the other "wave" of action potentials will propagate towards the **cell** body in the central nervous system (antidromic propagation). While the direction of propagation in case of the antidromic stimulation and the sensory nerve stimulation is the same, i.e., towards the...
733. ...ld not be connected to an earth conductor because the high-impedance casing will cause only low-fault currents that are unable to trigger the fusible cut-out.  Insulated AC/DC power supplies (such as **cell**-phone chargers) are typically designated as Class II, meaning that the DC output wires are isolated from the AC input. The designation "Class II" should not be confused with the designation "Class 2"...
734. ...rts, these cells form the cardiac pacemaker and are found in the sinoatrial node in the right atrium. They produce roughly 60–100 action potentials every minute. The action potential passes along the **cell** membrane causing the cell to contract, therefore the activity of the sinoatrial node results in a resting heart rate of roughly 60–100 beats per minute. All cardiac muscle cells are electrically link...
735. ...cardiac pacemaker and are found in the sinoatrial node in the right atrium. They produce roughly 60–100 action potentials every minute. The action potential passes along the cell membrane causing the **cell** to contract, therefore the activity of the sinoatrial node results in a resting heart rate of roughly 60–100 beats per minute. All cardiac muscle cells are electrically linked to one another, by inte...
736. ...ts in a resting heart rate of roughly 60–100 beats per minute. All cardiac muscle cells are electrically linked to one another, by intercalated discs which allow the action potential to pass from one **cell** to the next. This means that all atrial cells can contract together, and then all ventricular cells. Rate dependence of the action potential is a fundamental property of cardiac cells and alterations...
737. ...ng more positive) and repolarization (voltage becoming more negative) of the action potential in the atria and ventricles. Similar to skeletal muscle, the resting membrane potential (voltage when the **cell** is not electrically excited) of ventricular cells is around −90 millivolts (mV; 1 mV = 0.001 V), i.e. the inside of the membrane is more negative than the outside. The main ions found outside the cel...
738. ...ell is not electrically excited) of ventricular cells is around −90 millivolts (mV; 1 mV = 0.001 V), i.e. the inside of the membrane is more negative than the outside. The main ions found outside the **cell** at rest are sodium (Na), and chloride (Cl), whereas inside the cell it is mainly potassium (K). The action potential begins with the voltage becoming more positive; this is known as depolarization an...
739. ...millivolts (mV; 1 mV = 0.001 V), i.e. the inside of the membrane is more negative than the outside. The main ions found outside the cell at rest are sodium (Na), and chloride (Cl), whereas inside the **cell** it is mainly potassium (K). The action potential begins with the voltage becoming more positive; this is known as depolarization and is mainly due to the opening of sodium channels that allow Na to f...
740. ...potassium (K). The action potential begins with the voltage becoming more positive; this is known as depolarization and is mainly due to the opening of sodium channels that allow Na to flow into the **cell**. After a delay (known as the absolute refractory period), the action potential terminates as potassium channels open, allowing K to leave the cell and causing the membrane potential to return to nega...
741. ...ng of sodium channels that allow Na to flow into the cell. After a delay (known as the absolute refractory period), the action potential terminates as potassium channels open, allowing K to leave the **cell** and causing the membrane potential to return to negative, this is known as repolarization. Another important ion is calcium (Ca), which can be found inside the cell in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR)...
742. ...nels open, allowing K to leave the cell and causing the membrane potential to return to negative, this is known as repolarization. Another important ion is calcium (Ca), which can be found inside the **cell** in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) where calcium is stored, and is also found outside of the cell. Release of Ca from the SR, via a process called calcium-induced calcium release, is vital for the pl...
743. ...this is known as repolarization. Another important ion is calcium (Ca), which can be found inside the cell in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) where calcium is stored, and is also found outside of the **cell**. Release of Ca from the SR, via a process called calcium-induced calcium release, is vital for the plateau phase of the action potential (see phase 2, below) and is a fundamental step in cardiac exci...
744. ...ntricular myocyte. Outlined below are the five phases of the ventricular myocyte action potential, with reference also to the SAN action potential. In the ventricular myocyte, phase 4 occurs when the **cell** is at rest, in a period known as diastole. In the standard non-pacemaker cell the voltage during this phase is more or less constant, at roughly -90 mV. The resting membrane potential results from th...
745. ...te action potential, with reference also to the SAN action potential. In the ventricular myocyte, phase 4 occurs when the cell is at rest, in a period known as diastole. In the standard non-pacemaker **cell** the voltage during this phase is more or less constant, at roughly -90 mV. The resting membrane potential results from the flux of ions having flowed into the cell (e.g. sodium and calcium), the flux...
746. ...tole. In the standard non-pacemaker cell the voltage during this phase is more or less constant, at roughly -90 mV. The resting membrane potential results from the flux of ions having flowed into the **cell** (e.g. sodium and calcium), the flux of ions having flowed out of the cell (e.g. potassium, chloride and bicarbonate), as well as the flux of ions generated by the different membrane pumps, being perf...
747. ...more or less constant, at roughly -90 mV. The resting membrane potential results from the flux of ions having flowed into the cell (e.g. sodium and calcium), the flux of ions having flowed out of the **cell** (e.g. potassium, chloride and bicarbonate), as well as the flux of ions generated by the different membrane pumps, being perfectly balanced. The activity of these pumps serve two purposes. The first...
748. ...being at the equilibrium is the reason for the existence of an electrical gradient, for they represent a net displacement of charges across the membrane, which are unable to immediately re-enter the **cell** to restore the electrical equilibrium. Therefore, their slow re-entrance in the cell needs to be counterbalanced or the cell would slowly lose its membrane potential. The second purpose, intricately...
749. ...for they represent a net displacement of charges across the membrane, which are unable to immediately re-enter the cell to restore the electrical equilibrium. Therefore, their slow re-entrance in the **cell** needs to be counterbalanced or the cell would slowly lose its membrane potential. The second purpose, intricately linked to the first, is to keep the intracellular concentration more or less constant...
750. ...charges across the membrane, which are unable to immediately re-enter the cell to restore the electrical equilibrium. Therefore, their slow re-entrance in the cell needs to be counterbalanced or the **cell** would slowly lose its membrane potential. The second purpose, intricately linked to the first, is to keep the intracellular concentration more or less constant, and in this case to re-establish the o...
751. ...keep the intracellular concentration more or less constant, and in this case to re-establish the original chemical gradients, that is to force the sodium and calcium which previously flowed into the **cell** out of it, and the potassium which previously flowed out of the cell back into it (though as the potassium is mostly at the electrochemical equilibrium, its chemical gradient will naturally reequilib...
752. ...his case to re-establish the original chemical gradients, that is to force the sodium and calcium which previously flowed into the cell out of it, and the potassium which previously flowed out of the **cell** back into it (though as the potassium is mostly at the electrochemical equilibrium, its chemical gradient will naturally reequilibrate itself opposite to the electrical gradient, without the need for...
753. ...mechanism). For example, the sodium (Na) and potassium (K) ions are maintained by the sodium-potassium pump which uses energy (in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)) to move three Na out of the **cell** and two K into the cell. Another example is the sodium-calcium exchanger which removes one Ca from the cell for three Na into the cell. During this phase the membrane is most permeable to K, which ca...
754. ...the sodium (Na) and potassium (K) ions are maintained by the sodium-potassium pump which uses energy (in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)) to move three Na out of the cell and two K into the **cell**. Another example is the sodium-calcium exchanger which removes one Ca from the cell for three Na into the cell. During this phase the membrane is most permeable to K, which can travel into or out of...
755. ...which uses energy (in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)) to move three Na out of the cell and two K into the cell. Another example is the sodium-calcium exchanger which removes one Ca from the **cell** for three Na into the cell. During this phase the membrane is most permeable to K, which can travel into or out of cell through leak channels, including the inwardly rectifying potassium channel. The...
756. ...orm of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)) to move three Na out of the cell and two K into the cell. Another example is the sodium-calcium exchanger which removes one Ca from the cell for three Na into the **cell**. During this phase the membrane is most permeable to K, which can travel into or out of cell through leak channels, including the inwardly rectifying potassium channel. Therefore, the resting membran...
757. .... Another example is the sodium-calcium exchanger which removes one Ca from the cell for three Na into the cell. During this phase the membrane is most permeable to K, which can travel into or out of **cell** through leak channels, including the inwardly rectifying potassium channel. Therefore, the resting membrane potential is mostly equal to K equilibrium potential and can be calculated using the Goldma...
758. ...otential slowly becomes more positive, until it reaches a set value (around -40 mV; known as the threshold potential) or until it is depolarized by another action potential, coming from a neighboring **cell**. The pacemaker potential is thought to be due to a group of channels, referred to as HCN channels (Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated). These channels open at very negative voltages...
759. ...ed cyclic nucleotide-gated). These channels open at very negative voltages (i.e. immediately after phase 3 of the previous action potential; see below) and allow the passage of both K and Na into the **cell**. Due to their unusual property of being activated by very negative membrane potentials, the movement of ions through the HCN channels is referred to as the funny current (see below). Another hypothes...
760. ...N channels is referred to as the funny current (see below). Another hypothesis regarding the pacemaker potential is the 'calcium clock'. Calcium is released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum within the **cell**. This calcium then increases activation of the sodium-calcium exchanger resulting in the increase in membrane potential (as a +3 charge is being brought into the cell (by the 3Na) but only a +2 charg...
761. ...arcoplasmic reticulum within the cell. This calcium then increases activation of the sodium-calcium exchanger resulting in the increase in membrane potential (as a +3 charge is being brought into the **cell** (by the 3Na) but only a +2 charge is leaving the cell (by the Ca) therefore there is a net charge of +1 entering the cell). This calcium is then pumped back into the cell and back into the SR via cal...
762. ...en increases activation of the sodium-calcium exchanger resulting in the increase in membrane potential (as a +3 charge is being brought into the cell (by the 3Na) but only a +2 charge is leaving the **cell** (by the Ca) therefore there is a net charge of +1 entering the cell). This calcium is then pumped back into the cell and back into the SR via calcium pumps (including the SERCA). This phase consists...
763. ...the increase in membrane potential (as a +3 charge is being brought into the cell (by the 3Na) but only a +2 charge is leaving the cell (by the Ca) therefore there is a net charge of +1 entering the **cell**). This calcium is then pumped back into the cell and back into the SR via calcium pumps (including the SERCA). This phase consists of a rapid, positive change in voltage across the cell membrane (dep...
764. ...ge is being brought into the cell (by the 3Na) but only a +2 charge is leaving the cell (by the Ca) therefore there is a net charge of +1 entering the cell). This calcium is then pumped back into the **cell** and back into the SR via calcium pumps (including the SERCA). This phase consists of a rapid, positive change in voltage across the cell membrane (depolarization) lasting less than 2 ms in ventricula...
765. ...entering the cell). This calcium is then pumped back into the cell and back into the SR via calcium pumps (including the SERCA). This phase consists of a rapid, positive change in voltage across the **cell** membrane (depolarization) lasting less than 2 ms in ventricular cells and 10–20 ms in SAN cells. This occurs due to a net flow of positive charge into the cell. In non-pacemaker cells (i.e. ventricul...
766. ..., positive change in voltage across the cell membrane (depolarization) lasting less than 2 ms in ventricular cells and 10–20 ms in SAN cells. This occurs due to a net flow of positive charge into the **cell**. In non-pacemaker cells (i.e. ventricular cells), this is produced predominantly by the activation of Na channels, which increases the membrane conductance (flow) of Na (g). These channels are activa...
767. ...s produced predominantly by the activation of Na channels, which increases the membrane conductance (flow) of Na (g). These channels are activated when an action potential arrives from a neighbouring **cell**, through gap junctions. When this happens, the voltage within the cell increases slightly. If this increased voltage reaches the threshold potential (approximately −70 mV) it causes the Na channels t...
768. ...ses the membrane conductance (flow) of Na (g). These channels are activated when an action potential arrives from a neighbouring cell, through gap junctions. When this happens, the voltage within the **cell** increases slightly. If this increased voltage reaches the threshold potential (approximately −70 mV) it causes the Na channels to open. This produces a larger influx of sodium into the cell, rapidly...
769. ...ithin the cell increases slightly. If this increased voltage reaches the threshold potential (approximately −70 mV) it causes the Na channels to open. This produces a larger influx of sodium into the **cell**, rapidly increasing the voltage further to around +50 mV, i.e. towards the Na equilibrium potential. However, if the initial stimulus is not strong enough, and the threshold potential is not reached,...
770. ...n that in the non-pacemaker action potential waveform. This phase begins with the rapid inactivation of the Na channels by the inner gate (inactivation gate), reducing the movement of sodium into the **cell**. At the same time potassium channels (called I) open and close rapidly, allowing for a brief flow of potassium ions out of the cell, making the membrane potential slightly more negative. This is refe...
771. ...gate (inactivation gate), reducing the movement of sodium into the cell. At the same time potassium channels (called I) open and close rapidly, allowing for a brief flow of potassium ions out of the **cell**, making the membrane potential slightly more negative. This is referred to as a 'notch' on the action potential waveform. There is no obvious phase 1 present in pacemaker cells. This phase is also kn...
772. ...known as the "plateau" phase due to the membrane potential remaining almost constant, as the membrane slowly begins to repolarize. This is due to the near balance of charge moving into and out of the **cell**. During this phase delayed rectifier potassium channels (I) allow potassium to leave the cell while L-type calcium channels (activated by the influx of sodium during phase 0) allow the movement of ca...
773. ...embrane slowly begins to repolarize. This is due to the near balance of charge moving into and out of the cell. During this phase delayed rectifier potassium channels (I) allow potassium to leave the **cell** while L-type calcium channels (activated by the influx of sodium during phase 0) allow the movement of calcium ions into the cell. These calcium ions bind to and open more calcium channels (called ry...
774. ...delayed rectifier potassium channels (I) allow potassium to leave the cell while L-type calcium channels (activated by the influx of sodium during phase 0) allow the movement of calcium ions into the **cell**. These calcium ions bind to and open more calcium channels (called ryanodine receptors) located on the sarcoplasmic reticulum within the cell, allowing the flow of calcium out of the SR. These calciu...
775. ...ring phase 0) allow the movement of calcium ions into the cell. These calcium ions bind to and open more calcium channels (called ryanodine receptors) located on the sarcoplasmic reticulum within the **cell**, allowing the flow of calcium out of the SR. These calcium ions are responsible for the contraction of the heart. Calcium also activates chloride channels called I, which allow Cl to enter the cell....
776. ...e cell, allowing the flow of calcium out of the SR. These calcium ions are responsible for the contraction of the heart. Calcium also activates chloride channels called I, which allow Cl to enter the **cell**. Increased calcium concentration in the cell also increases activity of the sodium-calcium exchangers, while increased sodium concentration (from the depolarisation of phase 0) increases activity of...
777. ...he SR. These calcium ions are responsible for the contraction of the heart. Calcium also activates chloride channels called I, which allow Cl to enter the cell. Increased calcium concentration in the **cell** also increases activity of the sodium-calcium exchangers, while increased sodium concentration (from the depolarisation of phase 0) increases activity of the sodium-potassium pumps. The movement of a...
778. ...hannels to open. These are primarily the rapid delayed rectifier K channels (I) and the inwardly rectifying K current, I. This net outward, positive current (equal to loss of positive charge from the **cell**) causes the cell to repolarize. The delayed rectifier K channels close when the membrane potential is restored to about -85 to -90 mV, while I remains conducting throughout phase 4, which helps to se...
779. ...These are primarily the rapid delayed rectifier K channels (I) and the inwardly rectifying K current, I. This net outward, positive current (equal to loss of positive charge from the cell) causes the **cell** to repolarize. The delayed rectifier K channels close when the membrane potential is restored to about -85 to -90 mV, while I remains conducting throughout phase 4, which helps to set the resting mem...
780. ...ardiac cells have two refractory periods, the first from the beginning of phase 0 until part way through phase 3; this is known as the absolute refractory period during which it is impossible for the **cell** to produce another action potential. This is immediately followed, until the end of phase 3, by a relative refractory period, during which a stronger-than-usual stimulus is required to produce anothe...
781. ...than-usual stimulus is required to produce another action potential. These two refractory periods are caused by changes in the states of sodium and potassium channels. The rapid depolarization of the **cell**, during phase 0, causes the membrane potential to approach sodium's equilibrium potential (i.e. the membrane potential at which sodium is no longer drawn into or out of the cell). As the membrane pot...
782. ...depolarization of the cell, during phase 0, causes the membrane potential to approach sodium's equilibrium potential (i.e. the membrane potential at which sodium is no longer drawn into or out of the **cell**). As the membrane potential becomes more positive, the sodium channels then close and lock, this is known as the "inactivated" state. During this state the channels cannot be opened regardless of the...
783. ...other action potential if the stimulus is stronger than a stimulus which can fire an action potential when the membrane is at rest. Gap junctions allow the action potential to be transferred from one **cell** to the next (they are said to "electrically couple" neighbouring cardiac cells). They are made from the connexin family of proteins, that form a pore through which ions (including Na, Ca and K) can p...
784. ...ally couple" neighbouring cardiac cells). They are made from the connexin family of proteins, that form a pore through which ions (including Na, Ca and K) can pass. As potassium is highest within the **cell**, it is mainly potassium that passes through. This increased potassium in the neighbour cell causes the membrane potential to increase slightly, activating the sodium channels and initiating an action...
785. ..., that form a pore through which ions (including Na, Ca and K) can pass. As potassium is highest within the cell, it is mainly potassium that passes through. This increased potassium in the neighbour **cell** causes the membrane potential to increase slightly, activating the sodium channels and initiating an action potential in this cell. (A brief chemical gradient driven efflux of Na+ through the connexo...
786. ...ssium that passes through. This increased potassium in the neighbour cell causes the membrane potential to increase slightly, activating the sodium channels and initiating an action potential in this **cell**. (A brief chemical gradient driven efflux of Na+ through the connexon at peak depolarization causes the conduction of cell to cell depolarization, not potassium.) These connections allow for the rapi...
787. ...y, activating the sodium channels and initiating an action potential in this cell. (A brief chemical gradient driven efflux of Na+ through the connexon at peak depolarization causes the conduction of **cell** to cell depolarization, not potassium.) These connections allow for the rapid conduction of the action potential throughout the heart and are responsible for allowing all of the cells in the atria to...
788. ...ating the sodium channels and initiating an action potential in this cell. (A brief chemical gradient driven efflux of Na+ through the connexon at peak depolarization causes the conduction of cell to **cell** depolarization, not potassium.) These connections allow for the rapid conduction of the action potential throughout the heart and are responsible for allowing all of the cells in the atria to contrac...
789. ...in response to different stimuli to either allow or prevent the movement of specific ions across a membrane. They are said to be selectively permeable. Stimuli, which can either come from outside the **cell** or from within the cell, can include the binding of a specific molecule to a receptor on the channel (also known as ligand-gated ion channels) or a change in membrane potential around the channel, de...
790. ...stimuli to either allow or prevent the movement of specific ions across a membrane. They are said to be selectively permeable. Stimuli, which can either come from outside the cell or from within the **cell**, can include the binding of a specific molecule to a receptor on the channel (also known as ligand-gated ion channels) or a change in membrane potential around the channel, detected by a sensor (also...
791. ...so there are Na, K, Ca, and Cl specific channels. They can also be specific for a certain charge of ions (i.e. positive or negative). Each channel is coded by a set of DNA instructions that tell the **cell** how to make it. These instructions are known as a gene. Figure 3 shows the important ion channels involved in the cardiac action potential, the current (ions) that flows through the channels, their m...
792. ...c nucleotide-gated channels (HCN channels) are located mainly in pacemaker cells, these channels become active at very negative membrane potentials and allow for the passage of both Na and K into the **cell** (which is a movement known as a funny current, I). These poorly selective, cation (positively charged ions) channels conduct more current as the membrane potential becomes more negative (hyperpolaris...
793. ...annels are voltage-dependent, opening rapidly due to depolarization of the membrane, which usually occurs from neighboring cells, through gap junctions. They allow for a rapid flow of sodium into the **cell**, depolarizing the membrane completely and initiating an action potential. As the membrane potential increases, these channels then close and lock (become inactive). Due to the rapid influx sodium ion...
794. ...period). The two main types of potassium channels in cardiac cells are inward rectifiers and voltage-gated potassium channels. Inwardly rectifying potassium channels (K favour the flow of K into the **cell**. This influx of potassium, however, is larger when the membrane potential is more negative than the equilibrium potential for K (~-90 mV). As the membrane potential becomes more positive (i.e. during...
795. ...This influx of potassium, however, is larger when the membrane potential is more negative than the equilibrium potential for K (~-90 mV). As the membrane potential becomes more positive (i.e. during **cell** stimulation from a neighbouring cell), the flow of potassium into the cell via the K decreases. Therefore, K is responsible for maintaining the resting membrane potential and initiating the depolariz...
796. ...s larger when the membrane potential is more negative than the equilibrium potential for K (~-90 mV). As the membrane potential becomes more positive (i.e. during cell stimulation from a neighbouring **cell**), the flow of potassium into the cell via the K decreases. Therefore, K is responsible for maintaining the resting membrane potential and initiating the depolarization phase. However, as the membrane...
797. ...s more negative than the equilibrium potential for K (~-90 mV). As the membrane potential becomes more positive (i.e. during cell stimulation from a neighbouring cell), the flow of potassium into the **cell** via the K decreases. Therefore, K is responsible for maintaining the resting membrane potential and initiating the depolarization phase. However, as the membrane potential continues to become more po...
798. ...the resting membrane potential and initiating the depolarization phase. However, as the membrane potential continues to become more positive, the channel begins to allow the passage of K "out" of the **cell**. This outward flow of potassium ions at the more positive membrane potentials means that the K can also aid the final stages of repolarisation. The voltage-gated potassium channels (K) are activated...
799. ...otropy), by decreasing the time to produce an action potential in the SAN. Nerves from the spinal cord release a molecule called noradrenaline, which binds to and activates receptors on the pacemaker **cell** membrane called β1 adrenoceptors. This activates a protein, called a G-protein (s for stimulatory). Activation of this G-protein leads to increased levels of cAMP in the cell (via the cAMP pathway)....
800. ...ceptors on the pacemaker cell membrane called β1 adrenoceptors. This activates a protein, called a G-protein (s for stimulatory). Activation of this G-protein leads to increased levels of cAMP in the **cell** (via the cAMP pathway). cAMP binds to the HCN channels (see above), increasing the funny current and therefore increasing the rate of depolarization, during the pacemaker potential. The increased cAM...
801. ...e called the vagus nerve, that begins in the brain and travels to the sinoatrial node, releases a molecule called acetylcholine (ACh) which binds to a receptor located on the outside of the pacemaker **cell**, called an M2 muscarinic receptor. This activates a G-protein (I for inhibitory), which is made up of 3 subunits (α, β and γ) which, when activated, separate from the receptor. The β and γ subunits a...
802. ...which is made up of 3 subunits (α, β and γ) which, when activated, separate from the receptor. The β and γ subunits activate a special set of potassium channels, increasing potassium flow out of the **cell** and decreasing membrane potential, meaning that the pacemaker cells take longer to reach their threshold value. The G-protein also inhibits the cAMP pathway therefore reducing the sympathetic effects...
803. ...son touching, even through a protective glass casing. The radio frequency field produced by plasma balls can interfere with the operation of touchpads used on laptop computers, digital audio players, **cell** phones, and other similar devices. Some types of plasma ball can radiate sufficient radio frequency interference (RFI) to interfere with cordless telephones and Wi-Fi devices several feet or some met...
804. ...been suggested as a basis for brain imaging to enable detection and monitoring of cerebral ischemia, haemorrhage, and other morphological pathologies associated with impedance changes due to neuronal **cell** swelling, i.e. cerebral hypoxemia and hypoglycemia. While EIT's maximum spatial resolution of approximately 15% of the electrode array diameter is significantly lower than that of cerebral CT or MRI...
805. ...eurons release the neurotransmitter acetylcholine; this triggers acetylcholine receptors to open and sodium ions to flow into the electrocytes. The influx of positively charged sodium ions causes the **cell** membrane to depolarize slightly. This in turn causes the gated sodium channels at the anterior end of the cell to open, and a flood of sodium ions enters the cell. Consequently, the anterior end of t...
806. ...s to flow into the electrocytes. The influx of positively charged sodium ions causes the cell membrane to depolarize slightly. This in turn causes the gated sodium channels at the anterior end of the **cell** to open, and a flood of sodium ions enters the cell. Consequently, the anterior end of the electrocyte becomes highly positive, while the posterior end, which continues to pump out sodium ions, remai...
807. ...ively charged sodium ions causes the cell membrane to depolarize slightly. This in turn causes the gated sodium channels at the anterior end of the cell to open, and a flood of sodium ions enters the **cell**. Consequently, the anterior end of the electrocyte becomes highly positive, while the posterior end, which continues to pump out sodium ions, remains negative. This sets up a potential difference (a...
808. ...of the electrocyte becomes highly positive, while the posterior end, which continues to pump out sodium ions, remains negative. This sets up a potential difference (a voltage) between the ends of the **cell**. After the voltage is released, the cell membranes go back to their resting potentials until they are triggered again. Electric organ discharges (EODs) need to vary with time for electrolocation, whe...
809. ...e, while the posterior end, which continues to pump out sodium ions, remains negative. This sets up a potential difference (a voltage) between the ends of the cell. After the voltage is released, the **cell** membranes go back to their resting potentials until they are triggered again. Electric organ discharges (EODs) need to vary with time for electrolocation, whether with pulses, as in the Mormyridae, o...
810. ...ccupational exposure. An additional safety factor of 5 is introduced for exposure of the public, giving an average whole-body SAR limit of 0.08 W/kg. The FCC guide "Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) For **Cell** Phones: What It Means For You", after detailing the limitations of SAR values, offers the following "bottom line" editorial: In order to find out possible advantages and the interaction mechanisms of...
811. ...uld have biological effect (MSBE) would be much more valuable in comparison to studying high-intensity fields. Such studies can possibly shed light on thresholds of non-ionizing radiation effects and **cell** capabilities (e.g., oxidative response). In addition, it is more likely to reduce the complexity of the EMF interaction targets in cell cultures by lowering the exposure power, which at least reduces...
812. ...shed light on thresholds of non-ionizing radiation effects and cell capabilities (e.g., oxidative response). In addition, it is more likely to reduce the complexity of the EMF interaction targets in **cell** cultures by lowering the exposure power, which at least reduces the overall rise in temperature. This parameter might differ regarding the case under study and depends on the physical and biological...
813. ...deflects the magnetization in the sensing layer. When the field tends to align the magnetizations in the sensing and fixed layers, the electrical resistance of the sensor decreases, and vice versa. A **cell** of magnetoresistive random-access memory (MRAM) has a structure similar to the spin-valve sensor. The value of the stored bits can be encoded via the magnetization direction in the sensor layer; it i...
814. ...respect to one point and an obtuse to others. If the value of the field exceeds some critical value, the latter changes its direction. There are several storage and reading methods for the described **cell**. In one method, the information is stored in the sensing layer; it is read via resistance measurement and is erased upon reading. In another scheme, the information is kept in the fixed layer, which...
815. ...Sir William Robert Grove, FRS FRSE (11 July 1811 – 1 August 1896) was a Welsh judge and physical scientist. He anticipated the general theory of the conservation of energy, and was a pioneer of fuel **cell** technology. He invented the Grove voltaic cell. Born in Swansea, Wales, Grove was the only child of John, a magistrate and deputy lieutenant of Glamorgan, and his wife, Anne (née Bevan). His early ed...
816. ...11 – 1 August 1896) was a Welsh judge and physical scientist. He anticipated the general theory of the conservation of energy, and was a pioneer of fuel cell technology. He invented the Grove voltaic **cell**. Born in Swansea, Wales, Grove was the only child of John, a magistrate and deputy lieutenant of Glamorgan, and his wife, Anne (née Bevan). His early education was in the hands of private tutors, bef...
817. ...opportunity to pursue his scientific interests and resulted in his first scientific paper suggesting some novel constructions for electric cells. During 1839, Grove developed a novel form of electric **cell**, the Grove cell, which used zinc and platinum electrodes exposed to two acids and separated by a porous ceramic pot. Grove announced the latter development to the "Académie des Sciences" in Paris in...
818. ...ursue his scientific interests and resulted in his first scientific paper suggesting some novel constructions for electric cells. During 1839, Grove developed a novel form of electric cell, the Grove **cell**, which used zinc and platinum electrodes exposed to two acids and separated by a porous ceramic pot. Grove announced the latter development to the "Académie des Sciences" in Paris in 1839. In 1840 Gr...
819. ...'s inaugural lecture in 1842 was the first announcement of what Grove called the "correlation of physical forces", in modern terms, the conservation of energy. In 1842, Grove developed the first fuel **cell** (which he called the "gas voltaic battery"), which produced electrical energy by combining hydrogen and oxygen, and described it using his correlation theory. In developing the cell and showing that...
820. ...ed the first fuel cell (which he called the "gas voltaic battery"), which produced electrical energy by combining hydrogen and oxygen, and described it using his correlation theory. In developing the **cell** and showing that steam could be disassociated into oxygen and hydrogen, and the process reversed, he was the first person to demonstrate the thermal dissociation of molecules into their constituent a...
821. ...4. Receiving a knighthood in 1872, he was given an honorary degree by Cambridge University in 1879 and became Privy Councillor in 1887. The lunar crater "Grove" is named in his honour. The Grove Fuel **Cell** Symposium and Exhibition is organised by Elsevier. Hydrogen embrittlement Hydrogen embrittlement (HE), also known as hydrogen-assisted cracking or hydrogen-induced cracking (HIC), is a reduction in t...
822. ...e-emitter junction into reverse bias, and the low static field allows remaining charge carriers to drain out of its collector-base junction. One application is so-called boxcar switching of a Pockels **cell**. Four Marx generators are used, each of the two electrodes of the Pockels cell being connected to a positive pulse generator and a negative pulse generator. Two generators of opposite polarity, one o...
823. ...charge carriers to drain out of its collector-base junction. One application is so-called boxcar switching of a Pockels cell. Four Marx generators are used, each of the two electrodes of the Pockels **cell** being connected to a positive pulse generator and a negative pulse generator. Two generators of opposite polarity, one on each electrode, are first fired to charge the Pockels cell into one polarity....
824. ...des of the Pockels cell being connected to a positive pulse generator and a negative pulse generator. Two generators of opposite polarity, one on each electrode, are first fired to charge the Pockels **cell** into one polarity. This will also partly charge the other two generators but not trigger them, because they have been only partly charged beforehand. Leakage through the Marx resistors needs to be co...
825. ...hand. Leakage through the Marx resistors needs to be compensated by a small bias current through the generator. At the trailing edge of the boxcar, the two other generators are fired to "reverse" the **cell**. Marx generators are used to provide high-voltage pulses for the testing of insulation of electrical apparatus such as large power transformers, or insulators used for supporting power transmission l...
826. ..."there is no substantive proof regarding radiation‐induced teratogenic effects from the Chernobyl accident". It is argued that the human body has defense mechanisms, such as DNA repair and programmed **cell** death, that would protect it against carcinogenesis due to low-dose exposures of carcinogens. However, these repair mechanisms are known to be error prone.  A 2011 research of the cellular repair mec...
827. ...model is only useful for regulatory purposes as it simplifies the administrative task. Quoting results from literature research, they furthermore claim that approximately 40% of laboratory studies on **cell** cultures and animals indicate some degree of chemical or radiobiological hormesis, and state: ...its existence in the laboratory is beyond question and its mechanism of action appears well understood...
828. ...the popular US and German studies have found some hormetic effects. Furthermore, particle microbeam studies show that passage of even a single alpha particle (e.g. from radon and its progeny) through **cell** nuclei is highly mutagenic, and that alpha radiation may have a higher mutagenic effect at low doses (even if a small fraction of cells are hit by alpha particles) than predicted by linear no-thresho...
829. ...ted to be −0.13 per Gy (95% CI: −0.58, 0.46)", indicating no statistically significant positive or negative relationship between background radiation levels and cancer risk in this sample. Studies in **cell** cultures can be useful for finding mechanisms for biological processes, but they also can be criticized for not effectively capturing the whole of the living organism. A study by E. I. Azzam suggeste...
830. ...t Carlsbad, New Mexico, proposed the construction of an Ultra-Low-Level Radiation laboratory. The laboratory, if built, will investigate the effects of almost "no radiation" on laboratory animals and **cell** cultures, and it will compare these groups to control groups exposed to natural radiation levels. Precautions would be made, for example, to remove potassium-40 from the food of laboratory animals. T...
831. ...firm or discard the various radiobiological effects proposed at low radiation levels e.g. LNT, threshold and radiation hormesis. The first preliminary results of the effects of almost no-radiation on **cell** cultures was reported by two research groups in 2011 and 2012; researchers in the US studied cell cultures protected from radiation in a steel chamber 650 meters underground at the Waste Isolation Pi...
832. ...eshold and radiation hormesis. The first preliminary results of the effects of almost no-radiation on cell cultures was reported by two research groups in 2011 and 2012; researchers in the US studied **cell** cultures protected from radiation in a steel chamber 650 meters underground at the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant in Carlsbad, New Mexico and researchers in Europe proposed an experiment design to study...
833. ...re their packaging and assembly is a very complicated process with many different factors. The enzyme muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) initiates signaling processes in the developing postsynaptic muscle **cell**. It stabilizes the postsynaptic acetylcholine receptor clusters, facilitates the transcription of synaptic genes by muscle fiber nuclei, and triggers differentiation of the axon growth cone to form a...
834. ...kinds of neurotransmitter vesicles exist: large dense core vesicles and small clear core vesicles. Large dense core vesicles contain neuropeptides and large neurotransmitters that are created in the **cell** body of the neuron and then transported via fast axonal transport down to the axon terminal. Small clear core vesicles transport small molecule neurotransmitters that are synthesized locally in the p...
835. ...to ligand-gated nicotinic receptors (non-selective cation channels) on the muscle fiber. This allows for increased flow of sodium and potassium ions, causing depolarization of the sarcolemma (muscle **cell** membrane).  The small depolarization associated with the release of acetylcholine from an individual synaptic vesicle is called a miniature end-plate potential (MEPP), and has a magnitude of about +0...
836. ...ed. Thomas Edison at first worked on a direct current (DC) electromechanical meter with a direct reading register, but instead developed an electrochemical metering system, which used an electrolytic **cell** to totalise current consumption. At periodic intervals the plates were removed and weighed, and the customer billed. The electrochemical meter was labor-intensive to read and not well received by cus...
837. ...N (zb-AlN) can exhibit superconductivity at high pressures. In AlN wurtzite crystal structure, Al and N alternate along the c-axis, and each bond is tetrahedrally coordinated with four atoms per unit **cell**. One of the unique intrinsic properties of wurtzite AlN is its spontaneous polarization. The origin of spontaneous polarization is the strong ionic character of chemical bonds in wurtzite AlN due to...
838. ...by means of high-energy beams of radiation. Ionization is the production of ions and free radicals which are damaging to the cells. These ions and radicals, which may be formed from the water in the **cell** or biological materials, can produce irreparable damage to DNA, proteins, and lipids, resulting in the cell's death. Thus, biological inactivation is carried out in a volume of tissue to be treated,...
839. ...e damaging to the cells. These ions and radicals, which may be formed from the water in the cell or biological materials, can produce irreparable damage to DNA, proteins, and lipids, resulting in the **cell**'s death. Thus, biological inactivation is carried out in a volume of tissue to be treated, with a precise destructive effect. The radiation dose is usually measured in grays (one gray (Gy) is the abs...
840. ...is no neutral, or three transducers when there is a neutral. Blondel's theorem states that the number of measurement elements required is one less than the number of current-carrying conductors. Dry **cell** A dry cell is a type of electric battery, commonly used for portable electrical devices. Unlike wet cell batteries, which have a liquid electrolyte, dry cells use an electrolyte in the form of a past...
841. ...ral, or three transducers when there is a neutral. Blondel's theorem states that the number of measurement elements required is one less than the number of current-carrying conductors. Dry cell A dry **cell** is a type of electric battery, commonly used for portable electrical devices. Unlike wet cell batteries, which have a liquid electrolyte, dry cells use an electrolyte in the form of a paste, and are...
842. ...measurement elements required is one less than the number of current-carrying conductors. Dry cell A dry cell is a type of electric battery, commonly used for portable electrical devices. Unlike wet **cell** batteries, which have a liquid electrolyte, dry cells use an electrolyte in the form of a paste, and are thus less susceptible to leakage. The dry cell was developed in 1886 by the German scientist C...
843. ...sed for portable electrical devices. Unlike wet cell batteries, which have a liquid electrolyte, dry cells use an electrolyte in the form of a paste, and are thus less susceptible to leakage. The dry **cell** was developed in 1886 by the German scientist Carl Gassner, after the development of wet zinc–carbon batteries by Georges Leclanché in 1866. A type of dry cell was also developed by the Japanese inve...
844. ...us less susceptible to leakage. The dry cell was developed in 1886 by the German scientist Carl Gassner, after the development of wet zinc–carbon batteries by Georges Leclanché in 1866. A type of dry **cell** was also developed by the Japanese inventor Sakizō Yai in 1887. Many experimenters tried to immobilize the electrolyte of an electrochemical cell to make it more convenient to use. The Zamboni pile o...
845. ...batteries by Georges Leclanché in 1866. A type of dry cell was also developed by the Japanese inventor Sakizō Yai in 1887. Many experimenters tried to immobilize the electrolyte of an electrochemical **cell** to make it more convenient to use. The Zamboni pile of 1812 is a high-voltage dry battery but capable of delivering only minute currents. Various experiments were made with cellulose, sawdust, spun g...
846. ...ents. Various experiments were made with cellulose, sawdust, spun glass, asbestos fibers, and gelatine. In 1886, Carl Gassner obtained a German patent (No. 37,758) on a variant of the (wet) Leclanché **cell**, which came to be known as the dry cell because it did not have a free liquid electrolyte. Instead, the ammonium chloride was mixed with Plaster of Paris to create a paste, with a small amount of zin...
847. ...cellulose, sawdust, spun glass, asbestos fibers, and gelatine. In 1886, Carl Gassner obtained a German patent (No. 37,758) on a variant of the (wet) Leclanché cell, which came to be known as the dry **cell** because it did not have a free liquid electrolyte. Instead, the ammonium chloride was mixed with Plaster of Paris to create a paste, with a small amount of zinc chloride added in to extend the shelf...
848. ...he first patent holder of a battery in Japan was not Yai, but Takahashi Ichisaburo. Wilhelm Hellesen also invented a dry-battery in 1887 and obtained in 1890. Unlike previous wet cells, Gassner's dry **cell** is more solid, does not require maintenance, does not spill, and can be used in any orientation. It provides a potential of 1.5 volts. The first mass-produced model was the Columbia dry cell, first m...
849. ...er's dry cell is more solid, does not require maintenance, does not spill, and can be used in any orientation. It provides a potential of 1.5 volts. The first mass-produced model was the Columbia dry **cell**, first marketed by the National Carbon Company in 1896. The NCC improved Gassner's model by replacing the plaster of Paris with coiled cardboard, an innovation that leaves more space for the cathode...
850. ...ion that leaves more space for the cathode and makes the battery easier to assemble. It was the first convenient battery for the masses and made portable electrical devices practical. The zinc–carbon **cell** (as it came to be known) is still manufactured today. A dry cell uses a paste electrolyte, with only enough moisture to allow current to flow. Unlike a wet cell, a dry cell can operate in any orienta...
851. ...easier to assemble. It was the first convenient battery for the masses and made portable electrical devices practical. The zinc–carbon cell (as it came to be known) is still manufactured today. A dry **cell** uses a paste electrolyte, with only enough moisture to allow current to flow. Unlike a wet cell, a dry cell can operate in any orientation without spilling, as it contains no free liquid, making it s...
852. ...cal devices practical. The zinc–carbon cell (as it came to be known) is still manufactured today. A dry cell uses a paste electrolyte, with only enough moisture to allow current to flow. Unlike a wet **cell**, a dry cell can operate in any orientation without spilling, as it contains no free liquid, making it suitable for portable equipment. By comparison, the first wet cells were typically fragile glass...
853. ...practical. The zinc–carbon cell (as it came to be known) is still manufactured today. A dry cell uses a paste electrolyte, with only enough moisture to allow current to flow. Unlike a wet cell, a dry **cell** can operate in any orientation without spilling, as it contains no free liquid, making it suitable for portable equipment. By comparison, the first wet cells were typically fragile glass containers w...
854. ...re typically fragile glass containers with lead rods hanging from the open top and needed careful handling to avoid spillage. Lead–acid batteries did not achieve the safety and portability of the dry **cell** until the development of the gel battery. Wet cells have continued to be used for high-drain applications, such as starting internal combustion engines, because inhibiting the electrolyte flow tends...
855. ...cells have continued to be used for high-drain applications, such as starting internal combustion engines, because inhibiting the electrolyte flow tends to reduce the current capability. A common dry **cell** is the zinc–carbon cell, sometimes called the dry Leclanché cell, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline cell (since both use the same zinc–manganese dioxide combination). A st...
856. ...be used for high-drain applications, such as starting internal combustion engines, because inhibiting the electrolyte flow tends to reduce the current capability. A common dry cell is the zinc–carbon **cell**, sometimes called the dry Leclanché cell, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline cell (since both use the same zinc–manganese dioxide combination). A standard dry cell comprise...
857. ...as starting internal combustion engines, because inhibiting the electrolyte flow tends to reduce the current capability. A common dry cell is the zinc–carbon cell, sometimes called the dry Leclanché **cell**, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline cell (since both use the same zinc–manganese dioxide combination). A standard dry cell comprises a zinc anode, usually in the form of a...
858. ...ctrolyte flow tends to reduce the current capability. A common dry cell is the zinc–carbon cell, sometimes called the dry Leclanché cell, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline **cell** (since both use the same zinc–manganese dioxide combination). A standard dry cell comprises a zinc anode, usually in the form of a cylindrical pot, with a carbon cathode in the form of a central rod....
859. ...c–carbon cell, sometimes called the dry Leclanché cell, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline cell (since both use the same zinc–manganese dioxide combination). A standard dry **cell** comprises a zinc anode, usually in the form of a cylindrical pot, with a carbon cathode in the form of a central rod. The electrolyte is ammonium chloride in the form of a paste next to the zinc anod...
860. ...ing as a depolariser. In some designs, often marketed as "heavy duty", the ammonium chloride is replaced with zinc chloride. Primary cells are not rechargeable and are generally disposed of after the **cell**'s internal reaction has consumed the reactive starting chemicals. Secondary cells are rechargeable, and may be reused multiple times. Water potential Water potential is the potential energy of water...
861. ...is not restricted, water will move from an area of higher water potential to an area that is lower potential. A common example is water with dissolved salts, such as seawater or the fluid in a living **cell**. These solutions have negative water potential, relative to the pure water reference. With no restriction on flow, water will move from the locus of greater potential (pure water) to the locus of les...
862. ...r at the soil surface. Pressure potential is based on mechanical pressure and is an important component of the total water potential within plant cells. Pressure potential increases as water enters a **cell**. As water passes through the cell wall and cell membrane, it increases the total amount of water present inside the cell, which exerts an outward pressure that is opposed by the structural rigidity o...
863. ...tential is based on mechanical pressure and is an important component of the total water potential within plant cells. Pressure potential increases as water enters a cell. As water passes through the **cell** wall and cell membrane, it increases the total amount of water present inside the cell, which exerts an outward pressure that is opposed by the structural rigidity of the cell wall. By creating this...
864. ...ed on mechanical pressure and is an important component of the total water potential within plant cells. Pressure potential increases as water enters a cell. As water passes through the cell wall and **cell** membrane, it increases the total amount of water present inside the cell, which exerts an outward pressure that is opposed by the structural rigidity of the cell wall. By creating this pressure, the...
865. ...r potential within plant cells. Pressure potential increases as water enters a cell. As water passes through the cell wall and cell membrane, it increases the total amount of water present inside the **cell**, which exerts an outward pressure that is opposed by the structural rigidity of the cell wall. By creating this pressure, the plant can maintain turgor, which allows the plant to keep its rigidity. W...
866. ...ater passes through the cell wall and cell membrane, it increases the total amount of water present inside the cell, which exerts an outward pressure that is opposed by the structural rigidity of the **cell** wall. By creating this pressure, the plant can maintain turgor, which allows the plant to keep its rigidity. Without turgor, plants will lose structure and wilt. The pressure potential in a plant cel...
867. ...ell wall. By creating this pressure, the plant can maintain turgor, which allows the plant to keep its rigidity. Without turgor, plants will lose structure and wilt. The pressure potential in a plant **cell** is usually positive. In plasmolysed cells, pressure potential is almost zero. Negative pressure potentials occur when water is pulled through an open system such as a plant xylem vessel. Withstanding...
868. ...than that of pure water. Furthermore, the more solute molecules present, the more negative the solute potential is. Osmotic potential has important implications for many living organisms. If a living **cell** is surrounded by a more concentrated solution, the cell will tend to lose water to the more negative water potential (formula_14) of the surrounding environment. This can be the case for marine organ...
869. ...lecules present, the more negative the solute potential is. Osmotic potential has important implications for many living organisms. If a living cell is surrounded by a more concentrated solution, the **cell** will tend to lose water to the more negative water potential (formula_14) of the surrounding environment. This can be the case for marine organisms living in sea water and halophytic plants growing i...
870. ...water potential (formula_14) of the surrounding environment. This can be the case for marine organisms living in sea water and halophytic plants growing in saline environments. In the case of a plant **cell**, the flow of water out of the cell may eventually cause the plasma membrane to pull away from the cell wall, leading to plasmolysis. Most plants, however, have the ability to increase solute inside t...
871. ...surrounding environment. This can be the case for marine organisms living in sea water and halophytic plants growing in saline environments. In the case of a plant cell, the flow of water out of the **cell** may eventually cause the plasma membrane to pull away from the cell wall, leading to plasmolysis. Most plants, however, have the ability to increase solute inside the cell to drive the flow of water...
872. ...living in sea water and halophytic plants growing in saline environments. In the case of a plant cell, the flow of water out of the cell may eventually cause the plasma membrane to pull away from the **cell** wall, leading to plasmolysis. Most plants, however, have the ability to increase solute inside the cell to drive the flow of water into the cell and maintain turgor. This effect can be used to power...
873. ...he flow of water out of the cell may eventually cause the plasma membrane to pull away from the cell wall, leading to plasmolysis. Most plants, however, have the ability to increase solute inside the **cell** to drive the flow of water into the cell and maintain turgor. This effect can be used to power an osmotic power plant. A soil solution also experiences osmotic potential. The osmotic potential is mad...
874. ...tually cause the plasma membrane to pull away from the cell wall, leading to plasmolysis. Most plants, however, have the ability to increase solute inside the cell to drive the flow of water into the **cell** and maintain turgor. This effect can be used to power an osmotic power plant. A soil solution also experiences osmotic potential. The osmotic potential is made possible due to the presence of both in...
875. ...ive index. The polarizability of an atom or molecule is defined as the ratio of its induced dipole moment to the local electric field; in a crystalline solid, one considers the dipole moment per unit **cell**. Note that the local electric field seen by a molecule is generally different from the macroscopic electric field that would be measured externally. This discrepancy is taken into account by the Clau...
876. ...he falling phase of an action potential. The ions pass through the selectivity filter of the K channel pore. Repolarization typically results from the movement of positively charged K ions out of the **cell**. The repolarization phase of an action potential initially results in hyperpolarization, attainment of a membrane potential, termed the afterhyperpolarization, that is more negative than the resting...
877. ..., termed the afterhyperpolarization, that is more negative than the resting potential. Repolarization usually takes several milliseconds. Repolarization is a stage of an action potential in which the **cell** experiences a decrease of voltage due to the efflux of potassium (K) ions along its electrochemical gradient. This phase occurs after the cell reaches its highest voltage from depolarization. After r...
878. ...arization is a stage of an action potential in which the cell experiences a decrease of voltage due to the efflux of potassium (K) ions along its electrochemical gradient. This phase occurs after the **cell** reaches its highest voltage from depolarization. After repolarization, the cell hyperpolarizes as it reaches resting membrane potential (−70 mV in neuron). Sodium (Na) and potassium ions inside and o...
879. ...ease of voltage due to the efflux of potassium (K) ions along its electrochemical gradient. This phase occurs after the cell reaches its highest voltage from depolarization. After repolarization, the **cell** hyperpolarizes as it reaches resting membrane potential (−70 mV in neuron). Sodium (Na) and potassium ions inside and outside the cell are moved by a sodium potassium pump, ensuring that electrochemi...
880. ...s highest voltage from depolarization. After repolarization, the cell hyperpolarizes as it reaches resting membrane potential (−70 mV in neuron). Sodium (Na) and potassium ions inside and outside the **cell** are moved by a sodium potassium pump, ensuring that electrochemical equilibrium remains unreached to allow the cell to maintain a state of resting membrane potential. In the graph of an action potent...
881. ...potential (−70 mV in neuron). Sodium (Na) and potassium ions inside and outside the cell are moved by a sodium potassium pump, ensuring that electrochemical equilibrium remains unreached to allow the **cell** to maintain a state of resting membrane potential. In the graph of an action potential, the hyper-polarization section looks like a downward dip that goes lower than the line of resting membrane pote...
882. ...ph of an action potential, the hyper-polarization section looks like a downward dip that goes lower than the line of resting membrane potential. In this afterhyperpolarization (the downward dip), the **cell** sits at more negative potential than rest (about −80 mV) due to the slow inactivation of voltage gated K delayed rectifier channels, which are the primary K channels associated with repolarization. A...
883. ...inactivation of voltage gated K delayed rectifier channels, which are the primary K channels associated with repolarization. At these low voltages, all of the voltage gated K channels close, and the **cell** returns to resting potential within a few milliseconds. A cell which is experiencing repolarization is said to be in its absolute refractory period. Other voltage gated K channels which contribute to...
884. ...ich are the primary K channels associated with repolarization. At these low voltages, all of the voltage gated K channels close, and the cell returns to resting potential within a few milliseconds. A **cell** which is experiencing repolarization is said to be in its absolute refractory period. Other voltage gated K channels which contribute to repolarization include A-type channels and Ca-activated K chan...
885. ...refractory period. Other voltage gated K channels which contribute to repolarization include A-type channels and Ca-activated K channels. Protein transport molecules are responsible for Na out of the **cell** and K into the cell to restore the original resting ion concentrations. Blockages in repolarization can arise due to modifications of the voltage-gated K channels. This is demonstrated with selective...
886. ...ther voltage gated K channels which contribute to repolarization include A-type channels and Ca-activated K channels. Protein transport molecules are responsible for Na out of the cell and K into the **cell** to restore the original resting ion concentrations. Blockages in repolarization can arise due to modifications of the voltage-gated K channels. This is demonstrated with selectively blocking voltage...
887. ...influx of Na decreases (channels deinactivate) and the efflux of K ions increases as its channels open. The decreased conductance of sodium ions and increased conductance of potassium ions cause the **cell**'s membrane potential to very quickly return to, and past the resting membrane potential, which causes the hyperpolarization due to the potassium channels closing slowly, allowing more potassium to fl...
888. ...period of repolarization in which the Na channels are inactivated while K channels are activated. Further study of K channels shows that there are four types which influence the repolarization of the **cell** membrane to re-establish the resting potential. The four types are K1, K2, K3 and K4. The K1 channel primarily influences the repolarization of the axon. The K2 channel is characteristically activate...
889. ...ial becomes broader, resulting in an extended repolarization period, delaying the neuron from being able to fire again. The rate of repolarization closely regulates the amount of Ca ions entering the **cell**. When large quantities of Ca ions enter the cell due to extended repolarization periods, the neuron may die, leading to the development of stroke or seizures. The K1 channels are found to contribute...
890. ...olarization period, delaying the neuron from being able to fire again. The rate of repolarization closely regulates the amount of Ca ions entering the cell. When large quantities of Ca ions enter the **cell** due to extended repolarization periods, the neuron may die, leading to the development of stroke or seizures. The K1 channels are found to contribute to repolarization of pyramidal neurons, likely as...
891. ...when Ca binds to calmodulin (CaM) because the N-lobe of CaM interacts with the channel's S4/S5 linker to induce conformational change. When these K channels are activated, the K ions rush out of the **cell** during the peak of its action potential causing the cell to repolarize as the influx of Ca ions are exceeded by K ions leaving the cell continuously. In the human ventricles, repolarization can be se...
892. ...CaM interacts with the channel's S4/S5 linker to induce conformational change. When these K channels are activated, the K ions rush out of the cell during the peak of its action potential causing the **cell** to repolarize as the influx of Ca ions are exceeded by K ions leaving the cell continuously. In the human ventricles, repolarization can be seen on an ECG (electrocardiogram) via the J-wave (Osborn),...
893. ...When these K channels are activated, the K ions rush out of the cell during the peak of its action potential causing the cell to repolarize as the influx of Ca ions are exceeded by K ions leaving the **cell** continuously. In the human ventricles, repolarization can be seen on an ECG (electrocardiogram) via the J-wave (Osborn), ST segment, T wave and U wave. Due to the complexity of the heart, specificall...
894. ...he phenomenon was first discovered by Eduard Pflüger. The electrotonic potential travels via electrotonic spread, which amounts to attraction of opposite and repulsion of like-charged ions within the **cell**. Electrotonic potentials can sum spatially or temporally. Spatial summation is the combination of multiple sources of ion influx (multiple channels within a dendrite, or channels within multiple dend...
895. ...r they can depolarize the membrane sufficiently to push it above the threshold potential, which will then cause an action potential to occur. EPSPs are often caused by either Na or Ca coming into the **cell**. Electrotonic potentials which decrease the membrane potential are called inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs). They hyperpolarize the membrane and make it harder for a cell to have an action p...
896. ...Ca coming into the cell. Electrotonic potentials which decrease the membrane potential are called inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs). They hyperpolarize the membrane and make it harder for a **cell** to have an action potential. IPSPs are associated with Cl entering the cell or K leaving the cell. IPSPs can interact with EPSPs to "cancel out" their effect. Because of the continuously varying natu...
897. ...e potential are called inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs). They hyperpolarize the membrane and make it harder for a cell to have an action potential. IPSPs are associated with Cl entering the **cell** or K leaving the cell. IPSPs can interact with EPSPs to "cancel out" their effect. Because of the continuously varying nature of the electrotonic potential versus the binary response of the action po...
898. ...inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs). They hyperpolarize the membrane and make it harder for a cell to have an action potential. IPSPs are associated with Cl entering the cell or K leaving the **cell**. IPSPs can interact with EPSPs to "cancel out" their effect. Because of the continuously varying nature of the electrotonic potential versus the binary response of the action potential, this creates...
899. ...earest to the antenna can absorb this energy and convert it to heat. Since at least the 1990s, scientists have researched whether the now-ubiquitous radiation associated with mobile phone antennas or **cell** phone towers is affecting human health. Mobile phone networks use various bands of RF radiation, some of which overlap with the microwave range. Other digital wireless systems, such as data communica...
900. ...effects of Radio-frequency energy exposure". A mobile phone connects to the telephone network by radio waves exchanged with a local antenna and automated transceiver called a cellular base station ("**cell** site" or "cell tower"). The service area served by each provider is divided into small geographical areas called "cells", and all the phones in a cell communicate with that cell's antenna. Both the p...
901. ...io-frequency energy exposure". A mobile phone connects to the telephone network by radio waves exchanged with a local antenna and automated transceiver called a cellular base station ("cell site" or "**cell** tower"). The service area served by each provider is divided into small geographical areas called "cells", and all the phones in a cell communicate with that cell's antenna. Both the phone and the to...
902. ...ted transceiver called a cellular base station ("cell site" or "cell tower"). The service area served by each provider is divided into small geographical areas called "cells", and all the phones in a **cell** communicate with that cell's antenna. Both the phone and the tower have radio transmitters which communicate with each other. Since in a cellular network the same radio channels are reused every few...
903. ...llular base station ("cell site" or "cell tower"). The service area served by each provider is divided into small geographical areas called "cells", and all the phones in a cell communicate with that **cell**'s antenna. Both the phone and the tower have radio transmitters which communicate with each other. Since in a cellular network the same radio channels are reused every few cells, cellular networks us...
904. ...nsmitters which communicate with each other. Since in a cellular network the same radio channels are reused every few cells, cellular networks use low power transmitters to avoid radio waves from one **cell** spilling over and interfering with a nearby cell using the same frequencies. Mobile phones are limited to an effective isotropic radiated power (EIRP) output of 3 watts, and the network continuously...
905. ...e in a cellular network the same radio channels are reused every few cells, cellular networks use low power transmitters to avoid radio waves from one cell spilling over and interfering with a nearby **cell** using the same frequencies. Mobile phones are limited to an effective isotropic radiated power (EIRP) output of 3 watts, and the network continuously adjusts the phone transmitter to the lowest power...
906. ...ower (EIRP) output of 3 watts, and the network continuously adjusts the phone transmitter to the lowest power consistent with good signal quality, reducing it to as low as one milliwatt when near the **cell** tower. Tower channel transmitters usually have an EIRP power output of around 50 watts. Even when it is not being used, unless it is turned off, a mobile phone periodically emits radio signals on its...
907. ...have an EIRP power output of around 50 watts. Even when it is not being used, unless it is turned off, a mobile phone periodically emits radio signals on its control channel, to keep contact with its **cell** tower and for functions like handing off the phone to another tower if the user crosses into another cell. When the user is making a call, the phone transmits a signal on a second channel which carri...
908. ...obile phone periodically emits radio signals on its control channel, to keep contact with its cell tower and for functions like handing off the phone to another tower if the user crosses into another **cell**. When the user is making a call, the phone transmits a signal on a second channel which carries the user's voice. Existing 2G, 3G, and 4G networks use frequencies in the UHF or low microwave bands, 6...
909. ...limetre wave band, 24 to 52 GHz. Millimetre waves are absorbed by atmospheric gases so 5G networks will use smaller cells than previous cellular networks, about the size of a city block. Instead of a **cell** tower, each cell will use an array of multiple small antennas mounted on existing buildings and utility poles. In general, millimetre waves penetrate less deeply into biological tissue than microwave...
910. ..., 24 to 52 GHz. Millimetre waves are absorbed by atmospheric gases so 5G networks will use smaller cells than previous cellular networks, about the size of a city block. Instead of a cell tower, each **cell** will use an array of multiple small antennas mounted on existing buildings and utility poles. In general, millimetre waves penetrate less deeply into biological tissue than microwaves, and are mainly...
911. ...rons, whose bodyguard Ian Nottingham is implied to be his son. In the television series, it turns out that while Ian, via Kenneth's experiments, is also related to Sara, Ian was created from the stem **cell** of Elizabeth Brontë, a former wielder from Sara's bloodline (possibly her biological grandmother) and it is implied that they could be genetically related. Ian is obsessed with Sara, but his erratic...
912. ...Electrokinesis" has also been observed in biology, where it was found to cause physical damage to neurons by inciting movement in their membranes. It is discussed in R. J. Elul's "Fixed charge in the **cell** membrane" (1967). In October 2003, Dr. Daniel Kwok, Dr. Larry Kostiuk and two graduate students from the University of Alberta discussed a method to convert hydrodynamic to electrical energy by explo...
913. ...confidence ranges reported by the IPCC. Reference electrode A reference electrode is an electrode that has a stable and well-known electrode potential. The overall chemical reaction taking place in a **cell** is made up of two independent half-reactions, which describe chemical changes at the two electrodes. To focus on the reaction at the working electrode, the reference electrode is standardized with co...
914. ...ant (buffered or saturated) concentrations of each participant of the redox reaction. There are many ways reference electrodes are used. The simplest is when the reference electrode is used as a half-**cell** to build an electrochemical cell. This allows the potential of the other half cell to be determined. An accurate and practical method to measure an electrode's potential in isolation (absolute electr...
915. ...ntrations of each participant of the redox reaction. There are many ways reference electrodes are used. The simplest is when the reference electrode is used as a half-cell to build an electrochemical **cell**. This allows the potential of the other half cell to be determined. An accurate and practical method to measure an electrode's potential in isolation (absolute electrode potential) has yet to be deve...
916. ...n. There are many ways reference electrodes are used. The simplest is when the reference electrode is used as a half-cell to build an electrochemical cell. This allows the potential of the other half **cell** to be determined. An accurate and practical method to measure an electrode's potential in isolation (absolute electrode potential) has yet to be developed. Common reference electrodes and potential w...
917. ...eous electrodes as references with nonaqueous solutions the long-term results are not trustworthy. Using aqueous electrodes introduces undefined, variable, and unmeasurable junction potentials to the **cell** in the form of a liquid-liquid junction as well as different ionic composition between the reference compartment and the rest of the cell. The best argument against using aqueous reference electrodes...
918. ...efined, variable, and unmeasurable junction potentials to the cell in the form of a liquid-liquid junction as well as different ionic composition between the reference compartment and the rest of the **cell**. The best argument against using aqueous reference electrodes with nonaqueous systems, as mentioned earlier, is that potentials measured in different solvents are not directly comparable. For instanc...
919. ...sharing tetrahedral lattice with spins fixed along the local quantization axis, the <111> cubic axes, which coincide with the lines connecting each tetrahedral vertex to the center. Every tetrahedral **cell** must have two spins pointing in and two pointing out in order to minimize the energy. Currently the spin ice model has been approximately realized by real materials, most notably the rare earth pyroc...
920. ...re radius "r" ("l" ≈ 1.05"r"). There is a solution with regular tetrahedra if the space is not Euclidean, but spherical. It is the polytope {3,3,5}, using the Schläfli notation, also known as the 600-**cell**. There are one hundred and twenty vertices which all belong to the hypersphere "S" with radius equal to the golden ratio ("φ" = ) if the edges are of unit length. The six hundred cells are regular te...
921. ...esigned for pH measurements on very small volumes of fluid, or for direct measurements in geochemical micro-environments, or in biochemical studies such as for determining the electrical potential of **cell** membrane. Heavy duty electrodes withstanding several tens of bar of hydraulic pressure also allow measurements in water wells in deep aquifers, or to directly determine "in situ" the pH of pore water...
922. ...of two distinct types of electrodes as one unit which combines both the glass electrode and the reference electrode into one body. It deserves some explanation. This device is essentially a galvanic **cell** that can be schematically represented as: The double "pipe symbols" (||) indicate diffusive barriers – the glass membrane and the ceramic junction. The barriers prevent (glass membrane), or slow down...
923. ...lass membrane and the ceramic junction. The barriers prevent (glass membrane), or slow down (ceramic junction), the mixing of the different solutions. In this schematic representation of the galvanic **cell**, one will note the symmetry between the left and the right members as seen from the center of the row occupied by the "Test Solution" (the solution whose pH must be measured). In other words, the gla...
924. ...ll efficiency. Practical MHD generators were been developed for fossil fuels, but these were overtaken by less expensive combined cycles in which the exhaust of a gas turbine or molten carbonate fuel **cell** heats steam to power a steam turbine. MHD dynamos are the complement of MHD accelerators, which have been applied to pump liquid metals, seawater, and plasmas. Natural MHD dynamos are an active area...
925. ...copper–copper sulfate electrode is +0.314 volt with respect to the standard hydrogen electrode. Copper–copper(II) sulfate electrode is also used as one of the half cells in the galvanic Daniel-Jakobi **cell**. Proper orthogonal decomposition The proper orthogonal decomposition is a numerical method that enables a reduction in the complexity of computer intensive simulations such as computational fluid dyn...
926. ...c mansion on Long Island. There he captured the Torch with ease by pretending to take a three-dimensional photo, but really squirting a liquid onto the Torch. The Torch was then locked in an asbestos **cell** at gunpoint. The Wizard impersonated the Torch, launching a crime spree to destroy the Torch's reputation. However, the Torch escaped and with help from the Invisible Girl, got photos showing the Wiz...
927. ...or the remaining members of Intelligencia. Wizard was the first to be apprehended by Lyra and She-Hulk, brought to Bruce Banner, and imprisoned. Wizard managed to escape from Bruce Banner's detention **cell** and attacked Lyra during her prom. His surprise attack had Lyra on the defensive until She-Hulk arrived and defeated Wizard with his own weapons. He is committed to the P.A.V.L.O.V. Metahuman Psychia...
928. ...pe can only have a single value of pressure. For this reason there is no hydraulic explanation for such things as a battery's charge pumping ability, a diode's depletion layer and voltage drop, solar **cell** functions, Peltier effect, etc., however equivalent devices can be designed which exhibit similar responses, although some of the mechanisms would only serve to regulate the flow curves rather than t...
929. ...that if a population of cells are given a dose before being set aside (without being irradiated) for a length of time before being irradiated again then the radiation has less of an ability to cause **cell** death. The human body contains many types of cells and a human can be killed by the loss of a single tissue in a vital organ. For many short term radiation deaths (3 days to 30 days) the loss of cell...
930. ...ioresistance for one species among experiments, due to the way radiation affects living tissues and to different experimental conditions. We should for example consider that because radiation impedes **cell** division, immature organisms are less resistant to radiations than adults, and adults are sterilized at doses much lower than that necessary to kill them. For example, for the insect parasitoid "Habr...
931. ...ch system's design, although they are most commonly activated during brief electric utility outages lasting only seconds. Battery rooms were used to segregate the fumes and corrosive chemicals of wet **cell** batteries (often lead–acid) from the operating equipment, and for better control of temperature and ventilation. In 1890, the Western Union central telegraph office in New York City had 20,000 wet ce...
932. ...requiring the use of a multimeter to find the point of failure. In photovoltaics, the term is widely used to describe an unwanted short circuit between the front and back surface contacts of a solar **cell**, usually caused by wafer damage. A gas-filled tube can also be used as a shunt, particularly in a lightning arrester. Neon, like other noble gases, has a high breakdown voltage, so that normally curr...
933. ...rch has shown that magnetosomes are invaginations of the inner membrane and not freestanding vesicles. Magnetite-bearing magnetosomes have also been found in eukaryotic magnetotactic algae, with each **cell** containing several thousand crystals. Overall, magnetosome crystals have high chemical purity, narrow size ranges, species-specific crystal morphologies and exhibit specific arrangements within the c...
934. ...l containing several thousand crystals. Overall, magnetosome crystals have high chemical purity, narrow size ranges, species-specific crystal morphologies and exhibit specific arrangements within the **cell**. These features indicate that the formation of magnetosomes is under precise biological control and is mediated biomineralization. Magnetotactic bacteria usually mineralize either iron oxide magnetos...
935. ...etic iron mineral, which is enveloped by a lipid bilayer membrane. In the cells of most all magnetotactic bacteria, magnetosomes are organized as well-ordered chains. The magnetosome chain causes the **cell** to behave as a motile, miniature compass needle where the cell aligns and swims parallel to magnetic field lines. The magnetic dipole moment of the cell is often large enough that its interaction wit...
936. ...ne. In the cells of most all magnetotactic bacteria, magnetosomes are organized as well-ordered chains. The magnetosome chain causes the cell to behave as a motile, miniature compass needle where the **cell** aligns and swims parallel to magnetic field lines. The magnetic dipole moment of the cell is often large enough that its interaction with Earth’s magnetic field overcomes the thermal forces that tend...
937. ...dered chains. The magnetosome chain causes the cell to behave as a motile, miniature compass needle where the cell aligns and swims parallel to magnetic field lines. The magnetic dipole moment of the **cell** is often large enough that its interaction with Earth’s magnetic field overcomes the thermal forces that tend to randomize the orientation of the cell in its aqueous surroundings. Magnetotactic bacte...
938. ...c field lines. The magnetic dipole moment of the cell is often large enough that its interaction with Earth’s magnetic field overcomes the thermal forces that tend to randomize the orientation of the **cell** in its aqueous surroundings. Magnetotactic bacteria use aerotaxis as well. Aerotaxis is a response to changes in oxygen concentration that will favor swimming towards a zone of optimal oxygen concent...
939. ...hat observed in bacterial cells, although no evidence is provided. The difference between bacterial magnetosomes and human magnetosomes appears to be the number of magnetite particles synthesized per **cell**, the clustering of those particles within each respective organism, and the purpose of each magnetosome. A species of magnetosomic bacterial cell may have 20 magnetic particles arranged linearly in a...
940. ...be the number of magnetite particles synthesized per cell, the clustering of those particles within each respective organism, and the purpose of each magnetosome. A species of magnetosomic bacterial **cell** may have 20 magnetic particles arranged linearly in an organelle for each member of the species. A human may have between 1000 and 10000 magnetic particles arranged in a cluster within an organelle w...
941. ...magnetic particles arranged linearly in an organelle for each member of the species. A human may have between 1000 and 10000 magnetic particles arranged in a cluster within an organelle with only one **cell** in 5000 having said organelle. Finally, the human magnetosomic organelle has an unknown function that does not involve detecting the earth's magnetic field. Magnetotactic bacteria use a process known...
942. ...ered chain they increase significantly in strength. There is another set of acidic proteins in the magnetosome that are used to create a link between the vesicle and the cytoskeletal structure in the **cell** to help the magnetosome hold shape. Magnetite crystals are encased in the magnetosome giving the MTB its magnetic properties. These crystals can either be made of iron oxide or sulfide. The MTB may e...
943. ...deal. A reported example includes large magnetosomes (up to 200 nanometers) found in coccoid cells in Brazil. These cells contain enough magnetosomes that the calculated magnetic dipole moment of the **cell** is about 250 times larger than that of a typical Magnetospirillum magnetotacticum. Some bacteria have magnetosomes that are not arranged in chains, but the magnetosomes are clustered on one side of t...
944. ...about 250 times larger than that of a typical Magnetospirillum magnetotacticum. Some bacteria have magnetosomes that are not arranged in chains, but the magnetosomes are clustered on one side of the **cell**. In this arrangement, the shape anisotropy of each crystal provides the stability against remagnetization, rather than the overall shape anisotropy in the magnetosome chain arrangement. These non-ide...
945. ...r, as well as the linearity and the connection to the cytoskeleton. With how much the geometries effect the stabilization of the chains of magnetosomes shows that they are intrinsically unstable. The **cell** wall and associated membrane structures have been thought to act to prevent magnetosome chain collapse. There has been data collected that indicates that magnetosome linearity persists long after cel...
946. ...en data collected that indicates that magnetosome linearity persists long after cells are disrupted. Consistent with prior observations, in some magnetococcus, the magnetosome chains pass through the **cell** interior, precluding continuous contact with the cell wall and imply additional support structures exist in some species. List of fusion experiments Experiments directed toward developing fusion powe...
947. ...arity persists long after cells are disrupted. Consistent with prior observations, in some magnetococcus, the magnetosome chains pass through the cell interior, precluding continuous contact with the **cell** wall and imply additional support structures exist in some species. List of fusion experiments Experiments directed toward developing fusion power are invariably done with dedicated machines which ca...
948. ...ory developed by Mulliken and Hund. Ionophore In chemistry, an ionophore () is a chemical species that reversibly binds ions. Many ionophores are lipid-soluble entities that transport ions across the **cell** membrane. Ionophores catalyze ion transport across hydrophobic membranes, such as liquid polymeric membranes (carrier-based ion selective electrodes) or lipid bilayers found in the living cells or sy...
949. ...y increasing the metal concentration, it is classified as a "metal chelator". If the biological effect is not affected by increasing the metal concentration, and the compound-metal complex enters the **cell**, it is classified as a "metal shuttle". The term ionophore (from Greek "ion carrier" or "ion bearer") was proposed by Berton Pressman in 1967 when he and his colleagues were investigating the antibio...
950. ...ne-spanning ionophores have also been synthesized.  The two broad classifications of ionophores synthesized by microorganisms are: Ionophores that transport hydrogen ions (H, i.e. protons) across the **cell** membrane are called protonophores. Iron ionophores and chelating agents are collectively called siderophores. Many synthetic ionophores are based on crown ethers, cryptands, and calixarenes. Pyrazole...
951. ...complex enhances its permeability through lipophilic membranes. The hydrophobicity and hydrophilicity of the complex also determines whether it will slow down or ease the transport of metal ions into **cell** compartments. The reduction potential of a metal complex influences its thermodynamic stability and affects its reactivity. The ability of an ionophore to transfer ions is also affected by the temper...
952. ...l of a metal complex influences its thermodynamic stability and affects its reactivity. The ability of an ionophore to transfer ions is also affected by the temperature. Ionophores are widely used in **cell** physiology experiments and biotechnology as these compounds can effectively perturb gradients of ions across biological membranes and thus they can modulate or enhance the role of key ions in the cel...
953. ...ell physiology experiments and biotechnology as these compounds can effectively perturb gradients of ions across biological membranes and thus they can modulate or enhance the role of key ions in the **cell**. Many ionophores have shown antibacterial and antifungal activities. Some of them also act against insects, pests and parasites. Some ionophores have been introduced into medicinal products for derma...
954. ...statin, natamycin and amphotericin B, are a subgroup of macrolides and are widely used antifungal and antileishmanial medications. These drugs act as ionophores by binding to ergosterol in the fungal **cell** membrane and making it leaky and permeable for K and Na ions, as a result contributing to fungal cell death. Carboxylic ionophores, i.e. monensin, lasalocid, salinomycin, narasin, maduramicin, semdur...
955. ...antileishmanial medications. These drugs act as ionophores by binding to ergosterol in the fungal cell membrane and making it leaky and permeable for K and Na ions, as a result contributing to fungal **cell** death. Carboxylic ionophores, i.e. monensin, lasalocid, salinomycin, narasin, maduramicin, semduramycin and laidlomycin, are marketed globally and widely used as anticoccidial feed additives to preve...
956. ...ilibrium is between the solid (s) silver metal (Ag(s)) and its solid salt—silver chloride (AgCl(s), also called silver(I) chloride) in a chloride solution of a given concentration. In electrochemical **cell** notation, the silver chloride electrode is written as, "e.g.", for an electrolyte solution of KCl 3 M: The corresponding half-reaction can be presented as follows: Which is a summary of these two rea...
957. ...e the electron current passes through the electrical wire connected to the measuring instrument. When there is an uneven distribution of cations and anions, there will be a small voltage called "half-**cell** potential" associated with the current. In the direct current (DC) system that is used by the ECG and EEG instruments, the difference between the half-cell potential and the zero potential is shown a...
958. ...there will be a small voltage called "half-cell potential" associated with the current. In the direct current (DC) system that is used by the ECG and EEG instruments, the difference between the half-**cell** potential and the zero potential is shown as DC offset which is an undesirable characteristic. Silver/silver chloride is a common choice of biological electrodes due to its low half-cell potential of...
959. ...een the half-cell potential and the zero potential is shown as DC offset which is an undesirable characteristic. Silver/silver chloride is a common choice of biological electrodes due to its low half-**cell** potential of about +222 mV (SHE), low impedance, with a toxicity lower than that of the calomel electrode containing mercury. When appropriately constructed, the silver chloride electrode can be used...
960. ...limited to nearest-neighbor coupling since a physical electrical circuit must be laid out between connected qubits. Notably, D-Wave Systems' nearest-neighbor coupling achieves a highly connected unit **cell** of 8 qubits in Chimera graph configuration. Quantum algorithms typically require coupling between arbitrary qubits. Consequently, multiple swap operations are necessary, limiting the length of quantu...
961. ...-speed (zero RPM) loading or to motor the engine - for starting or motoring (downhill simulation). Since they do not actually absorb energy, provisions to transfer their radiated heat out of the test **cell** area must be provided. Either a high-volume air-ventilation or water-to-air heat exchanger adds additional cost and complexity. In contrast, high-end AC-motor dynamometers cleanly return the engine's...
962. ...issipation properties. EIS examines them. This technique has grown tremendously in stature over the past few years and is now being widely employed in a wide variety of scientific fields such as fuel **cell** testing, biomolecular interaction, and microstructural characterization. Often, EIS reveals information about the reaction mechanism of an electrochemical process: different reaction steps will domin...
963. ...nsity and formula_5 and formula_6 are the symmetry factors. The curve formula_7 vs. formula_8 is not a straight line (Fig. 1), therefore a redox reaction is not a linear system. In an electrochemical **cell** the faradaic impedance of an electrolyte-electrode interface is the joint electrical resistance and capacitance at that interface. Let us suppose that the Butler-Volmer relationship correctly describ...
964. ...onal domain is simply the physical region over which the simulation will be performed. The E and H fields are determined at every point in space within that computational domain. The material of each **cell** within the computational domain must be specified. Typically, the material is either free-space (air), metal, or dielectric. Any material can be used as long as the permeability, permittivity, and co...
965. ...eagents have been developed to attach "spin labels", also called "spin probes", to molecules of interest. Specially-designed nonreactive radical molecules can attach to specific sites in a biological **cell**, and EPR spectra then give information on the environment of the spin labels. Spin-labeled fatty acids have been extensively used to study dynamic organisation of lipids in biological membranes, lipi...
966. ...years, EPR has also been used within the context of electrochemistry to study redox-flow reactions and batteries. Because of the in situ possibilities, it is possible to construct an electrochemical **cell** inside the EPR instrument and capture the short-lived intermediates involved at lower concentrations than necessitated for NMR. Often, NMR and EPR experiments are coupled to get a full picture of the...
967. ...its associated difficulty to model mathematically. For this reason, so far there exists no perfect theoretical model capable of producing quantitative predictions for the TNSA mechanism. Particle-in-**Cell** simulations are usually employed to efficiently achieve predictions. The scheme employs a solid target that interacts firstly with the laser prepulse, this ionises the target turning it into a plasma...
968. ..., tissues, organs or organisms to the harmful effect of ionizing radiation. Cells are least sensitive when in the S phase, then the G phase, then the G phase, and most sensitive in the M phase of the **cell** cycle. This is described by the 'law of Bergonié and Tribondeau', formulated in 1906: X-rays are more effective on cells which have a greater reproductive activity. From their observations, they conc...
969. .... There also appears to be a genetic basis for the varied vulnerability of cells to ionizing radiation. This has been demonstrated across several cancer types and in normal tissues. The damage to the **cell** can be "lethal" (the cell dies) or "sublethal" (the cell can repair itself). Cell damage can ultimately lead to health effects which can be classified as either Tissue Reactions or Stochastic Effects...
970. ...a genetic basis for the varied vulnerability of cells to ionizing radiation. This has been demonstrated across several cancer types and in normal tissues. The damage to the cell can be "lethal" (the **cell** dies) or "sublethal" (the cell can repair itself). Cell damage can ultimately lead to health effects which can be classified as either Tissue Reactions or Stochastic Effects according to the Internat...
971. ...vulnerability of cells to ionizing radiation. This has been demonstrated across several cancer types and in normal tissues. The damage to the cell can be "lethal" (the cell dies) or "sublethal" (the **cell** can repair itself). Cell damage can ultimately lead to health effects which can be classified as either Tissue Reactions or Stochastic Effects according to the International Commission on Radiologica...
972. ...o ionizing radiation. This has been demonstrated across several cancer types and in normal tissues. The damage to the cell can be "lethal" (the cell dies) or "sublethal" (the cell can repair itself). **Cell** damage can ultimately lead to health effects which can be classified as either Tissue Reactions or Stochastic Effects according to the International Commission on Radiological Protection. Tissue reac...
973. ...them by diffusion, but some "hot carrier" photovoltaic devices concepts blur this distinction. The first demonstration of the photovoltaic effect, by Edmond Becquerel in 1839, used an electrochemical **cell**. He explained his discovery in "Comptes rendus de l'Académie des sciences", "the production of an electric current when two plates of platinum or gold immersed in an acid, neutral, or alkaline soluti...
974. ...ences", "the production of an electric current when two plates of platinum or gold immersed in an acid, neutral, or alkaline solution are exposed in an uneven way to solar radiation." The first solar **cell**, consisting of a layer of selenium covered with a thin film of gold, was experimented by Charles Fritts in 1884, but it had a very poor efficiency. However, the most familiar form of the photovoltaic...
975. ...to the junction/interface under the nonequilibrium conditions. The electrons flow in the external circuit back and forth to balance the potential difference between two electrodes. The organic solar **cell**, which the materials have no initial carrier concentration, does not have the AC PV effect. The performance of a photovoltaic module depends on the environmental conditions, mainly on the global inci...
976. ...lation is direct, but weaker, so that this increment does not compensate for the decrease of VOC. As a consequence, Pmax reduces when T increases. This correlation between the output power of a solar **cell** and its junction working temperature depends on the semiconductor material,2 and it is due to the influence of T on the concentration, lifetime, and mobility of the intrinsic carriers, that is, elect...
977. ...erature depends on the semiconductor material,2 and it is due to the influence of T on the concentration, lifetime, and mobility of the intrinsic carriers, that is, electrons and holes, inside the PV **cell**. The temperature sensitivity is usually described by some temperature coefficients, each one expressing the derivative of the parameter it refers to with respect to the junction temperature. The valu...
978. ..., given by ∂Pmax/∂T. Techniques for estimating these coefficients from experimental data can be found in the literature. Few studies analyse the variation of the series resistance with respect to the **cell** or module temperature. This dependency is studied by suitably processing the current–voltage curve. The temperature coefficient of the series resistance is estimated by using the single diode model o...
979. ...model or the double diode one.  In most photovoltaic applications, the radiation source is sunlight, and the devices are called solar cells. In the case of a semiconductor p–n (diode) junction solar **cell**, illuminating the material creates an electric current because excited electrons and the remaining holes are swept in different directions by the built-in electric field of the depletion region.  The...
980. ...sing the Czochralski method. Lithium tantalate is used for nonlinear optics, passive infrared sensors such as motion detectors, terahertz generation and detection, surface acoustic wave applications, **cell** phones.  Lithium tantalate is a standard detector element in infrared spectrophotometers. The phenomenon of pyroelectric fusion has been demonstrated using a lithium tantalate crystal producing a lar...
981. ...d the Interuniversity Microelectronics Centre (IMEC, Belgium). Conventional DRAM consists of a grid of small capacitors and their associated wiring and signaling transistors. Each storage element, a "**cell**", consists of one capacitor and one transistor, a so-called "1T-1C" device. The 1T-1C storage cell design in a FeRAM is similar in construction to the storage cell in DRAM, in that both cell types in...
982. ...of small capacitors and their associated wiring and signaling transistors. Each storage element, a "cell", consists of one capacitor and one transistor, a so-called "1T-1C" device. The 1T-1C storage **cell** design in a FeRAM is similar in construction to the storage cell in DRAM, in that both cell types include one capacitor and one access transistor. In a DRAM cell capacitor, a linear dielectric is use...
983. ...ansistors. Each storage element, a "cell", consists of one capacitor and one transistor, a so-called "1T-1C" device. The 1T-1C storage cell design in a FeRAM is similar in construction to the storage **cell** in DRAM, in that both cell types include one capacitor and one access transistor. In a DRAM cell capacitor, a linear dielectric is used, whereas in a FeRAM cell capacitor the dielectric structure inc...
984. ...ment, a "cell", consists of one capacitor and one transistor, a so-called "1T-1C" device. The 1T-1C storage cell design in a FeRAM is similar in construction to the storage cell in DRAM, in that both **cell** types include one capacitor and one access transistor. In a DRAM cell capacitor, a linear dielectric is used, whereas in a FeRAM cell capacitor the dielectric structure includes ferroelectric materia...
985. ...led "1T-1C" device. The 1T-1C storage cell design in a FeRAM is similar in construction to the storage cell in DRAM, in that both cell types include one capacitor and one access transistor. In a DRAM **cell** capacitor, a linear dielectric is used, whereas in a FeRAM cell capacitor the dielectric structure includes ferroelectric material, typically lead zirconate titanate (PZT). A ferroelectric material h...
986. ...similar in construction to the storage cell in DRAM, in that both cell types include one capacitor and one access transistor. In a DRAM cell capacitor, a linear dielectric is used, whereas in a FeRAM **cell** capacitor the dielectric structure includes ferroelectric material, typically lead zirconate titanate (PZT). A ferroelectric material has a nonlinear relationship between the applied electric field a...
987. ...in the crystal structure. After the charge is removed, the dipoles retain their polarization state. Binary "0"s and "1"s are stored as one of two possible electric polarizations in each data storage **cell**. For example, in the figure a "1" is encoded using the negative remnant polarization "-Pr", and a "0" is encoded using the positive remnant polarization "+Pr". In terms of operation, FeRAM is similar...
988. ...oms inside into the "up" or "down" orientation (depending on the polarity of the charge), thereby storing a "1" or "0". Reading, however, is somewhat different than in DRAM. The transistor forces the **cell** into a particular state, say "0". If the cell already held a "0", nothing will happen in the output lines. If the cell held a "1", the re-orientation of the atoms in the film will cause a brief pulse...
989. ...(depending on the polarity of the charge), thereby storing a "1" or "0". Reading, however, is somewhat different than in DRAM. The transistor forces the cell into a particular state, say "0". If the **cell** already held a "0", nothing will happen in the output lines. If the cell held a "1", the re-orientation of the atoms in the film will cause a brief pulse of current in the output as they push electro...
990. ...Reading, however, is somewhat different than in DRAM. The transistor forces the cell into a particular state, say "0". If the cell already held a "0", nothing will happen in the output lines. If the **cell** held a "1", the re-orientation of the atoms in the film will cause a brief pulse of current in the output as they push electrons out of the metal on the "down" side. The presence of this pulse means...
991. ...d a "1", the re-orientation of the atoms in the film will cause a brief pulse of current in the output as they push electrons out of the metal on the "down" side. The presence of this pulse means the **cell** held a "1". Since this process overwrites the cell, reading FeRAM is a destructive process, and requires the cell to be re-written. In general, the operation of FeRAM is similar to ferrite core memor...
992. ...m will cause a brief pulse of current in the output as they push electrons out of the metal on the "down" side. The presence of this pulse means the cell held a "1". Since this process overwrites the **cell**, reading FeRAM is a destructive process, and requires the cell to be re-written. In general, the operation of FeRAM is similar to ferrite core memory, one of the primary forms of computer memory in t...
993. ...h electrons out of the metal on the "down" side. The presence of this pulse means the cell held a "1". Since this process overwrites the cell, reading FeRAM is a destructive process, and requires the **cell** to be re-written. In general, the operation of FeRAM is similar to ferrite core memory, one of the primary forms of computer memory in the 1960s. However, compared to core memory, FeRAM requires far...
994. ...icon wafer. This improves yield, which is directly related to cost. The lower limit to this scaling process is an important point of comparison. In general, the technology that scales to the smallest **cell** size will end up being the least expensive per bit. In terms of construction, FeRAM and DRAM are similar, and can in general be built on similar lines at similar sizes. In both cases, the lower limit...
995. ...e charge deposited on the metal plates leaks across the insulating layer and the control transistor, and disappears. In order for a DRAM to store data for anything other than a very short time, every **cell** must be periodically read and then re-written, a process known as "refresh". Each cell must be refreshed many times every second (typically 1000/64 round 0 times per second) and this requires a conti...
996. ...l transistor, and disappears. In order for a DRAM to store data for anything other than a very short time, every cell must be periodically read and then re-written, a process known as "refresh". Each **cell** must be refreshed many times every second (typically 1000/64 round 0 times per second) and this requires a continuous supply of power. In contrast, FeRAM only requires power when actually reading or...
997. ...efreshed many times every second (typically 1000/64 round 0 times per second) and this requires a continuous supply of power. In contrast, FeRAM only requires power when actually reading or writing a **cell**. The vast majority of power used in DRAM is used for refresh, so it seems reasonable to suggest that the benchmark quoted by STT-MRAM researchers is useful here too, indicating power usage about 99%...
998. ...nt of atoms in response to an external field, which is extremely fast, averaging about 1 ns. In theory, this means that FeRAM could be much faster than DRAM. However, since power has to flow into the **cell** for reading and writing, the electrical and switching delays would likely be similar to DRAM overall. It does seem reasonable to suggest that FeRAM would require less charge than DRAM, because DRAMs...
999. ...semiconductor linewidths of 30 nm at Samsung (2007) while FeRAMs are produced in linewidths of 350 nm at Fujitsu and 130 nm at Texas Instruments (2007). Flash memory cells can store multiple bits per **cell** (currently 4 in the highest density NAND flash devices), and the number of bits per flash cell is projected to increase to 8 as a result of innovations in flash cell design. As a consequence, the are...
1000. ...350 nm at Fujitsu and 130 nm at Texas Instruments (2007). Flash memory cells can store multiple bits per cell (currently 4 in the highest density NAND flash devices), and the number of bits per flash **cell** is projected to increase to 8 as a result of innovations in flash cell design. As a consequence, the areal bit densities of flash memory are much higher than those of FeRAM, and thus the cost per bit...
1001. ...cells can store multiple bits per cell (currently 4 in the highest density NAND flash devices), and the number of bits per flash cell is projected to increase to 8 as a result of innovations in flash **cell** design. As a consequence, the areal bit densities of flash memory are much higher than those of FeRAM, and thus the cost per bit of flash memory is orders of magnitude lower than that of FeRAM. The d...
1002. ...eRAM, and thus the cost per bit of flash memory is orders of magnitude lower than that of FeRAM. The density of FeRAM arrays might be increased by improvements in FeRAM foundry process technology and **cell** structures, such as the development of vertical capacitor structures (in the same way as DRAM) to reduce the area of the cell footprint. However, reducing the cell size may cause the data signal to b...
1003. ...ight be increased by improvements in FeRAM foundry process technology and cell structures, such as the development of vertical capacitor structures (in the same way as DRAM) to reduce the area of the **cell** footprint. However, reducing the cell size may cause the data signal to become too weak to be detectable. In 2005, Ramtron reported significant sales of its FeRAM products in a variety of sectors inc...
1004. ...eRAM foundry process technology and cell structures, such as the development of vertical capacitor structures (in the same way as DRAM) to reduce the area of the cell footprint. However, reducing the **cell** size may cause the data signal to become too weak to be detectable. In 2005, Ramtron reported significant sales of its FeRAM products in a variety of sectors including (but not limited to) electricit...
1005. ...ing the shapeshifter causes it to burst into a swarm of smaller creatures who capture Wiccan, take his form and send the fake Wiccan to meet with Hulkling. The shapeshifters keep the real Wiccan in a **cell** where they reveal that they have also captured Doctor Doom and command Wiccan to use his powers to gain Doom's secrets. Due to his history with Doom, Wiccan is apprehensive but quickly learns that th...
1006. ...to be defeated by Iron Man and private bodyguard Bethany Cabe. Shortly thereafter, Shapanka reconstructs his cold suit in prison. When Electro uses his electrical powers to break out of the adjoining **cell**, Shapanka is caught in the blast and the suit is fused to his body. Electro and Blizzard then join forces to take over the "Daily Bugle", but are stopped by Spider-Man and Daredevil. Some months late...
1007. ...an transmit at full Ethernet speed (10 Mbit/s) over distances of . Specially designed electronic devices generally containing a photodiode receive signals from light sources, although in some cases a **cell** phone camera or a digital camera will be sufficient. The image sensor used in these devices is in fact an array of photodiodes (pixels) and in some applications its use may be preferred over a single...
1008. ...conquered city. In , held in a Fire Nation prison, Iroh fakes madness while preparing himself for the solar eclipse, during which Firebending does not work. Once the eclipse begins, Iroh escapes his **cell**, being a formidable opponent even without the use of firebending. In the series finale, Iroh has called the White Lotus to free Ba Sing Se from the Fire Nation—fulfilling his childhood vision, but as...
1009. ...ctronic insulator and reactant barrier, e.g. to oxygen and hydrogen gas. This is their essential function when incorporated into a membrane electrode assembly (MEA) of a proton-exchange membrane fuel **cell** or of a proton-exchange membrane electrolyser: separation of reactants and transport of protons while blocking a direct electronic pathway through the membrane. PEMs can be made from either pure poly...
1010. ...o the use of proton-exchange membrane fuel cells in favor of batteries as a lower capacity but more reliable alternative for Gemini missions 1–4. An improved generation of General Electric's PEM fuel **cell** was used in all subsequent Gemini missions, but was abandoned for the subsequent Apollo missions. The fluorinated ionomer Nafion, which is today the most widely utilized proton-exchange membrane mate...
1011. ...h as cars. However, some disadvantages are: the ~80 °C operating temperature is too low for cogeneration like in SOFCs, and that the electrolyte for PEMFCs must be water-saturated. However, some fuel-**cell** cars, including the Toyota Mirai, operate without humidifiers, relying on rapid water generation and the high rate of back-diffusion through thin membranes to maintain the hydration of the membrane,...
1012. ...ton-exchange membranes is in PEM fuel cells. These fuel cells have a wide variety of commercial and military applications including in the aerospace, automotive, and energy industries. Early PEM fuel **cell** applications were focused within the aerospace industry. The then-higher capacity of fuel cells compared to batteries made them ideal as NASA's Project Gemini began to target longer duration space mi...
1013. ...re popular in automotive applications due to their relatively low operating temperature and their ability to start up quickly even in below-freezing conditions. As of March 2019 there were 6,558 fuel **cell** vehicles on the road in the United States, with the Toyota Mirai being the most popular model. PEM fuel cells have seen successful implementation in other forms of heavy machinery as well, with Balla...
1014. ...sing neurotransmitters from the terminal bouton at the end of an axon into the synaptic cleft. The neurotransmitters bind to receptors on the postsynaptic terminal, which may be a neuron, or a muscle **cell** in the case of a neuromuscular junction. These are collectively referred to as postsynaptic receptors, since they are on the membrane of the postsynaptic cell. One way receptors can react to being bo...
1015. ...inal, which may be a neuron, or a muscle cell in the case of a neuromuscular junction. These are collectively referred to as postsynaptic receptors, since they are on the membrane of the postsynaptic **cell**. One way receptors can react to being bound by a neurotransmitter is to open or close an ion channel, allowing ions to enter or leave the cell. It is these ions that alter the membrane potential. Ion...
1016. ...tors, since they are on the membrane of the postsynaptic cell. One way receptors can react to being bound by a neurotransmitter is to open or close an ion channel, allowing ions to enter or leave the **cell**. It is these ions that alter the membrane potential. Ions are subject to two main forces, diffusion and electrostatic repulsion. Ions will tend towards their equilibrium potential, which is the state...
1017. ...ing amounts of simultaneous input, so the combined activity of afferent neurons can cause large fluctuations in membrane potential or subthreshold membrane potential oscillations. If the postsynaptic **cell** is sufficiently depolarized, an action potential will occur. For example, in low-threshold spikes depolarizations by the T-type calcium channel occur at low, negative, membrane depolarizations result...
1018. ...return to their equilibrium states, and the membrane is returned to its equilibrium potential. Postsynaptic potentials are subject to summation, spatially and/or temporally.  Spatial summation: If a **cell** is receiving input at two synapses that are near each other, their postsynaptic potentials add together. If the cell is receiving two excitatory postsynaptic potentials, they combine so that the memb...
1019. ...ls are subject to summation, spatially and/or temporally.  Spatial summation: If a cell is receiving input at two synapses that are near each other, their postsynaptic potentials add together. If the **cell** is receiving two excitatory postsynaptic potentials, they combine so that the membrane potential is depolarized by the sum of the two changes. If there are two inhibitory potentials, they also sum, a...
1020. ...y combine so that the membrane potential is depolarized by the sum of the two changes. If there are two inhibitory potentials, they also sum, and the membrane is hyperpolarized by that amount. If the **cell** is receiving both inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic potentials, they can cancel out, or one can be stronger than the other, and the membrane potential will change by the difference between them....
1021. ...y and excitatory postsynaptic potentials, they can cancel out, or one can be stronger than the other, and the membrane potential will change by the difference between them. Temporal summation: When a **cell** receives inputs that are close together in time, they are also added together, even if from the same synapse. Thus, if a neuron receives an excitatory postsynaptic potential, and then the presynaptic...
1022. ...en if from the same synapse. Thus, if a neuron receives an excitatory postsynaptic potential, and then the presynaptic neuron fires again, creating another EPSP, then the membrane of the postsynaptic **cell** is depolarized by the total of the EPSPs. Barometric light Barometric light is a name for the light that is emitted by a mercury-filled barometer tube when the tube is shaken. The discovery of this p...
1023. ...g rise to fields that oppose the magnetization. One application of demagnetization is to eliminate unwanted magnetic fields. For example, magnetic fields can interfere with electronic devices such as **cell** phones or computers, and with machining by making cuttings cling to their parent. Voltage reference A voltage reference is an electronic device that ideally produces a fixed (constant) voltage irresp...
1024. ...nominal value, whereas laboratory voltage standards have precisions and stability measured in parts per million. The earliest voltage references or standards were wet-chemical cells such as the Clark **cell** and Weston cell, which are still used in some laboratory and calibration applications. Laboratory-grade Zener diode secondary solid-state voltage standards used in metrology can be constructed with a...
1025. ...hereas laboratory voltage standards have precisions and stability measured in parts per million. The earliest voltage references or standards were wet-chemical cells such as the Clark cell and Weston **cell**, which are still used in some laboratory and calibration applications. Laboratory-grade Zener diode secondary solid-state voltage standards used in metrology can be constructed with a drift of about...
1026. ...solution are related by the Nernst equation as commonly represented by a Pourbaix diagram . formula_9 explicitly denotes formula_11 expressed versus the standard hydrogen electrode (SHE). For a half **cell** equation, conventionally written as a reduction reaction ("i.e.", electrons accepted by an oxidant on the left side): The equilibrium constant of this reduction reaction is:  where curly braces { } i...
1027. ...e concentrations are not too high, the activity (formula_15) can be related to the measurable concentration (formula_16) by a linear relationship with the activity coefficient (formula_17):  The half-**cell** standard reduction potential formula_19 is given by where formula_21 is the standard Gibbs free energy change, is the number of electrons involved, and is the Faraday's constant. The Nernst equation...
1028. ...es are not usually caused by thermal burns, since the current is too brief to greatly heat up tissues; instead, nerves and muscles may be directly damaged by the high voltage producing holes in their **cell** membranes, a process called electroporation. In a direct strike, the electrical currents in the flash channel pass directly through the victim. The relatively high voltage drop around poorer electric...
1029. ...–Hearn sum rule. For seismic wave propagation, the Kramer–Kronig relation helps to find right form for the quality factor in an attenuating medium. The Kramers-Kronig test is used in battery and fuel **cell** applications (dielectric spectroscopy) to test for linearity, causality and stationarity. Since, it is not possible in practice to obtain data in the whole frequency range, as the Kramers-Kronig form...
1030. ...of ionic current across biological membranes, currents are measured from inside to outside. That is, positive currents, known as "outward current", corresponding to positively charged ions crossing a **cell** membrane from the inside to the outside, or a negatively charged ion crossing from the outside to the inside. Similarly, currents with a negative value are referred to as "inward current", correspond...
1031. ...or a negatively charged ion crossing from the outside to the inside. Similarly, currents with a negative value are referred to as "inward current", corresponding to positively charged ions crossing a **cell** membrane from the outside to the inside, or a negatively charged ion crossing from inside to outside. The figure to the right shows an I–V curve that is more relevant to the currents in excitable bio...
1032. ...voltage-dependent. The green line indicates the I–V relationship derived from summing the sodium and potassium currents. This approximates the actual membrane potential and current relationship of a **cell** containing both types of channel. Electron avalanche An electron avalanche is a process in which a number of free electrons in a transmission medium are subjected to strong acceleration by an electri...
1033. ...chains which allows a maximum magnetic dipole moment to be created. Within bacteria, there can be many chains of magnetosomes of different lengths that tend to align along the long axis of bacterial **cell**. The dipole moment created from the chains of magnetosomes allows the bacteria to align with the magnetic field as they move. Once magnetic bacteria die, they are able to orient themselves to the Ear...
1034. ...system, a central battery system with automatic controls, located in the power station building, is used to avoid long electric supply wires. This central battery system consists of lead-acid battery **cell** units to make up a 12 or 24 VDC system as well as stand-by cells, each with its own battery charging unit. Also needed are a voltage sensing unit capable of receiving 208 VAC and an automatic system...
1035. ...ndrik de Boer and Evert Johannes Willem Verwey pointed out that a variety of transition metal oxides predicted to be conductors by band theory are insulators. With an odd number of electrons per unit **cell**, the valence band is only partially filled, so the Fermi level lies within the band. From the band theory, this implies that such a material has to be a metal. This conclusion fails for several cases...
1036. ...she says no, Jessica Drew contacts Nick Fury who confronts her securely and urges her to accept the offer. He tells Jessica that he will feed her limited info until S.H.I.E.L.D. can analyze the HYDRA **cell** and then use the info to take it down. The HYDRA cell is in fact a team of Skrulls who made the offer as a trap to abduct Drew, so that their current Queen Veranke could take her place in the New Ave...
1037. ...onts her securely and urges her to accept the offer. He tells Jessica that he will feed her limited info until S.H.I.E.L.D. can analyze the HYDRA cell and then use the info to take it down. The HYDRA **cell** is in fact a team of Skrulls who made the offer as a trap to abduct Drew, so that their current Queen Veranke could take her place in the New Avengers and assume her role as Fury's spy in preparation...
1038. ...ting epichlorohydrin with aliphatic monoamines. Total body irradiation Total body irradiation (TBI) is a form of radiotherapy used primarily as part of the preparative regimen for haematopoietic stem **cell** (or bone marrow) transplantation. As the name implies, TBI involves irradiation of the entire body, though in modern practice the lungs are often partially shielded to lower the risk of radiation-ind...
1039. ...ical trials. Total body irradiation results in infertility in most cases, with recovery of gonadal function occurring in 10−14% of females. The number of pregnancies observed after hematopoietic stem **cell** transplantation involving such a procedure is lower than 2%. Fertility preservation measures mainly include cryopreservation of ovarian tissue, embryos or oocytes. Gonadal function has been reported...
1040. ...h it to produce tiny crystals of the mineral magnetite, the most magnetic mineral on Earth. Purification of magnetosomes is accomplished by use of a magnetic separation column after disruption of the **cell** membrane. If a detergent is used on purified magnetosomes, they tend to agglomerate rather than staying in chain form. Due to the high quality of the single-domain magnetic crystals, a commercial int...
1041. ...energy, in order to obtain Harper's equation (also known as almost Mathieu operator for formula_24): where formula_26 and formula_27, formula_28 is proportional to the magnetic flux through a lattice **cell** and formula_29 is the magnetic flux quantum. The flux ratio formula_30 can also be expressed in terms of the magnetic length formula_31, such that formula_32. Hofstadter's butterfly is the resulting...
1042. ...l possible formula_36 that are a solution to Harper's equation. Due to the cosine function's properties, the pattern is periodic on formula_30 with period 1 (it repeats for each quantum flux per unit **cell**). The graph in the region of formula_38 between 0 and 1 has reflection symmetry in the lines formula_39 and formula_40. Note that formula_36 is necessarily bounded between -4 and 4. Harper's equation...
1043. ...ting from an electrical fluid or substance in the nerves. Short-lived electrical events called action potentials occur in several types of animal cells which are called excitable cells, a category of **cell** include neurons, muscle cells, and endocrine cells, as well as in some plant cells. These action potentials are used to facilitate inter-cellular communication and activate intracellular processes. T...
1044. ...cellular processes. The physiological phenomena of action potentials are possible because voltage-gated ion channels allow the resting potential caused by electrochemical gradient on either side of a **cell** membrane to resolve.. Several animals are suspected to have the ability to sense electromagnetic fields; for example, several aquatic animals have structures potentially capable of sensing changes in...
1045. ...significant thermal effects and medical devices such as pacemakers and other electronic implants. However, many studies have been conducted with electromagnetic fields to investigate their effects on **cell** metabolism, apoptosis, and tumor growth. Electromagnetic radiation in the intermediate frequency range has found a place in modern medical practice for the treatment of bone healing and for nerve sti...
1046. ...in sustained amounts. Lashina appears in "DC Super Hero Girls", voiced by Jessica DiCicco. Flow battery A flow battery, or redox flow battery (after reduction–oxidation), is a type of electrochemical **cell** where chemical energy is provided by two chemical components dissolved in liquids that are pumped through the system on separate sides of a membrane. Ion transfer inside the cell (accompanied by curr...
1047. ...e of electrochemical cell where chemical energy is provided by two chemical components dissolved in liquids that are pumped through the system on separate sides of a membrane. Ion transfer inside the **cell** (accompanied by current flow through an external circuit) occurs across the membrane while the liquids circulate in their respective spaces. Various flow batteries have been demonstrated, including i...
1048. ...tional and flow batteries is that energy is stored in the electrode material in conventional batteries, while in flow batteries it is stored in the electrolyte. A flow battery may be used like a fuel **cell** (where new charged negolyte (a.k.a. reducer or fuel) and charged posolyte (a.k.a. oxidant) are added to the system) or like a rechargeable battery (where an electric power source drives regeneration...
1049. ...s in the liquid phase. Patent Classifications for flow batteries had not been fully developed as of 2021. Cooperative Patent Classification considers flow batteries as a subclass of regenerative fuel **cell** (H01M8/18), even though it is more appropriate to consider fuel cells as a subclass of flow batteries. Cell voltage is chemically determined by the Nernst equation and ranges, in practical applicatio...
1050. ...operative Patent Classification considers flow batteries as a subclass of regenerative fuel cell (H01M8/18), even though it is more appropriate to consider fuel cells as a subclass of flow batteries. **Cell** voltage is chemically determined by the Nernst equation and ranges, in practical applications, from 1.0 to 2.43 volts. The energy capacity is a function of the electrolyte volume and the power is a f...
1051. ...ry farm was the biggest in the world when it opened in April 2022 — until China deployed one eight times larger that can match the output of a natural gas plant. A flow battery is a rechargeable fuel **cell** in which an electrolyte containing one or more dissolved electroactive elements flows through an electrochemical cell that reversibly converts chemical energy to electrical energy. Electroactive elem...
1052. ...an match the output of a natural gas plant. A flow battery is a rechargeable fuel cell in which an electrolyte containing one or more dissolved electroactive elements flows through an electrochemical **cell** that reversibly converts chemical energy to electrical energy. Electroactive elements are "elements in solution that can take part in an electrode reaction or that can be adsorbed on the electrode."...
1053. ..."elements in solution that can take part in an electrode reaction or that can be adsorbed on the electrode."  Electrolyte is stored externally, generally in tanks, and is typically pumped through the **cell** (or cells) of the reactor. Flow batteries can be rapidly "recharged" by replacing discharged electrolyte liquid (analogous to refueling internal combustion engines) while recovering the spent materia...
1054. ...However a high power of 1.4 W/cm was demonstrated for hydrogen–bromine flow batteries, and a high specific energy (530 Wh/kg at the tank level) was shown for hydrogen–bromate flow batteries The redox **cell** uses redox-active species in fluid (liquid or gas) media. Redox flow batteries are rechargeable (secondary) cells. Because they employ heterogeneous electron transfer rather than solid-state diffusio...
1055. ...n of VO during cycling. The hybrid flow battery (HFB) uses one or more electroactive components deposited as a solid layer. The major disadvantage is that this reduces decoupled energy and power. The **cell** contains one battery electrode and one fuel cell electrode. This type is limited in energy by the electrode surface area.  HFBs include zinc–bromine, zinc–cerium, soluble lead–acid, and all-iron flow...
1056. ...HFB) uses one or more electroactive components deposited as a solid layer. The major disadvantage is that this reduces decoupled energy and power. The cell contains one battery electrode and one fuel **cell** electrode. This type is limited in energy by the electrode surface area.  HFBs include zinc–bromine, zinc–cerium, soluble lead–acid, and all-iron flow batteries. Weng et al. reported a vanadium–metal...
1057. ...ine–bromide ions () as a means to free up iodide ions for charge storage. Proton flow batteries (PFB) integrate a metal hydride storage electrode into a reversible proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel **cell**. During charging, PFB combines hydrogen ions produced from splitting water with electrons and metal particles in one electrode of a fuel cell. The energy is stored in the form of a metal hydride soli...
1058. ...ode into a reversible proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cell. During charging, PFB combines hydrogen ions produced from splitting water with electrons and metal particles in one electrode of a fuel **cell**. The energy is stored in the form of a metal hydride solid. Discharge produces electricity and water when the process is reversed and the protons are combined with ambient oxygen. Metals less expensi...
1059. ...iologen as an anolyte and 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidin-1-oxyl as a catholyte at pH neutral conditions, plus NaCL and a low-cost anion exchange membrane. This MV/TEMPO system has the highest **cell** voltage, 1.25V, and, possibly, lowest capital cost ($180/kWh) reported for AORFBs as of 2015. The aqueous liquid electrolytes were designed as a drop-in replacement without replacing infrastructure....
1060. ...the negative side and 1,2-dihydrobenzoquinone- 3,5-disulfonic acid on the positive side avoids the use of hazardous Br. The battery was claimed to last 1,000 cycles without degradation. It has a low **cell** voltage (ca. 0.55V) and a low energy density (< 4Wh/L). Replacing hydrobromic acid with a less toxic alkaline solution (1M KOH) and ferrocyanide was less corrosive, allowing the use of inexpensive po...
1061. ...ne solution (1M KOH) and ferrocyanide was less corrosive, allowing the use of inexpensive polymer tanks. The increased electrical resistance in the membrane was compensated increased voltage to 1.2V. **Cell** efficiency exceeded 99%, while round-trip efficiency measured 84%. The battery offered an expected lifetime of at least 1,000 cycles. Its theoretic energy density was 19Wh/L. Ferrocyanide's chemical...
1062. ...arge cycles in tests, although it was not water-soluble. Quinone and fluorenone molecules can be reengineered to increase water solubility. In 2021 a reversible ketone (de)hydrogenation demonstration **cell** operated continuously for 120 days over 1,111 charging cycles at room temperature without a catalyst, retaining 97% percent capacity. The cell offered more than double the energy density of vanadium-...
1063. ...2021 a reversible ketone (de)hydrogenation demonstration cell operated continuously for 120 days over 1,111 charging cycles at room temperature without a catalyst, retaining 97% percent capacity. The **cell** offered more than double the energy density of vanadium-based systems. The major challenge was the lack of a stable catholyte, holding energy densities below 5 Wh/L. Alkaline AORFBs use excess potass...
1064. ...ligands can inhibit metal-catalyzed water-splitting reactions, resulting in higher voltage aqueous systems. For example, the use of chromium coordinated to 1,3-propanediaminetetraacetate (PDTA), gave **cell** potentials of 1.62 V vs. ferrocyanide and a record 2.13 V vs. bromine. Metal-organic flow batteries may be known as coordination chemistry flow batteries, such as Lockheed Martin's Gridstar Flow tech...
1065. ...saturated solution of potassium chloride in water. The electrode is normally linked via a porous frit (sometimes coupled to a salt bridge) to the solution in which the other electrode is immersed. In **cell** notation the electrode is written as: The electrode is based on the redox reactions The half reactions can be balanced to the following reaction Which can be simplified to the precipitation reaction,...
1066. ...applications in biophysics and biotechnology, as they can influence living organisms in a variety of ways. For example, iron-doped lithium niobate excited with visible light has been shown to produce **cell** death in tumoral cell cultures. Periodically poled lithium niobate (PPLN) is a domain-engineered lithium niobate crystal, used mainly for achieving quasi-phase-matching in nonlinear optics. The ferro...
1067. ...sics and biotechnology, as they can influence living organisms in a variety of ways. For example, iron-doped lithium niobate excited with visible light has been shown to produce cell death in tumoral **cell** cultures. Periodically poled lithium niobate (PPLN) is a domain-engineered lithium niobate crystal, used mainly for achieving quasi-phase-matching in nonlinear optics. The ferroelectric domains point...
1068. ...t convert stored chemical energy into electrical energy. Since the invention of the first battery (or "voltaic pile") in 1800 by Alessandro Volta and especially since the technically improved Daniell **cell** in 1836, batteries have become a common power source for many household and industrial applications. According to a 2005 estimate, the worldwide battery industry generates US$48 billion in sales each...
1069. ...to 500 electron volts. Eventually, stable ground state Te is produced as the final decay product. In medical applications, the internal conversion and Auger electrons cause little damage outside the **cell** which contains the isotope atom. The X-rays and gamma rays are of low enough energy to deliver a higher radiation dose selectively to nearby tissues, in "permanent" brachytherapy where the isotope ca...
1070. ...evices at smaller scale applications, such as portable lighting systems. A white LED typically requires 3.3 V to emit light, and a boost converter can step up the voltage from a single 1.5 V alkaline **cell** to power the lamp. An unregulated boost converter is used as the voltage increase mechanism in the circuit known as the "Joule thief", based on blocking oscillator concepts. This circuit topology is...
1071. ...r organisms, from euglenoid algae to trout. Reports in humans and pigeons are far less advanced. Magnetotactic bacteria organize their magnetosomes in linear chains. The magnetic dipole moment of the **cell** is therefore the sum of the dipole moment of each BMP, which is then sufficient to passively orient the cell and overcome the casual thermal forces found in a water environment. In the presence of mo...
1072. ...c bacteria organize their magnetosomes in linear chains. The magnetic dipole moment of the cell is therefore the sum of the dipole moment of each BMP, which is then sufficient to passively orient the **cell** and overcome the casual thermal forces found in a water environment. In the presence of more than one chain, the inter-chain repulsive forces will push these structures to the edge of the cell, induc...
1073. ...nt the cell and overcome the casual thermal forces found in a water environment. In the presence of more than one chain, the inter-chain repulsive forces will push these structures to the edge of the **cell**, inducing turgor. Nearly all of the genes relevant to magnetotaxis in MTB are located in an approximately 80 kilobase region in the genome called the magnetosome island. There are three main operons...
1074. ...enes that contribute to magnetotaxis in MTB. These non-essential genes account for the variation in magnetite/greigite crystal size and shape, as well as the specific alignment of magnetosomes in the **cell**. The diversity of MTB is reflected by the high number of different morphotypes found in environmental samples of water or sediment. Commonly observed morphotypes include spherical or ovoid cells (coc...
1075. ...ctic bacteria using 16S rRNA gene sequence comparisons was performed by P. Eden et al. in 1991. Another trait that shows considerable diversity is the arrangement of magnetosomes inside the bacterial **cell**. In the majority of MTB, the magnetosomes are aligned in chains of various lengths and numbers along the cell's long axis, which is magnetically the most efficient orientation. However, dispersed agg...
1076. ...that shows considerable diversity is the arrangement of magnetosomes inside the bacterial cell. In the majority of MTB, the magnetosomes are aligned in chains of various lengths and numbers along the **cell**'s long axis, which is magnetically the most efficient orientation. However, dispersed aggregates or clusters of magnetosomes occur in some MTB, usually at one side of the cell, which often correspond...
1077. ...s and numbers along the cell's long axis, which is magnetically the most efficient orientation. However, dispersed aggregates or clusters of magnetosomes occur in some MTB, usually at one side of the **cell**, which often corresponds to the site of flagellar insertion. Besides magnetosomes, large inclusion bodies containing elemental sulfur, polyphosphate, or poly-β-hydroxybutyrate are common in MTB. The...
1078. ...ain. The inclination of the Earth's magnetic field in the two respective hemispheres selects one of the two possible polarities of the magnetotactic cells (with respect to the flagellated pole of the **cell**), orienting the biomineralisation of the magnetosomes. Aerotaxis is the response by which bacteria migrate to an optimal oxygen concentration in an oxygen gradient. Various experiments have clearly s...
1079. ...tape player, walkie-talkie and quartz watch, as well as the first practical computers and mobile phones. Other examples of solid state electronic devices are the microprocessor chip, LED lamp, solar **cell**, charge coupled device (CCD) image sensor used in cameras, and semiconductor laser. Also during the 1960s and 1970s, television set manufacturers switched from vacuum tubes to semiconductors, and adv...
1080. ...into a U-shape, with a single plate of zinc placed in the center of the bent copper. The zinc plate was prevented from making contact with the copper by dowels (pieces) of cork or wood. In his single **cell** design, the U-shaped copper plate was welded to a horizontal handle for lifting the copper and zinc plates out of the electrolyte when the battery was not in use. In 1809, Samuel Thomas von Soemmerin...
1081. ...ette, mathematisch bearbeitet" (The Galvanic Circuit Investigated Mathematically) in which he gave his complete theory of electricity. In 1829 Antoine-César Becquerel developed the "constant current" **cell**, forerunner of the well-known Daniell cell. When this acid-alkali cell was monitored by a galvanometer, current was found to be constant for an hour, the first instance of "constant current". He appl...
1082. ...c Circuit Investigated Mathematically) in which he gave his complete theory of electricity. In 1829 Antoine-César Becquerel developed the "constant current" cell, forerunner of the well-known Daniell **cell**. When this acid-alkali cell was monitored by a galvanometer, current was found to be constant for an hour, the first instance of "constant current". He applied the results of his study of thermoelect...
1083. ...matically) in which he gave his complete theory of electricity. In 1829 Antoine-César Becquerel developed the "constant current" cell, forerunner of the well-known Daniell cell. When this acid-alkali **cell** was monitored by a galvanometer, current was found to be constant for an hour, the first instance of "constant current". He applied the results of his study of thermoelectricity to the construction o...
1084. ...e atmosphere at different heights. He helped validate Faraday's laws and conducted extensive investigations on the electroplating of metals with applications for metal finishing and metallurgy. Solar **cell** technology dates to 1839 when Becquerel observed that shining light on an electrode submerged in a conductive solution would create an electric current. Michael Faraday began, in 1832, what promised...
1085. ...rough a conducting liquid medium that caused the molecules to dissociate, even when the electricity merely discharged into the air and did not pass through a "pole" or "center of action" in a voltaic **cell**. Second, the amount of the decomposition was found to be related directly to the amount of electricity passing through the solution. These findings led Faraday to a new theory of electrochemistry. Th...
1086. ...in an attempt to improve the voltaic battery with its problems of being unsteady and a weak source of electric current. His experiments soon led to remarkable results. In 1836, he invented a primary **cell** in which hydrogen was eliminated in the generation of the electricity. Daniell had solved the problem of polarization. In his laboratory he had learned to alloy the amalgamated zinc of Sturgeon with...
1087. ...rsion was the first of the two-fluid class battery and the first battery that produced a constant reliable source of electric current over a long period of time. William Grove produced the first fuel **cell** in 1839. He based his experiment on the fact that sending an electric current through water splits the water into its component parts of hydrogen and oxygen. So, Grove tried reversing the reaction—co...
1088. ...ater splits the water into its component parts of hydrogen and oxygen. So, Grove tried reversing the reaction—combining hydrogen and oxygen to produce electricity and water. Eventually the term "fuel **cell**" was coined in 1889 by Ludwig Mond and Charles Langer, who attempted to build the first practical device using air and industrial coal gas. He also introduced a powerful battery at the annual meeting...
1089. ...first practical device using air and industrial coal gas. He also introduced a powerful battery at the annual meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1839. Grove's first **cell** consisted of zinc in diluted sulfuric acid and platinum in concentrated nitric acid, separated by a porous pot. The cell was able to generate about 12 amperes of current at about 1.8 volts. This cell...
1090. ...the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1839. Grove's first cell consisted of zinc in diluted sulfuric acid and platinum in concentrated nitric acid, separated by a porous pot. The **cell** was able to generate about 12 amperes of current at about 1.8 volts. This cell had nearly double the voltage of the first Daniell cell. Grove's nitric acid cell was the favourite battery of the early...
1091. ...cell consisted of zinc in diluted sulfuric acid and platinum in concentrated nitric acid, separated by a porous pot. The cell was able to generate about 12 amperes of current at about 1.8 volts. This **cell** had nearly double the voltage of the first Daniell cell. Grove's nitric acid cell was the favourite battery of the early American telegraph (1840–1860), because it offered strong current output. As t...
1092. ...inum in concentrated nitric acid, separated by a porous pot. The cell was able to generate about 12 amperes of current at about 1.8 volts. This cell had nearly double the voltage of the first Daniell **cell**. Grove's nitric acid cell was the favourite battery of the early American telegraph (1840–1860), because it offered strong current output. As telegraphs became more complex, the need for a constant v...
1093. ...c acid, separated by a porous pot. The cell was able to generate about 12 amperes of current at about 1.8 volts. This cell had nearly double the voltage of the first Daniell cell. Grove's nitric acid **cell** was the favourite battery of the early American telegraph (1840–1860), because it offered strong current output. As telegraphs became more complex, the need for a constant voltage became critical and...
1094. ...y American telegraph (1840–1860), because it offered strong current output. As telegraphs became more complex, the need for a constant voltage became critical and the Grove device was limited (as the **cell** discharged, nitric acid was depleted and voltage was reduced). By the time of the American Civil War, Grove's battery had been replaced by the Daniell battery. In 1841 Robert Bunsen replaced the expe...
1095. ...s) of many ions, and, in 1869, published his findings governing the migration of ions. In 1866, Georges Leclanché patented a new battery system, which was immediately successful. Leclanché's original **cell** was assembled in a porous pot. The positive electrode (the cathode) consisted of crushed manganese dioxide with a little carbon mixed in. The negative pole (anode) was a zinc rod. The cathode was pac...
1096. ...he pot were then immersed in an ammonium chloride solution. The liquid acted as the electrolyte, readily seeping through the porous pot and making contact with the cathode material. Leclanché's "wet" **cell** became the forerunner to the world's first widely used battery, the zinc-carbon cell. In 1869 Zénobe Gramme devised his first clean direct current dynamo. His generator featured a ring armature wound...
1097. ...lectrolyte, readily seeping through the porous pot and making contact with the cathode material. Leclanché's "wet" cell became the forerunner to the world's first widely used battery, the zinc-carbon **cell**. In 1869 Zénobe Gramme devised his first clean direct current dynamo. His generator featured a ring armature wound with many individual coils of wire. Svante August Arrhenius published his thesis in...
1098. ...ctrochemistry, including important studies of the electrical conductivity and electrolytic dissociation of organic acids. Hermann Nernst developed the theory of the electromotive force of the voltaic **cell** in 1888. He developed methods for measuring dielectric constants and was the first to show that solvents of high dielectric constants promote the ionization of substances. Nernst's early studies in e...
1099. ...duced could be used to calculate the free energy change in the chemical reaction producing the current. He constructed an equation, known as Nernst Equation, which describes the relation of a battery **cell**'s voltage to its properties. In 1898 Fritz Haber published his textbook, "Electrochemistry: Grundriss der technischen Elektrochemie auf theoretischer Grundlage" (The Theoretical Basis of Technical El...
1100. ...ed voltage was varied and the experiment repeated. Measured weight was plotted versus applied voltage to obtain the curve. In 1921, Heyrovský had the idea of measuring the current flowing through the **cell** instead of just studying drop-time. On February 10, 1922, the "polarograph" was born as Heyrovský recorded the current-voltage curve for a solution of 1 mol/L NaOH. Heyrovský correctly interpreted th...
1101. ...formula_1 it undergoes a spontaneous phase transition. Such a phase transition typically results in only a small deviation from the nonferroic crystal structure, but in altering the shape of the unit **cell** the point symmetry of the material is reduced. This breaking of symmetry is physically what allows the formation of the ferroic phase. In ferroelectrics, upon lowering the temperature below formula_1...
1102. ...mmetry is physically what allows the formation of the ferroic phase. In ferroelectrics, upon lowering the temperature below formula_1, a spontaneous dipole moment is induced along an axis of the unit **cell**. Although individual dipole moments can sometimes be small, the effect of formula_4 unit cells gives rise to an electric field that over the bulk substance that is not insignificant. An important poi...
1103. ...ase transition is when the crystal structure spontaneously changes from a tetragonal structure (a square prism shape) to a monoclinic structure (a general parallelepiped). Here the shapes of the unit **cell** before and after the phase transition are different, and hence a strain is induced within the bulk. In recent years, multiferroics have been attracting increased interest. These materials exhibit mor...
1104. ...an advantage. AMD and Hynix licensed Z-RAM, but as of 2008 had not put it into production. Another similar technology (and Z-RAM competitor) developed at Toshiba and refined at Intel is Floating Body **Cell** (FBC). Glasser effect The Glasser effect describes the creation of singularities in the flow field of a magnetically confined plasma when small resonant perturbations modify the gradient of the press...
1105. ...usiness in Liverpool. He was responsible for various inventions, but did not patent many of his ideas. In 1856, he invented the stereoscopic camera (GB patent 2064/1856).  Dancer improved the Daniell **cell** by introducing the porous pot cell, which he invented in 1838. He was a leading inventor and practitioner in the emerging field of microphotography, work he began shortly after the Daguerreotype proc...
1106. ...sible for various inventions, but did not patent many of his ideas. In 1856, he invented the stereoscopic camera (GB patent 2064/1856).  Dancer improved the Daniell cell by introducing the porous pot **cell**, which he invented in 1838. He was a leading inventor and practitioner in the emerging field of microphotography, work he began shortly after the Daguerreotype process was first announced in 1839. Hi...
1107. ...ation or portable power generation. is a topological insulator, and thus exhibits thickness-dependent physical properties. Bismuth telluride is a narrow-gap layered semiconductor with a trigonal unit **cell**. The valence and conduction band structure can be described as a many-ellipsoidal model with 6 constant-energy ellipsoids that are centered on the reflection planes. cleaves easily along the trigonal...
1108. ...l electromagnetics" (CEM) important to the design, and modeling of antenna, radar, satellite and other communication systems, nanophotonic devices and high speed silicon electronics, medical imaging, **cell**-phone antenna design, among other applications. CEM typically solves the problem of computing the "E" (electric) and "H" (magnetic) fields across the problem domain (e.g., to calculate antenna radiat...
1109. ...is a full spectrum method valid from dc to the maximum frequency determined by the meshing. In the PEEC method, the integral equation is interpreted as Kirchhoff's voltage law applied to a basic PEEC **cell** which results in a complete circuit solution for 3D geometries. The equivalent circuit formulation allows for additional SPICE type circuit elements to be easily included. Further, the models and the...
1110. ...n lack of scientific evidence of harmful effects from radio frequency (RF) waves and that the RF exposure of people in their homes to smart meters is likely to be minuscule compared to RF exposure to **cell** phones and microwave ovens. Daniel Hirsch, retired director of the Program on Environmental and Nuclear Policy at UC Santa Cruz, criticized the CCST report on the grounds that it did not consider stu...
1111. ...nsider studies that suggest the potential for non-thermal health effects such as latent cancers from RF exposure. Hirsch also stated that the CCST report failed to correct errors in its comparison to **cell** phones and microwave ovens and that, when these errors are corrected, smart meters "may produce cumulative whole-body exposures far higher than that of cell phones or microwave ovens." The Federal Co...
1112. ...led to correct errors in its comparison to cell phones and microwave ovens and that, when these errors are corrected, smart meters "may produce cumulative whole-body exposures far higher than that of **cell** phones or microwave ovens." The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has adopted recommended Permissible Exposure Limit (PEL) for all RF transmitters (including smart meters) operating at frequenc...
1113. ...higher frequency which is less effective at stimulating nerves and muscles due to its biphasic nature which doesn't allow a build up of enough charge, in the short time between phases, to depolarize **cell** membranes in order to evoke an action potential. Diradical In chemistry, a diradical is a molecular species with two electrons occupying molecular orbitals (MOs) which are degenerate. The term "dirad...
1114. ...thermal radiation, provided that a factor of 2 is then used for this incoming flux as well. The analysis gives a more rigorous expression for ideal diodes in general, except that it assumes that the **cell** is thick enough that it can produce this flux of photons. When the illumination is just background thermal radiation, the characteristic is Note that, in contrast to the Shockley law, the current goe...
1115. ...ifference (voltage) between a half-reaction's thermodynamically determined reduction potential and the potential at which the redox event is experimentally observed. The term is directly related to a **cell**'s "voltage efficiency". In an electrolytic cell the existence of overpotential implies that the cell requires more energy than thermodynamically expected to drive a reaction. In a galvanic cell the e...
1116. ...ermodynamically determined reduction potential and the potential at which the redox event is experimentally observed. The term is directly related to a cell's "voltage efficiency". In an electrolytic **cell** the existence of overpotential implies that the cell requires more energy than thermodynamically expected to drive a reaction. In a galvanic cell the existence of overpotential means less energy is r...
1117. ...e potential at which the redox event is experimentally observed. The term is directly related to a cell's "voltage efficiency". In an electrolytic cell the existence of overpotential implies that the **cell** requires more energy than thermodynamically expected to drive a reaction. In a galvanic cell the existence of overpotential means less energy is recovered than thermodynamics predicts. In each case t...
1118. ...to a cell's "voltage efficiency". In an electrolytic cell the existence of overpotential implies that the cell requires more energy than thermodynamically expected to drive a reaction. In a galvanic **cell** the existence of overpotential means less energy is recovered than thermodynamics predicts. In each case the extra/missing energy is lost as heat. The quantity of overpotential is specific to each ce...
1119. ...ll the existence of overpotential means less energy is recovered than thermodynamics predicts. In each case the extra/missing energy is lost as heat. The quantity of overpotential is specific to each **cell** design and varies across cells and operational conditions, even for the same reaction. Overpotential is experimentally determined by measuring the potential at which a given current density (typicall...
1120. ...e forms of overpotential. The overall overpotential is the summation of many individual losses. "Voltage efficiency" describes the fraction of energy lost through overpotential. For an "electrolytic" **cell** this is the ratio of a cell's thermodynamic potential divided by the cell's experimental potential converted to a percentile. For a "galvanic" cell it is the ratio of a cell's experimental potential...
1121. ...e overall overpotential is the summation of many individual losses. "Voltage efficiency" describes the fraction of energy lost through overpotential. For an "electrolytic" cell this is the ratio of a **cell**'s thermodynamic potential divided by the cell's experimental potential converted to a percentile. For a "galvanic" cell it is the ratio of a cell's experimental potential divided by the cell's thermo...
1122. ...ny individual losses. "Voltage efficiency" describes the fraction of energy lost through overpotential. For an "electrolytic" cell this is the ratio of a cell's thermodynamic potential divided by the **cell**'s experimental potential converted to a percentile. For a "galvanic" cell it is the ratio of a cell's experimental potential divided by the cell's thermodynamic potential converted to a percentile. V...
1123. ...y lost through overpotential. For an "electrolytic" cell this is the ratio of a cell's thermodynamic potential divided by the cell's experimental potential converted to a percentile. For a "galvanic" **cell** it is the ratio of a cell's experimental potential divided by the cell's thermodynamic potential converted to a percentile. Voltage efficiency should not be confused with Faraday efficiency. Both ter...
1124. ...al. For an "electrolytic" cell this is the ratio of a cell's thermodynamic potential divided by the cell's experimental potential converted to a percentile. For a "galvanic" cell it is the ratio of a **cell**'s experimental potential divided by the cell's thermodynamic potential converted to a percentile. Voltage efficiency should not be confused with Faraday efficiency. Both terms refer to a mode through...
1125. ...tio of a cell's thermodynamic potential divided by the cell's experimental potential converted to a percentile. For a "galvanic" cell it is the ratio of a cell's experimental potential divided by the **cell**'s thermodynamic potential converted to a percentile. Voltage efficiency should not be confused with Faraday efficiency. Both terms refer to a mode through which electrochemical systems can lose energ...
1126. ...ubble overpotential causes chlorine to be produced instead, which allows the easy industrial production of chlorine and sodium hydroxide by electrolysis. Resistance overpotentials are those tied to a **cell** design. These include "junction overpotentials" that occur at electrode surfaces and interfaces like electrolyte membranes. They can also include aspects of electrolyte diffusion, surface polarizatio...
1127. ...ing discharge; an average value or nominal value may be used to approximate the integration of power. When comparing the energy capacities of battery-based products that might have different internal **cell** chemistries or cell configurations, a simple ampere-hour rating is often insufficient. For example, at 3.2 V for a lithium iron phosphate battery cell (), the perceived energy capacity of a small UPS...
1128. ...erage value or nominal value may be used to approximate the integration of power. When comparing the energy capacities of battery-based products that might have different internal cell chemistries or **cell** configurations, a simple ampere-hour rating is often insufficient. For example, at 3.2 V for a lithium iron phosphate battery cell (), the perceived energy capacity of a small UPS product that has mu...
1129. ...ased products that might have different internal cell chemistries or cell configurations, a simple ampere-hour rating is often insufficient. For example, at 3.2 V for a lithium iron phosphate battery **cell** (), the perceived energy capacity of a small UPS product that has multiple DC outputs at different voltages but is simply listed with a single ampere-hour rating, e.g., 8800 mAh, would be exaggerated...
1130. ...would be exaggerated by a factor of 3.75 compared to that of a sealed 12-volt lead-acid battery where the ampere-hour rating, e.g., 7 Ah, is based on the total output voltage rather than the internal **cell** voltage, so the 12-volt output of the example UPS product can actually deliver only about a third of the energy of the example battery, not a quarter more energy. But a direct replacement product for...
1131. ...ent product for the example battery, in the same form factor and comparable output voltage and energy capacity but based on , might also be specified as 7 Ah, here based on output voltage rather than **cell** chemistry. For consumers without an engineering background, these difficulties would be avoided by a specification of the watt-hour rating instead (or additionally). One ampere-hour is equal to (up t...
1132. ...ons relating energy or power to resistance. Two different methods of establishing a system of electrical units can be chosen. Various artifacts, such as a length of wire or a standard electrochemical **cell**, could be specified as producing defined quantities for resistance, voltage, and so on. Alternatively, the electrical units can be related to the mechanical units by defining, for example, a unit of...
1133. ...are flexible electronics that cover a large area. The most visible example of macroelectronics is flat-panel displays. Other emerging applications include rollable display, printable thin film solar **cell** and electronic skin. Flat-panel displays fabricated on glass substrates are fragile so fabricating directly on flexible substrates, such as polymers is being explored. Displays made on thin polymer s...
1134. ...bsorptiometry (DXA). Impedance is frequency-sensitive; at low frequency the electric current flows preferentially through extracellular water (ECW) only, while at high frequency the current can cross **cell** membranes and hence flows through total body water (TBW). In bioimpedance spectroscopy devices (BIS) resistance at zero and high frequency can be estimated and, at least theoretically, should provide...
1135. ...esistor (representing the extracellular path) in parallel with a resistor and capacitor in series (representing the intracellular path the resistance that of intracellular fluid and the capacitor the **cell** membrane). This results in a change in impedance versus the frequency used in the measurement. Whole-body impedance is generally measured from the wrist to the ipsilateral ankle and uses either two (...
1136. ...implicitly assumes that the system under study is infinitely periodic (a sensible assumption for the interiors of crystals). One repeating unit of this hypothetical periodic system is called a "unit **cell**". One such cell is chosen as the "central cell" for reference and the remaining cells are called "images". The long-range interaction energy is the sum of interaction energies between the charges of...
1137. ...mes that the system under study is infinitely periodic (a sensible assumption for the interiors of crystals). One repeating unit of this hypothetical periodic system is called a "unit cell". One such **cell** is chosen as the "central cell" for reference and the remaining cells are called "images". The long-range interaction energy is the sum of interaction energies between the charges of a central unit c...
1138. ...is infinitely periodic (a sensible assumption for the interiors of crystals). One repeating unit of this hypothetical periodic system is called a "unit cell". One such cell is chosen as the "central **cell**" for reference and the remaining cells are called "images". The long-range interaction energy is the sum of interaction energies between the charges of a central unit cell and all the charges of the...
1139. ...l is chosen as the "central cell" for reference and the remaining cells are called "images". The long-range interaction energy is the sum of interaction energies between the charges of a central unit **cell** and all the charges of the lattice. Hence, it can be represented as a "double" integral over two charge density fields representing the fields of the unit cell and the crystal lattice formula_4 where...
1140. ...s between the charges of a central unit cell and all the charges of the lattice. Hence, it can be represented as a "double" integral over two charge density fields representing the fields of the unit **cell** and the crystal lattice formula_4 where the unit-cell charge density field formula_5 is a sum over the positions formula_6 of the charges formula_7 in the central unit cell formula_8 and the "total"...
1141. ...he charges of the lattice. Hence, it can be represented as a "double" integral over two charge density fields representing the fields of the unit cell and the crystal lattice formula_4 where the unit-**cell** charge density field formula_5 is a sum over the positions formula_6 of the charges formula_7 in the central unit cell formula_8 and the "total" charge density field formula_9 is the same sum over th...
1142. ...ing the fields of the unit cell and the crystal lattice formula_4 where the unit-cell charge density field formula_5 is a sum over the positions formula_6 of the charges formula_7 in the central unit **cell** formula_8 and the "total" charge density field formula_9 is the same sum over the unit-cell charges formula_10 and their periodic images formula_11 Here, formula_12 is the Dirac delta function, formu...
1143. ...density field formula_5 is a sum over the positions formula_6 of the charges formula_7 in the central unit cell formula_8 and the "total" charge density field formula_9 is the same sum over the unit-**cell** charges formula_10 and their periodic images formula_11 Here, formula_12 is the Dirac delta function, formula_13, formula_14 and formula_15 are the lattice vectors and formula_16, formula_17 and form...
1144. ...lattice function is another sum over delta functions formula_25 where the reciprocal space vectors are defined formula_26 (and cyclic permutations) where formula_27 is the volume of the central unit **cell** (if it is geometrically a parallelepiped, which is often but not necessarily the case). Note that both formula_21 and formula_29 are real, even functions. For brevity, define an effective single-part...
1145. ...esult. Once formula_36 is calculated, the summation/integration over formula_37 is straightforward and should converge quickly. The most common reason for lack of convergence is a poorly defined unit **cell**, which must be charge neutral to avoid infinite sums. Ewald summation was developed as a method in theoretical physics, long before the advent of computers. However, the Ewald method has enjoyed wide...
1146. ...ethod is best suited to systems that can be simulated as infinite in spatial extent. In molecular dynamics simulations this is normally accomplished by deliberately constructing a charge-neutral unit **cell** that can be infinitely "tiled" to form images; however, to properly account for the effects of this approximation, these images are reincorporated back into the original simulation cell. The overall...
1147. ...-neutral unit cell that can be infinitely "tiled" to form images; however, to properly account for the effects of this approximation, these images are reincorporated back into the original simulation **cell**. The overall effect is called a periodic boundary condition. To visualize this most clearly, think of a unit cube; the upper face is effectively in contact with the lower face, the right with the lef...
1148. ...visualize this most clearly, think of a unit cube; the upper face is effectively in contact with the lower face, the right with the left face, and the front with the back face. As a result, the unit **cell** size must be carefully chosen to be large enough to avoid improper motion correlations between two faces "in contact", but still small enough to be computationally feasible. The definition of the cut...
1149. ...n density may be treated more efficiently with the fast multipole method of Greengard and Rokhlin. The electrostatic energy of a polar crystal (i.e. a crystal with a net dipole formula_47 in the unit **cell**) is conditionally convergent, i.e. depends on the order of the summation. For example, if the dipole-dipole interactions of a central unit cell with unit cells located on an ever-increasing cube, the...
1150. ...i.e. a crystal with a net dipole formula_47 in the unit cell) is conditionally convergent, i.e. depends on the order of the summation. For example, if the dipole-dipole interactions of a central unit **cell** with unit cells located on an ever-increasing cube, the energy converges to a different value than if the interaction energies had been summed spherically. Roughly speaking, this conditional converge...
1151. ...y on its surface formula_52 where formula_53 is the surface normal vector and formula_54 represents the net dipole moment per volume. The interaction energy formula_55 of the dipole in a central unit **cell** with that surface charge density can be written formula_56 where formula_47 and formula_58 are the net dipole moment and volume of the unit cell, formula_59 is an infinitesimal area on the crystal su...
1152. ...tion energy formula_55 of the dipole in a central unit cell with that surface charge density can be written formula_56 where formula_47 and formula_58 are the net dipole moment and volume of the unit **cell**, formula_59 is an infinitesimal area on the crystal surface and formula_60 is the vector from the central unit cell to the infinitesimal area. This formula results from integrating the energy formula...
1153. ...56 where formula_47 and formula_58 are the net dipole moment and volume of the unit cell, formula_59 is an infinitesimal area on the crystal surface and formula_60 is the vector from the central unit **cell** to the infinitesimal area. This formula results from integrating the energy formula_61 where formula_62 represents the infinitesimal electric field generated by an infinitesimal surface charge formul...
1154. ...ize. When positive stimulation (anodal tDCS) is delivered, the current causes a depolarization of the resting membrane potential, which increases neuronal excitability and allows for more spontaneous **cell** firing. When negative stimulation (cathodal tDCS) is delivered, the current causes a hyperpolarization of the resting membrane potential. This decreases neuron excitability due to the decreased spont...
1155. .... When negative stimulation (cathodal tDCS) is delivered, the current causes a hyperpolarization of the resting membrane potential. This decreases neuron excitability due to the decreased spontaneous **cell** firing. In case of treating depression, tDCS currents specifically target the left side of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) located in the frontal lobe. Left DLPFC has been shown to be associat...
1156. ...his technique that tested animal and human electricity. Luigi Galvani and Alessandro Volta were two such researchers that utilized the technology of tDCS in their explorations of the source of animal **cell** electricity [citation needed]. It was due to these initial studies that tDCS was first brought into the clinical scene. In 1801, Giovanni Aldini (Galvani's nephew) started a study in which he success...
1157. ...e shows the efficacy of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) for treating nervous diseases such as acute depressive episodes, the lack of knowledge about the nature of this treatment at the **cell** level raises concerns regarding possible adverse effects that would appear long after the treatment has ended. First, tDCS therapy involves exposure of the brain to an intense electric field, which i...
1158. ...sodium gas generated at the cathode then travels to a condenser at the heat-rejection temperature of perhaps 400–700 K, where liquid sodium reforms. The AMTEC thus is an electrochemical concentration **cell**, which converts the work generated by expansion of sodium vapor directly into electric power. The converter is based on the electrolyte used in the sodium–sulfur battery, sodium beta″-alumina, a crys...
1159. ...id electrolyte (BASE) ceramic is nearly insulating with respect to transport of electrons and is a thermodynamically stable phase in contact with both liquid sodium and sodium at low pressure. Single-**cell** AMTECs with open voltages as high as 1.55 V and maximum power density as high as 0.50 W/cm of solid electrolyte area at a temperature of 1173 K (900 °C) have been obtained with long-term stable refra...
1160. ...ignificant number of American uranium miners were Navajo, as many uranium deposits were discovered on Navajo reservations. A statistically significant proportion of these miners later developed small-**cell** lung cancer, a type of cancer usually not associated with smoking, after exposure to uranium ore and radon-222, a natural decay product of uranium. The cancer causing agent has been shown to be the r...
1161. ...o brain thin slice. During local field potential recordings, a signal is recorded using an extracellular microelectrode placed sufficiently far from individual local neurons to prevent any particular **cell** from dominating the electrophysiological signal. This signal is then low-pass filtered, cut off at ~300 Hz, to obtain the local field potential (LFP) that can be recorded electronically or displayed...
1162. .... This is due to the random movement of ions in the medium and electrons in the electrode. However, when placed in neural tissue the opening of an ion channel results in the net flow of ions into the **cell** from the extracellular medium, or out of the cell into the extracellular medium. These local currents result in larger changes in the electrical potential between the local extracellular medium and t...
1163. ...e medium and electrons in the electrode. However, when placed in neural tissue the opening of an ion channel results in the net flow of ions into the cell from the extracellular medium, or out of the **cell** into the extracellular medium. These local currents result in larger changes in the electrical potential between the local extracellular medium and the interior of the recording electrode. The overal...
1164. ...tes and the soma tend to cancel out with diametrically opposite dendrites, this configuration is called a closed field geometrical arrangement. As a result the net potential difference over the whole **cell** when the dendrites are simultaneously activated tends to be very small. Thus changes in the local field potential represent simultaneous dendritic events in cells in the open field configuration. Par...
1165. ...m to electromigration and slow diffusion. In biological organisms, ion channels regulate the flow of ions (for example, sodium, calcium, potassium) across the membrane in all cells. The membrane of a **cell** is assumed to act like a capacitor. Current densities are usually expressed in pA⋅pF (picoamperes per picofarad) (i.e., current divided by capacitance). Techniques exist to empirically measure capaci...
1166. ...Existing and future negative-ion-based neutral beam systems (N-NBI) are listed in the following table: Neutralisation of the precursor ion beam is commonly performed by passing the beam through a gas **cell**. For a precursor negative-ion beam at fusion-relevant energies, the key collisional processes are: Underline indicates the fast particles, while subscripts "i", "j" of the cross-section formula_4 ind...
1167. ...ackground gas density shall be minimised all along the beam path (i.e. within the accelerating electrodes, along the duct connecting to the fusion plasma) to minimise losses except in the neutraliser **cell**. Therefore, the required target thickness for neutralisation is obtained by injecting gas in a cell with two open ends. A peaked density profile is realised along the cell, when injection occurs at m...
1168. ...rodes, along the duct connecting to the fusion plasma) to minimise losses except in the neutraliser cell. Therefore, the required target thickness for neutralisation is obtained by injecting gas in a **cell** with two open ends. A peaked density profile is realised along the cell, when injection occurs at mid-length. For a given gas throughput formula_13 [Pa·m/s], the maximum gas pressure at the centre of...
1169. ...s except in the neutraliser cell. Therefore, the required target thickness for neutralisation is obtained by injecting gas in a cell with two open ends. A peaked density profile is realised along the **cell**, when injection occurs at mid-length. For a given gas throughput formula_13 [Pa·m/s], the maximum gas pressure at the centre of the cell depends on the gas conductance formula_14 [m/s]: and formula_1...
1170. ...two open ends. A peaked density profile is realised along the cell, when injection occurs at mid-length. For a given gas throughput formula_13 [Pa·m/s], the maximum gas pressure at the centre of the **cell** depends on the gas conductance formula_14 [m/s]: and formula_14 in molecular-flow regime can be calculated as  with the geometric parameters formula_18, formula_19, formula_20 indicated in figure, fo...
1171. ...adopted, and neutral-beam systems have custom vacuum pumps among the largest ever built, with pumping speeds in the range of million liters per second. If there are no space constraints, a large gas **cell** length formula_18 is adopted, but this solution is unlikely in future devices due to the limited volume inside the bioshield protecting from energetic neutron flux (for instance, in the case of JT-60...
1172. ...opted, but this solution is unlikely in future devices due to the limited volume inside the bioshield protecting from energetic neutron flux (for instance, in the case of JT-60U the N-NBI neutraliser **cell** is about 15 m long, while in the ITER HNB its length is limited to 3 m). Bhabha scattering In quantum electrodynamics, Bhabha scattering is the electron-positron scattering process: There are two lea...
1173. ...h in the hope that the powerful jolt might cure them. A group of objects found in Iraq in 1938 dated to the early centuries AD (Sassanid Mesopotamia), called the Baghdad Battery, resembles a galvanic **cell** and is believed by some to have been used for electroplating. The claims are controversial because of supporting evidence and theories for the uses of the artifacts, physical evidence on the objects...
1174. ...ely, the "open" and the "closed", or "constant", type. The open type in brief is that type which operated on closed circuit becomes, after a short time, polarized; that is, gases are liberated in the **cell** which settle on the negative plate and establish a resistance that reduces the current strength. After a brief interval of open circuit these gases are eliminated or absorbed and the cell is again re...
1175. ...ated in the cell which settle on the negative plate and establish a resistance that reduces the current strength. After a brief interval of open circuit these gases are eliminated or absorbed and the **cell** is again ready for operation. Closed circuit cells are those in which the gases in the cells are absorbed as quickly as liberated and hence the output of the cell is practically uniform. The Leclanch...
1176. ...s are eliminated or absorbed and the cell is again ready for operation. Closed circuit cells are those in which the gases in the cells are absorbed as quickly as liberated and hence the output of the **cell** is practically uniform. The Leclanché and Daniell cells, respectively, are familiar examples of the "open" and "closed" type of voltaic cell. Batteries of the Daniell or "gravity" type were employed...
1177. ...sorbed as quickly as liberated and hence the output of the cell is practically uniform. The Leclanché and Daniell cells, respectively, are familiar examples of the "open" and "closed" type of voltaic **cell**. Batteries of the Daniell or "gravity" type were employed almost generally in the United States and Canada as the source of electromotive force in telegraphy before the dynamo machine became availabl...
1178. ...complete one turn. In analogy to the pitch of screw thread, the period of repetition is known as the "pitch" of the helimagnet. If the spiral's period is some rational multiple of the crystal's unit **cell**, the structure is commensurate, like the structure originally proposed for MnO. On the other hand, if the multiple is irrational, the magnetism is incommensurate, like the updated MnO structure. Heli...
1179. ...at least allow the computer to be shut down gracefully. These batteries are often large valve regulated lead-acid batteries in smaller or portable systems. Data center UPS backup batteries may be wet **cell** lead-acid or nickel cadmium batteries, with lithium ion cells available in some ratings.  Server-grade disk array controllers often contain onboard disk buffer, and provide an option for a "backup ba...
1180. ...rn's assistant and one of the few who knows of Oscorp's connections to the Kingpin. Electrosynthesis In electrochemistry, electrosynthesis is the synthesis of chemical compounds in an electrochemical **cell**. Compared to ordinary redox reactions, electrosynthesis sometimes offers improved selectivity and yields. Electrosynthesis is actively studied as a science and also has industrial applications. Elect...
1181. ...ctrosynthesis is actively studied as a science and also has industrial applications. Electrooxidation has potential for wastewater treatment as well. The basic setup in electrosynthesis is a galvanic **cell**, a potentiostat and two electrodes. Typical solvent and electrolyte combinations minimizes electrical resistance. Protic conditions often use alcohol-water or dioxane-water solvent mixtures with an e...
1182. ...perchlorate or tetrabutylammonium salts. The choice of electrodes with respect to their composition and surface area can be decisive. For example, in aqueous conditions the competing reactions in the **cell** are the formation of oxygen at the anode and hydrogen at the cathode. In this case a graphite anode and lead cathode could be used effectively because of their high overpotentials for oxygen and hydr...
1183. ...agnesium, mercury (as a liquid pool in the reactor), stainless steel or reticulated vitreous carbon. Some reactions use a sacrificial electrode that is consumed during the reaction like zinc or lead. **Cell** designs can be undivided cell or divided cell type. In divided cells the cathode and anode chambers are separated with a semiporous membrane. Common membrane materials include sintered glass, porous...
1184. ...pool in the reactor), stainless steel or reticulated vitreous carbon. Some reactions use a sacrificial electrode that is consumed during the reaction like zinc or lead. Cell designs can be undivided **cell** or divided cell type. In divided cells the cathode and anode chambers are separated with a semiporous membrane. Common membrane materials include sintered glass, porous porcelain, polytetrafluoroethe...
1185. ...ctor), stainless steel or reticulated vitreous carbon. Some reactions use a sacrificial electrode that is consumed during the reaction like zinc or lead. Cell designs can be undivided cell or divided **cell** type. In divided cells the cathode and anode chambers are separated with a semiporous membrane. Common membrane materials include sintered glass, porous porcelain, polytetrafluoroethene or polypropyl...
1186. ...ode and anode chambers are separated with a semiporous membrane. Common membrane materials include sintered glass, porous porcelain, polytetrafluoroethene or polypropylene. The purpose of the divided **cell** is to permit the diffusion of ions while restricting the flow of the products and reactants. This separation simplifies workup. An example of a reaction requiring a divided cell is the reduction of n...
1187. ...urpose of the divided cell is to permit the diffusion of ions while restricting the flow of the products and reactants. This separation simplifies workup. An example of a reaction requiring a divided **cell** is the reduction of nitrobenzene to phenylhydroxylamine, where the latter chemical is susceptible to oxidation at the anode. Organic oxidations take place at the anode. Compounds are reduced at the c...
1188. ...s expressed both in terms of the chemical yield and current efficiency. Current efficiency is the ratio of Coulombs consumed in forming the products to the total number of Coulombs passed through the **cell**. Side reactions decrease the current efficiency. The potential drop between the electrodes determines the rate constant of the reaction. Electrosynthesis is carried out with either constant potential...
1189. ...e reason one chooses one over the other is due to a trade-off of ease of experimental conditions versus current efficiency. Constant potential uses current more efficiently because the current in the **cell** decreases with time due to the depletion of the substrate around the working electrode (stirring is usually necessary to decrease the diffusion layer around the electrode). This is not the case under...
1190. ...ry to decrease the diffusion layer around the electrode). This is not the case under constant current conditions, however. Instead, as the substrate's concentration decreases the potential across the **cell** increases in order to maintain the fixed reaction rate. This consumes current in side reactions produced outside the target voltage. and the reduction of 2-methoxynaphthalene:  or If the feed is and...
1191. ...ensional infinite lattice is known to be self-similar and fractal, as demonstrated in Hofstadter's butterfly. For an integer ratio of the magnetic flux quantum and the magnetic flux through a lattice **cell**, one recovers the Landau levels for large integers. The energy spectrum of the semiconductor in a strong magnetic field forms Landau levels that can be labeled by integer indices. In addition, the Ha...
1192. ...een appearing all around the earth, and accidentally kills a police officer who shot at her by deflecting the bullets back into him. At Prodigy's request she turns herself in and is kept in a holding **cell**. But when she is accosted by men outside the cell, who attempted to interrogate her as to the nature of the Worthy, Cloud 9 arrives to rescue her and subdues the men. After defeating Quicksand, who w...
1193. ...ly kills a police officer who shot at her by deflecting the bullets back into him. At Prodigy's request she turns herself in and is kept in a holding cell. But when she is accosted by men outside the **cell**, who attempted to interrogate her as to the nature of the Worthy, Cloud 9 arrives to rescue her and subdues the men. After defeating Quicksand, who was on a murder spree, they joined in the battle ag...
1194. ...te from lunar materials. Some proposed techniques include the lunar mass driver and the lunar space elevator, first described by Jerome Pearson. It would require establishing silicon mining and solar **cell** manufacturing facilities on the Moon. Physicist Dr David Criswell suggests the Moon is the optimum location for solar power stations, and promotes lunar-based solar power. The main advantage he envis...
1195. ...ction or 99.9999% effective, instead of sterilization. This takes into consideration a phenomenon known as light and dark repair (photoreactivation and base excision repair, respectively), in which a **cell** can repair DNA that has been damaged by UV light. Many UVGI systems use UV wavelengths that can be harmful to humans, resulting in both immediate and long-term effects. Acute impacts on the eyes and...
1196. ...de to charge the floating gate. This charge alters the MOS transistor threshold voltage to represent a logic '0' state. An uncharged floating gate represents a '1' state. Erasing the NOR Flash memory **cell** removes stored charge through the process of Fowler–Nordheim tunneling. Because of the damage to the oxide caused by normal NOR Flash operation, HCI damage is one of the factors that cause the number...
1197. ...hours escaping Monica's traps and torture devices, O'Grady manipulates Anethesia into helping him save Foster by pretending to sell out the Avengers. They stall enough for the Avengers to attack the **cell** and rescue them before Pym causes the enemy ship to teleport to Earth-9939. On a mission against Father (the creator of the World facility) with the Secret Avengers, O'Grady is seemingly beaten to de...
1198. ...ganic cathode/anode materials. For this reason, the best organic electrolytes should be characterized by a wider range of electrochemical window, "i.e.", greater than the working range of the battery **cell** voltage. For example, the electrochemical window of Lithium bis- (trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide, commercially known as LiTFSI is about 3.0 V because it can operate in the range of 1.9 -4.9 V. On the...
1199. ...edles are often weighted during manufacture to compensate for magnetic dip, so that they will balance roughly horizontally. This balancing is latitude-dependent; see Compass balancing (magnetic dip). **Cell** notation In electrochemistry, cell notation or cell representation is a shorthand method of expressing a reaction in an electrochemical cell.  In cell notation, the two half-cells are described by wr...
1200. ...ufacture to compensate for magnetic dip, so that they will balance roughly horizontally. This balancing is latitude-dependent; see Compass balancing (magnetic dip). Cell notation In electrochemistry, **cell** notation or cell representation is a shorthand method of expressing a reaction in an electrochemical cell.  In cell notation, the two half-cells are described by writing the formula of each individua...
1201. ...nsate for magnetic dip, so that they will balance roughly horizontally. This balancing is latitude-dependent; see Compass balancing (magnetic dip). Cell notation In electrochemistry, cell notation or **cell** representation is a shorthand method of expressing a reaction in an electrochemical cell.  In cell notation, the two half-cells are described by writing the formula of each individual chemical specie...
1202. ...latitude-dependent; see Compass balancing (magnetic dip). Cell notation In electrochemistry, cell notation or cell representation is a shorthand method of expressing a reaction in an electrochemical **cell**.  In cell notation, the two half-cells are described by writing the formula of each individual chemical species involved in the redox reaction across the cell, with all other common ions and inert su...
1203. ...dependent; see Compass balancing (magnetic dip). Cell notation In electrochemistry, cell notation or cell representation is a shorthand method of expressing a reaction in an electrochemical cell.  In **cell** notation, the two half-cells are described by writing the formula of each individual chemical species involved in the redox reaction across the cell, with all other common ions and inert substances b...
1204. ...ressing a reaction in an electrochemical cell.  In cell notation, the two half-cells are described by writing the formula of each individual chemical species involved in the redox reaction across the **cell**, with all other common ions and inert substances being ignored. Each species is separated by a vertical bar, with the species in each half-cell grouped together, and the two half-cells separated by t...
1205. ...mical species involved in the redox reaction across the cell, with all other common ions and inert substances being ignored. Each species is separated by a vertical bar, with the species in each half-**cell** grouped together, and the two half-cells separated by two bars or slashes representing a salt bridge (which generally contains an electrolyte solution such as potassium nitrate or sodium chloride tha...
1206. ...odium chloride that is left unwritten). It is common practice to represent the anode to the left of the double bar and the cathode to the right, and to put aqueous species closest to the double bar.  **Cell** notation may be used to represent other information that is not essential to the reaction but still useful to include. For example, the electrode's species may be marked by a degree symbol. The stand...
1207. ...t, cathode) is composed of a silver wire covered by a silver chloride layer which is not soluble. Both of the electrodes are immersed into aqueous media where zinc and chloride ions are present. This **cell** is very famous: the Daniell cell. If the electrodes are connected, a spontaneous reaction takes place. Zinc is oxidized, and copper ions are reduced. Sometimes the state of each species into the cell...
1208. ...er wire covered by a silver chloride layer which is not soluble. Both of the electrodes are immersed into aqueous media where zinc and chloride ions are present. This cell is very famous: the Daniell **cell**. If the electrodes are connected, a spontaneous reaction takes place. Zinc is oxidized, and copper ions are reduced. Sometimes the state of each species into the cell is written. For example, in the...
1209. ...cell is very famous: the Daniell cell. If the electrodes are connected, a spontaneous reaction takes place. Zinc is oxidized, and copper ions are reduced. Sometimes the state of each species into the **cell** is written. For example, in the zinc cell (shown above), we can write that zinc, silver and silver chloride are solids, while zinc cation and chloride anion are in aqueous medium. So, the new notatio...
1210. ...the electrodes are connected, a spontaneous reaction takes place. Zinc is oxidized, and copper ions are reduced. Sometimes the state of each species into the cell is written. For example, in the zinc **cell** (shown above), we can write that zinc, silver and silver chloride are solids, while zinc cation and chloride anion are in aqueous medium. So, the new notation will be: It is possible to express the i...
1211. ...silver chloride are solids, while zinc cation and chloride anion are in aqueous medium. So, the new notation will be: It is possible to express the ion concentration too. For example, in the Galvanic **cell**: In this case, all ions (sulfate, zinc and copper) are in a concentration equal to 1 mol/L. Hans Christian Ørsted Hans Christian Ørsted (; ; often rendered Oersted in English; 14 August 1777 – 9 Marc...
1212. ...eld, electrons scatter in this region. They claimed that this scattering leads to a monoenergetic distribution, like the one shown in Figure 6. This argument is supported by 2 dimensional particle-in-**cell** simulations. Bussard argued that constant electron injection would have the same effect. Such a distribution would help maintain a negative voltage in the center, improving performance. Nuclear fusio...
1213. ...he paper analyzed polywell magnetic confinement using analytical solutions and simulations. The work linked the polywell magnetic confinement to magnetic mirror theory. The 2011 work used Particle-in-**cell** simulations to model particle motion in polywells with a small electron population. Electrons behaved in a similar manner to particles in the biconic cusp. A 2013 paper measured a negative voltage in...
1214. ...had allocated "$8 million" to inertial electrostatic confinement research and about half had been spent. The funded group published a paper in the "Journal of Fusion Energy", stating that particle-in-**cell** simulations of a polywell had been conducted. The study suggested that well depths and ion focus control can be achieved by variations of field strength, and referenced older research with traditiona...
1215. ...traditional fusors. The group had run a fusor in continuous mode at −140 kV and 70 mA of current, with D-D fuel, producing 2×10 neutrons per second. Researchers performed Vlasov–Poisson, particle-in-**cell** simulation work on the polywell. This was funded through the National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowship and was presented at the 2013 American Physical Society conference. Convergen...
1216. ...in (FDTD) algorithm, and can also work with electrostatic or magneto-static fields. Particles within Vorpal, whether charged or neutral, can be modeled as a fluid or kinetically using the Particle-in-**Cell** (PIC) algorithm. The engine ensures these particles interact self-consistently with fields. It can also simulate the interaction of particles and fields with a variety of structures, including conduc...
1217. ...t self-consistently with fields. It can also simulate the interaction of particles and fields with a variety of structures, including conductors, particle absorbers, reflectors, and others, using cut-**cell** techniques to maintain accuracy. The computational domain in Vorpal offers flexibility with boundary conditions, supporting periodic domains or boundaries that can simulate an infinite space using Pe...
1218. ...ities which is useful for detection in biological systems. Radiolabeling is a technique used to track the passage of a molecule that incorporates a radioisotope through a reaction, metabolic pathway, **cell**, tissue, organism, or biological system. The reactant is 'labeled' by replacing specific atoms by their isotope. Replacing an atom with its own radioisotope is an intrinsic label that does not alter...
1219. ...hibitory potentials. As an action potential travels through the presynaptic neuron, the membrane depolarization causes voltage-gated calcium channels to open. Consequently, calcium ions flow into the **cell**, promoting neurotransmitter-filled vesicles to travel down to the terminal button. These vesicles fuse with the membrane, releasing the neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft. The released neurotra...
1220. ...it has been initiated. First, we must need an understanding of how the actual neuron creates this difference across its membrane. It does this first by having a strong dependence on ions both in the **cell** and outside of the cell. The ion potassium (K+) is the most important ion for this process of setting the membrane potential which the difference in potential across the inner and outer portion of th...
1221. ...First, we must need an understanding of how the actual neuron creates this difference across its membrane. It does this first by having a strong dependence on ions both in the cell and outside of the **cell**. The ion potassium (K+) is the most important ion for this process of setting the membrane potential which the difference in potential across the inner and outer portion of the neuron. The second mos...
1222. ...the membrane potential which the difference in potential across the inner and outer portion of the neuron. The second most important ion is sodium (Na+) and this ion is most prominent outside of the **cell**. When there is a greater concentration of sodium ions outside of the cell and a greater concentration of potassium ions inside of the cell this will cause a slight negative charge to be present withi...
1223. ...and outer portion of the neuron. The second most important ion is sodium (Na+) and this ion is most prominent outside of the cell. When there is a greater concentration of sodium ions outside of the **cell** and a greater concentration of potassium ions inside of the cell this will cause a slight negative charge to be present within the cell. This difference across the membrane is what the neuron uses to...
1224. ...s sodium (Na+) and this ion is most prominent outside of the cell. When there is a greater concentration of sodium ions outside of the cell and a greater concentration of potassium ions inside of the **cell** this will cause a slight negative charge to be present within the cell. This difference across the membrane is what the neuron uses to actually do the work of sending messages from the axon hillock o...
1225. ...there is a greater concentration of sodium ions outside of the cell and a greater concentration of potassium ions inside of the cell this will cause a slight negative charge to be present within the **cell**. This difference across the membrane is what the neuron uses to actually do the work of sending messages from the axon hillock of the neuron all the way down to the presynaptic terminal and then on t...
1226. ...joints. The treatment lasts about 15 minutes. In addition to full galvanic baths, when the patient's body is fully immersed in water, there are also "four-chambered galvanic baths" (also called "four **cell** galvanic baths"), which also combine electrical energy and hydrotherapy, but are used only on the limbs. Patient's forearms and lower legs are put in water trays, and electric current is passed throu...
1227. ...lied electromagnetic field not otherwise available in conventional materials. For example, an effect such as negative permeability is produced with a periodic array of split ring resonators. A single-**cell** SRR has a pair of enclosed loops with splits in them at opposite ends. The loops are made of nonmagnetic metal like copper and have a small gap between them. The loops can be concentric or square, an...
1228. ...ls. Where d is the spacing of the concentric conducting sheets. The final design replaces the double concentric cylinders with a pair of flat concentric c-shaped sheets, placed on each side of a unit **cell**. The unit cells are stacked on top of each other by a length, l. The final result of the effective permeability can be seen below. where c is the thickness of the c-shaped sheet and formula_3 is the...
1229. ...RRs was used for the first demonstration of a negative index of refraction. For this demonstration, "square shaped SRRs", with the lined wire configurations, were fabricated into a periodic, arrayed, **cell** structure. This is the substance of the metamaterial. Then a metamaterial prism was cut from this material. The prism experiment demonstrated a negative index of refraction for the first time in the...
1230. ...have a gap in each ring. In other words, with a double ring structure, each ring has a gap. There is the "1-D Split-Ring Structure" with two square rings, one inside the other. One set of cited "unit **cell**" dimensions would be an outer square of 2.62 mm and an inner square of 0.25 mm. 1-D structures such as this are easier to fabricate compared with constructing a rigid 2-D structure. The "Symmetrical-...
1231. ...metrical-Ring Structure" is another classic example. Described by the nomenclature these are two rectangular square D type configurations, exactly the same size, lying flat, side by side, in the unit **cell**. Also these are not concentric. One set of cited dimensions are 2 mm on the shorter side, and 3.12 mm on the longer side. The gaps in each ring face each other, in the unit cell. The "Omega Structure...
1232. ...by side, in the unit cell. Also these are not concentric. One set of cited dimensions are 2 mm on the shorter side, and 3.12 mm on the longer side. The gaps in each ring face each other, in the unit **cell**. The "Omega Structure", as the nomenclature describes, has an Ω-shaped ring structure. There are two of these, standing vertical, side by side, instead of lying flat, in the unit cell. In 2005 these...
1233. ...er, in the unit cell. The "Omega Structure", as the nomenclature describes, has an Ω-shaped ring structure. There are two of these, standing vertical, side by side, instead of lying flat, in the unit **cell**. In 2005 these were considered to be a new type of metamaterial. One set of cited dimensions are annular parameters of R=1.4 mm and r=1 mm, and the straight edge is 3.33 mm. Another new metamaterial...
1234. ...meters of R=1.4 mm and r=1 mm, and the straight edge is 3.33 mm. Another new metamaterial in 2005 was a coupled S-shaped structure. There are two vertical S-shaped structures, side by side, in a unit **cell**. There is no gap as in the ring structure; however, there is a space between the top and middle parts of the S and space between the middle part and bottom part of the S. Furthermore, it still has th...
1235. ...s of having an electric plasma frequency and a magnetic resonant frequency. On May 1, 2000, research was published about an experiment which involved conducting wires placed symmetrically within each **cell** of a periodic split-ring resonator array. This effectively achieved negative permeability and permittivity for electromagnetic waves in the microwave regime. The concept was and still is used to buil...
1236. ...c crosses, or an ever-widening concentric ring structures known as Swiss rolls. Permeability for only the red wavelength at 780 nm has been analyzed and along with other related work. Patterson power **cell** The Patterson power cell is a cold fusion device invented by chemist James A. Patterson, which he claimed created 200 times more energy than it used. Patterson claimed the device neutralized radioact...
1237. ...ening concentric ring structures known as Swiss rolls. Permeability for only the red wavelength at 780 nm has been analyzed and along with other related work. Patterson power cell The Patterson power **cell** is a cold fusion device invented by chemist James A. Patterson, which he claimed created 200 times more energy than it used. Patterson claimed the device neutralized radioactivity without emitting an...
1238. ...f mainstream science. Physicist Robert L. Park describes the device as fringe science in his book "Voodoo Science". In 1995, Clean Energy Technologies Inc. was formed to produce and promote the power **cell**. Patterson variously said it produced a hundred or two hundred times more power than it used. Representatives promoting the device at the Power-Gen '95 Conference said that an input of 1 watt would g...
1239. ...a neutron, were not detected in any reliable way, leading experts to think that no such fusion was taking place. It was further claimed that if radioactive isotopes such as uranium were present, the **cell** enables the hydrogen nuclei to fuse with these isotopes, transforming them into stable elements and thus neutralizing the radioactivity. It was claimed that the transformation would be achieved witho...
1240. ...unsuccessful, and not only did it inherit the label of pathological science, but it managed to make cold fusion look a little more pathological in the public eye. Some cold fusion proponents view the **cell** as a confirmation of their work, while critics see it as "the fringe of the fringe of cold fusion research", since it attempts to commercialize cold fusion on top of making bad science. In 2002, John...
1241. ...to investigate the cold fusion claims of Fleischmann and Pons, and who wrote a book about the controversy, said "I would be willing to bet there's nothing to it", when asked about the Patterson Power **Cell**. George H. Miley is a professor of nuclear engineering and a cold fusion researcher who claims to have replicated the Patterson power cell. During the 2011 World Green Energy Symposium, Miley stated...
1242. ...there's nothing to it", when asked about the Patterson Power Cell. George H. Miley is a professor of nuclear engineering and a cold fusion researcher who claims to have replicated the Patterson power **cell**. During the 2011 World Green Energy Symposium, Miley stated that his device continuously produces several hundred watts of power. Earlier results by Miley have not convinced researchers. On "Good Mor...
1243. ...earchers. On "Good Morning America", Quintin Bowles, professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Missouri–Kansas City, claimed in 1996 to have successfully replicated the Patterson power **cell**. In the book "Voodoo Science", Bowles is quoted as having stated: "It works, we just don't know how it works." A replication has been attempted at Earthtech, using a CETI supplied kit. They were not...
1244. ...symbols is used, formula_32: the angle between the acoustic wave vector and the crystallographic axis "z" of the crystal; formula_33: the wedge angle between the input and output faces of the filter **cell** (the wedge angle is necessary for eliminating the angular shift of the diffracted beam caused by frequency changing); formula_34: the angle between the incident light wave vector and [110] axis of th...
1245. ...t of the diffracted beam caused by frequency changing); formula_34: the angle between the incident light wave vector and [110] axis of the crystal; formula_35: the angle between the input face of the **cell** and acoustic wave vector; formula_36: the angle between deflected and non-deflected light at the central frequency; formula_37: the transducer length.  The incidence angle formula_34 and the central...
1246. ...mode waves because the density and magnetic field are in phase, whereas the slow mode wave components are out of phase. The original research on MHD shock waves can be found in the following papers. **Cell** survival curve The cell survival curve is a curve often used in radiobiology that represents the relationship between the amount of cells retaining reproductive capabilities and the absorbed dose of...
1247. ...density and magnetic field are in phase, whereas the slow mode wave components are out of phase. The original research on MHD shock waves can be found in the following papers. Cell survival curve The **cell** survival curve is a curve often used in radiobiology that represents the relationship between the amount of cells retaining reproductive capabilities and the absorbed dose of radiation from said cell...
1248. ...ies and the absorbed dose of radiation from said cells. Tumor cells are able to grow infinitely, while normal cells must undergo treatment in order to grow indefinitely (see Cellular senescence). The **cell** survival curve refers to specific quantities of radiation that affect a cell's ability to reproduce. Very high amounts of radiation (10,000 rads or 100 Gy) can cause complete abatement of cellular fu...
1249. ...to grow infinitely, while normal cells must undergo treatment in order to grow indefinitely (see Cellular senescence). The cell survival curve refers to specific quantities of radiation that affect a **cell**'s ability to reproduce. Very high amounts of radiation (10,000 rads or 100 Gy) can cause complete abatement of cellular function (cell death). These values are much larger when compared to the mean l...
1250. ...l curve refers to specific quantities of radiation that affect a cell's ability to reproduce. Very high amounts of radiation (10,000 rads or 100 Gy) can cause complete abatement of cellular function (**cell** death). These values are much larger when compared to the mean lethal dose of around 2 Gy that is required for loss of reproductive function. In order to gain an accurate estimate of the reproductive...
1251. ...e of the reproductive viability of cells in the face of radioactive stimulus, cells are generally subject to a Clonogenic assay. There are two generally accepted models that show significance towards **cell**-survival curves: the multi-hit (target theory) model and the repair model. The first mammalian cell radiation survival curve was developed by Puck and Marcus in 1956 examining the actions of x-rays o...
1252. ...bject to a Clonogenic assay. There are two generally accepted models that show significance towards cell-survival curves: the multi-hit (target theory) model and the repair model. The first mammalian **cell** radiation survival curve was developed by Puck and Marcus in 1956 examining the actions of x-rays on mammalian cells using HeLa cells. Clonogenic survival assays are generally used to garner data for...
1253. ...diation survival curve was developed by Puck and Marcus in 1956 examining the actions of x-rays on mammalian cells using HeLa cells. Clonogenic survival assays are generally used to garner data for a **cell** survival curve. Clonogenic survival assays begin by harvesting from a growing cell stock through gentle scraping and application of Trypsin. Cells are then counted per unit volume manually (through a...
1254. ...ns of x-rays on mammalian cells using HeLa cells. Clonogenic survival assays are generally used to garner data for a cell survival curve. Clonogenic survival assays begin by harvesting from a growing **cell** stock through gentle scraping and application of Trypsin. Cells are then counted per unit volume manually (through application of Hemocytometer) or electrically. Cells are then isolated and incubated...
1255. ...trically. Cells are then isolated and incubated for a 1-2 week period. The plating efficiency is determined by the ratio of colonies observed and colonies plated. When viewing this in relation to the **cell** survival curve, separate cells are then plated parallel with increasing doses of radiation. Surviving fraction is the ratio between the number of colonies that survive said doses of radiation divided...
1256. ...easing doses of radiation. Surviving fraction is the ratio between the number of colonies that survive said doses of radiation divided by the cells seeded when taking plating efficiency into account. **Cell** survival curves are generally plotted as a Logarithmic surviving fraction of cells versus a linear dose of Radiation. There are two basic types of cell survival curves: Linear (exponential) or curved...
1257. ...ed when taking plating efficiency into account. Cell survival curves are generally plotted as a Logarithmic surviving fraction of cells versus a linear dose of Radiation. There are two basic types of **cell** survival curves: Linear (exponential) or curved. Linear survival curves reflect cells irradiated with high LET radiation. The relationship between the surviving fraction (S) and the dose (D) is S = e...
1258. ...D0 represents 1/a. When the dosage is equal to 1/A, S = 0.37 (or e^-1). For this reason, D0 is often called the mean lethal dose, the dose that creates one lethal event per target on average. Curved **cell** survival curves (cells exposed to low-LET radiation) show two distinct regions: low dose regions and high dose regions. The low-dose region is often referred to as the “shoulder”, and in this region...
1259. ...(cells exposed to low-LET radiation) show two distinct regions: low dose regions and high dose regions. The low-dose region is often referred to as the “shoulder”, and in this region there are fewer **cell** inactivations per unit dose. The high-dose region generally trends towards a straight line. Two general interpretations have been made on the differences between the low-dose region and the high dose...
1260. ...pretation reflects the efficiency of enzymatic repair diminishing with increased numbers of lesions, often referring to repair models. Target Theory, often called the “multi hit model” when examining **cell** radiation, examines how ionizing radiation affects biological cell functions or survival. Target theory shows many different types of models that help to explain the role radiation plays in cell deat...
1261. ...ith increased numbers of lesions, often referring to repair models. Target Theory, often called the “multi hit model” when examining cell radiation, examines how ionizing radiation affects biological **cell** functions or survival. Target theory shows many different types of models that help to explain the role radiation plays in cell death or injury. The single-target single-hit model states that there i...
1262. ...ning cell radiation, examines how ionizing radiation affects biological cell functions or survival. Target theory shows many different types of models that help to explain the role radiation plays in **cell** death or injury. The single-target single-hit model states that there is a single target that must be hit by radiation in order to inactive a cell. Essentially, radiation targeting in this model is r...
1263. ...els that help to explain the role radiation plays in cell death or injury. The single-target single-hit model states that there is a single target that must be hit by radiation in order to inactive a **cell**. Essentially, radiation targeting in this model is random and must hit a specific location on the cell, such as the DNA, to inactivate it. The model that better aligns with Eukaryotic cells and the c...
1264. ...model states that there is a single target that must be hit by radiation in order to inactive a cell. Essentially, radiation targeting in this model is random and must hit a specific location on the **cell**, such as the DNA, to inactivate it. The model that better aligns with Eukaryotic cells and the cell survival curve is the multi-target model. This model takes into account that there are multiple key...
1265. ...l. Essentially, radiation targeting in this model is random and must hit a specific location on the cell, such as the DNA, to inactivate it. The model that better aligns with Eukaryotic cells and the **cell** survival curve is the multi-target model. This model takes into account that there are multiple key components of the cell that must each be damaged with radiation in order to inactivate the cell. Th...
1266. ...to inactivate it. The model that better aligns with Eukaryotic cells and the cell survival curve is the multi-target model. This model takes into account that there are multiple key components of the **cell** that must each be damaged with radiation in order to inactivate the cell. This introduces the “shoulder” seen in cell survival curves that represents the cell’s initial resistance to damage at lower...
1267. ...the cell survival curve is the multi-target model. This model takes into account that there are multiple key components of the cell that must each be damaged with radiation in order to inactivate the **cell**. This introduces the “shoulder” seen in cell survival curves that represents the cell’s initial resistance to damage at lower doses of radiation before a linear curve is present over at higher doses....
1268. ...odel. This model takes into account that there are multiple key components of the cell that must each be damaged with radiation in order to inactivate the cell. This introduces the “shoulder” seen in **cell** survival curves that represents the cell’s initial resistance to damage at lower doses of radiation before a linear curve is present over at higher doses. Repair models have generally been brought ab...
1269. ...there are multiple key components of the cell that must each be damaged with radiation in order to inactivate the cell. This introduces the “shoulder” seen in cell survival curves that represents the **cell**’s initial resistance to damage at lower doses of radiation before a linear curve is present over at higher doses. Repair models have generally been brought about to scientific discussion in this scen...
1270. ...r curve is present over at higher doses. Repair models have generally been brought about to scientific discussion in this scenario through the presence of the “shoulder” in low LET dose cells (curved **cell**-survival models). The shoulder of a low LET dose cell survival curve represents the point in which low doses of radiation do not diminish cell’s survivability to a point where an accumulation of said...
1271. ...have generally been brought about to scientific discussion in this scenario through the presence of the “shoulder” in low LET dose cells (curved cell-survival models). The shoulder of a low LET dose **cell** survival curve represents the point in which low doses of radiation do not diminish cell’s survivability to a point where an accumulation of said low dosages can cause a loss of cell reproduction. So...
1272. ...presence of the “shoulder” in low LET dose cells (curved cell-survival models). The shoulder of a low LET dose cell survival curve represents the point in which low doses of radiation do not diminish **cell**’s survivability to a point where an accumulation of said low dosages can cause a loss of cell reproduction. Some damage, fittingly, is thus dubbed “sublethal damage”. The repair model, instead of the...
1273. ...f a low LET dose cell survival curve represents the point in which low doses of radiation do not diminish cell’s survivability to a point where an accumulation of said low dosages can cause a loss of **cell** reproduction. Some damage, fittingly, is thus dubbed “sublethal damage”. The repair model, instead of the target theory, emphasizes how a cell utilizes said cell’s repair mechanisms up to the limit o...
1274. ...an accumulation of said low dosages can cause a loss of cell reproduction. Some damage, fittingly, is thus dubbed “sublethal damage”. The repair model, instead of the target theory, emphasizes how a **cell** utilizes said cell’s repair mechanisms up to the limit of the cell’s repair machinery (the end of the shoulder). After the limit of the cell’s machinery is reached, the repair model generally notes t...
1275. ...said low dosages can cause a loss of cell reproduction. Some damage, fittingly, is thus dubbed “sublethal damage”. The repair model, instead of the target theory, emphasizes how a cell utilizes said **cell**’s repair mechanisms up to the limit of the cell’s repair machinery (the end of the shoulder). After the limit of the cell’s machinery is reached, the repair model generally notes that if any damage i...
1276. ...duction. Some damage, fittingly, is thus dubbed “sublethal damage”. The repair model, instead of the target theory, emphasizes how a cell utilizes said cell’s repair mechanisms up to the limit of the **cell**’s repair machinery (the end of the shoulder). After the limit of the cell’s machinery is reached, the repair model generally notes that if any damage is left unhealed the dying process will be initia...
1277. ...pair model, instead of the target theory, emphasizes how a cell utilizes said cell’s repair mechanisms up to the limit of the cell’s repair machinery (the end of the shoulder). After the limit of the **cell**’s machinery is reached, the repair model generally notes that if any damage is left unhealed the dying process will be initiated. This differs from the target model’s idea that cell death occurs if a...
1278. ...the limit of the cell’s machinery is reached, the repair model generally notes that if any damage is left unhealed the dying process will be initiated. This differs from the target model’s idea that **cell** death occurs if a certain number of targets are hit. Observations of the cell survival curve and the phenomenon of the shoulder help explain a multi-faceted approach towards what causes cell death fr...
1279. ...s that if any damage is left unhealed the dying process will be initiated. This differs from the target model’s idea that cell death occurs if a certain number of targets are hit. Observations of the **cell** survival curve and the phenomenon of the shoulder help explain a multi-faceted approach towards what causes cell death from radiation. Synthesis of the repair models and the target theory help explai...
1280. ...dea that cell death occurs if a certain number of targets are hit. Observations of the cell survival curve and the phenomenon of the shoulder help explain a multi-faceted approach towards what causes **cell** death from radiation. Synthesis of the repair models and the target theory help explain cell death in the face of radiation, noting two different mechanisms. There has been academic debate over exact...
1281. ...urvival curve and the phenomenon of the shoulder help explain a multi-faceted approach towards what causes cell death from radiation. Synthesis of the repair models and the target theory help explain **cell** death in the face of radiation, noting two different mechanisms. There has been academic debate over exact mechanisms facing cell survival in radiation. These models reflect the fact that cell surviv...
1282. ...on. Synthesis of the repair models and the target theory help explain cell death in the face of radiation, noting two different mechanisms. There has been academic debate over exact mechanisms facing **cell** survival in radiation. These models reflect the fact that cell survival fractions are exponential functions with a dose-dependent term in the exponent due to the Poisson statistics underlying the Sto...
1283. ...xplain cell death in the face of radiation, noting two different mechanisms. There has been academic debate over exact mechanisms facing cell survival in radiation. These models reflect the fact that **cell** survival fractions are exponential functions with a dose-dependent term in the exponent due to the Poisson statistics underlying the Stochastic process. The cell survival curve has a multitude of pra...
1284. ...n. These models reflect the fact that cell survival fractions are exponential functions with a dose-dependent term in the exponent due to the Poisson statistics underlying the Stochastic process. The **cell** survival curve has a multitude of practical applications when it comes to Physiology, medicine, etc. One such application is Dose–response relationship, or the examination of the minimum required dos...
1285. ...Physiology, medicine, etc. One such application is Dose–response relationship, or the examination of the minimum required dose of radiation it takes to receive certain therapeutic outcomes including **cell** inactivation. There are clinical applications that highlight things such as Focused ultrasound and Gamma knife surgeries and procedures to treat brain tumors, abnormal blood vessels, etc. These rely...
1286. ...hlight things such as Focused ultrasound and Gamma knife surgeries and procedures to treat brain tumors, abnormal blood vessels, etc. These rely on precision of radiation doses as represented through **cell** survival curves. Radiation treatment has grown in prevalence and the cell survival curve has important implications in many facets of radiation treatments and procedures. Recent research has proposed...
1287. ...cedures to treat brain tumors, abnormal blood vessels, etc. These rely on precision of radiation doses as represented through cell survival curves. Radiation treatment has grown in prevalence and the **cell** survival curve has important implications in many facets of radiation treatments and procedures. Recent research has proposed the idea that HeLa cells damaged with radiation (cells that are unique in...
1288. ...es. Recent research has proposed the idea that HeLa cells damaged with radiation (cells that are unique in that they have short-shouldered survival curves and two peaks of radio resistance during the **cell** cycle phase) show the fact that radio-suppression is mediated by intra-s checkpoints and reduces survival of cells in the s-phase. This information is relatively new and could possibly be extrapolate...
1289. ...rstorm cluster is a thunderstorm that is composed of multiple convective cells, each being at a different stage in the life cycle of a thunderstorm. It appears as several anvils clustered together. A **cell** is an updraft/downdraft couplet. These different cells will dissipate as new cells form and continue the life of the multicellular thunderstorm cluster with each cell taking a turn as the dominant ce...
1290. ...ral anvils clustered together. A cell is an updraft/downdraft couplet. These different cells will dissipate as new cells form and continue the life of the multicellular thunderstorm cluster with each **cell** taking a turn as the dominant cell in the group. The formation of multicellular thunderstorms imply that the updraft in the mother thunderstorm is offset from its downdraft. New cells usually form in...
1291. ...ll is an updraft/downdraft couplet. These different cells will dissipate as new cells form and continue the life of the multicellular thunderstorm cluster with each cell taking a turn as the dominant **cell** in the group. The formation of multicellular thunderstorms imply that the updraft in the mother thunderstorm is offset from its downdraft. New cells usually form in the upwind (usually western or sou...
1292. ...y in the center of the storm, and dissipating cells are usually in the downwind (usually eastern or northeastern) part of the storm. The multicellular cluster can last for hours while each individual **cell** should only last for about 20 to 60 minutes. These storms can sometimes be severe and sometimes have awkward paths due to the thunderstorm sometimes not following the path of the cells that compose i...
1293. ...of this type of thunderstorm is characterized by overhangs of reflectivity in the southwestern part of the cluster. Any severe activity in one of these storms will most likely come from the dominant **cell** near or after its peak updraft strength. This is because there could be severe hail from a strong updraft that lasts only a short period of time, with damaging winds. Rain is an important impact of s...
1294. ...ifference in the amount of rain received in any one location. Individual cells might move downstream but additional cells forming upwind of the cluster can move directly over the path of the previous **cell**, forming training echoes. A multicellular storm can sometimes develop into a mesoscale convective system (MCS) or be a squall line. Updrafts reform new cells continually at the leading edge of system...
1295. ...increasing the output of the photodetector. The output of the photodetector is used as feedback in a frequency locked loop circuit to keep the oscillator at the correct frequency. Conventional vapor **cell** atomic clocks are about the size of a deck of cards, consume about 10 W of electrical power and cost about $3,000. Shrinking these to the size of a semiconductor chip required extensive development a...
1296. ...Platinum black (Pt black) is a fine powder of platinum with good catalytic properties. The name of platinum black is due to its black color. It is used in many ways; as a thin film electrode, a fuel **cell** membrane catalyst, or as a catalytic ignition of flammable gases for "self-lighting' gas lamps, ovens, and stove burners.  Platinum black is widely used as a thin film covering solid platinum metal,...
1297. ...electric fields including AC(alternating current), DC(direct current), and pulsed(deliver high-energy discharges at very short periods) electrical fields. Electromanipulation of cells permits diverse **cell** manipulations with minimal mechanical contact between cells and device structures. Although predominantly used in cells, elctromanipulation also contributes to other scientific fields such as Hybrido...
1298. ...(by DEP) by increasing AC potential Electric field applied: pulsed Purpose: disruption of subcellular structures Condition: non-uniform electric field Theory: ED performs electromanipulation inside a **cell** which has compromised cytoskeletons and a detached nuclei. Deradated cells eject cytosolic contents and become "ghosts"(about 1.5 times the normal cell size). Ghosts can be deflected by pulsed fields...
1299. ...heory: ED performs electromanipulation inside a cell which has compromised cytoskeletons and a detached nuclei. Deradated cells eject cytosolic contents and become "ghosts"(about 1.5 times the normal **cell** size). Ghosts can be deflected by pulsed fields and inflected by ac fields. Electric field applied: pulsed Purpose: lysis (the disintegration of a cell by rupture of the cell wall or membrane.) Condi...
1300. ...and become "ghosts"(about 1.5 times the normal cell size). Ghosts can be deflected by pulsed fields and inflected by ac fields. Electric field applied: pulsed Purpose: lysis (the disintegration of a **cell** by rupture of the cell wall or membrane.) Condition: non-uniform electric field Theory: pDEP is used to increase the occurrence of lysis, and nDEP is used to decrease the occurrence of lysis. Conditi...
1301. ...out 1.5 times the normal cell size). Ghosts can be deflected by pulsed fields and inflected by ac fields. Electric field applied: pulsed Purpose: lysis (the disintegration of a cell by rupture of the **cell** wall or membrane.) Condition: non-uniform electric field Theory: pDEP is used to increase the occurrence of lysis, and nDEP is used to decrease the occurrence of lysis. Conditions of cell lysis can b...
1302. ...ture of the cell wall or membrane.) Condition: non-uniform electric field Theory: pDEP is used to increase the occurrence of lysis, and nDEP is used to decrease the occurrence of lysis. Conditions of **cell** lysis can be studied by switching pulsing amplitudes. Electric field applied: pulsed Purpose: Cell-membrane disruption Condition: non-uniform electric field; dielectrophoretic alignment of cells Theo...
1303. ...ncrease the occurrence of lysis, and nDEP is used to decrease the occurrence of lysis. Conditions of cell lysis can be studied by switching pulsing amplitudes. Electric field applied: pulsed Purpose: **Cell**-membrane disruption Condition: non-uniform electric field; dielectrophoretic alignment of cells Theory: Cell membrane disruption can be achieved by switching amplitude, duration, pulses rate and numb...
1304. ...is can be studied by switching pulsing amplitudes. Electric field applied: pulsed Purpose: Cell-membrane disruption Condition: non-uniform electric field; dielectrophoretic alignment of cells Theory: **Cell** membrane disruption can be achieved by switching amplitude, duration, pulses rate and number of pulses of the pulsed electric field. When cells' membranes are disrupted, some cells merge into one big...
1305. ...membrane disruption can be achieved by switching amplitude, duration, pulses rate and number of pulses of the pulsed electric field. When cells' membranes are disrupted, some cells merge into one big **cell** which can be 3-4 times the size of a normal cell. There are two types of EP: One is irreversible EP which can lead to cytolysis(the bursting of cell membrane when excess water is in the cell); the ot...
1306. ...amplitude, duration, pulses rate and number of pulses of the pulsed electric field. When cells' membranes are disrupted, some cells merge into one big cell which can be 3-4 times the size of a normal **cell**. There are two types of EP: One is irreversible EP which can lead to cytolysis(the bursting of cell membrane when excess water is in the cell); the other is reversible EP which helps maintain cells’...
1307. ...ranes are disrupted, some cells merge into one big cell which can be 3-4 times the size of a normal cell. There are two types of EP: One is irreversible EP which can lead to cytolysis(the bursting of **cell** membrane when excess water is in the cell); the other is reversible EP which helps maintain cells’ vitality while transforming molecules into cells. In the early part of 20th century, discoveries of...
1308. ...one big cell which can be 3-4 times the size of a normal cell. There are two types of EP: One is irreversible EP which can lead to cytolysis(the bursting of cell membrane when excess water is in the **cell**); the other is reversible EP which helps maintain cells’ vitality while transforming molecules into cells. In the early part of 20th century, discoveries of irreversible membrane breakdown and dielec...
1309. ...results in mutation in the nucleus of the hit cells. Cells that are not directly hit by an alpha particle, but are in the vicinity of one that is hit, also contribute to the genotoxic response of the **cell** population. Similarly, when cells are irradiated, and the medium is transferred to unirradiated cells, these unirradiated cells show bystander responses when assayed for clonogenic survival and oncog...
1310. ...s both the need for skilled monitoring of the system as well as the chance for human error in interpreting the data. Air-mass thunderstorm An air-mass thunderstorm, also called an "ordinary", "single **cell**", "isolated" or "garden variety" thunderstorm, is a thunderstorm that is generally weak and usually not severe. These storms form in environments where at least some amount of Convective Available Po...
1311. ...ry which undercuts the storm's low level inflow, and quickly causes dissipation. Waterspouts, small hail, and strong wind gusts can occur in association with these thunderstorms. Also known as single **cell** thunderstorms, these are the typical summer thunderstorms in many temperate locales. They also occur in the cool unstable air which often follows the passage of a cold front from the sea during winte...
1312. ...nderstorms in many temperate locales. They also occur in the cool unstable air which often follows the passage of a cold front from the sea during winter. Within a cluster of thunderstorms, the term "**cell**" refers to each separate principal updraft. Thunderstorm cells occasionally form in isolation, as the occurrence of one thunderstorm can develop an outflow boundary which sets up new thunderstorm dev...
1313. ...e poorly organized due to the minimal vertical wind shear in the storm's environment and occur randomly in time and space, making them difficult to forecast. Between formation and dissipation, single **cell** thunderstorms normally last 20–30 minutes. The two major ways thunderstorms move are via advection of the wind and propagation along outflow boundaries towards sources of greater heat and moisture. M...
1314. ...rms. When thunderstorms merge, which is most likely when numerous thunderstorms exist in proximity to each other, the motion of the stronger thunderstorm normally dictates future motion of the merged **cell**. The stronger the mean wind, the less likely other processes will be involved in storm motion. On weather radar, storms are tracked by using a prominent feature and tracking it from scan to scan. Con...
1315. ...t(CN)]·5HO (3.36 angstroms), Sr[Pt(CN)]·5HO (3.58 angstroms), and Mg[Pt(CN)]·7HO (3.16 angstroms). The Pt-Pt distance in Krogmann's salt is only 0.1 angstroms longer than in platinum metal. Each unit **cell** contains a site for Cl, corresponding to 0.5 Cl per Pt. However, this site is only filled 64% of the time, giving 0.32 Cl per Pt in the actual compound. Because of this, the oxidation number of Pt do...
1316. ...this value. The maximum OER depends mainly on the ionizing density or LET of the radiation. Radiation with higher LET and higher relative biological effectiveness (RBE) have a lower OER in mammalian **cell** tissues. The value of the maximum OER varies from about 1–4. The maximum OER ranges from about 2–4 for low-LET radiations such as X-rays, beta particles and gamma rays, whereas the OER is unity for h...
1317. ...tropic neurotransmitters, via monoaminergic input such as 5-HT and norepinephrine, modulate the activity of dendritic L-type Calcium channels that allow a sustained, positive, inward current into the **cell**. This leads to a lasting depolarisation. In this state, the cell fires action potentials independent of synaptic input. The PICs can be turned off via the activation of high-frequency inhibitory inpu...
1318. ...d norepinephrine, modulate the activity of dendritic L-type Calcium channels that allow a sustained, positive, inward current into the cell. This leads to a lasting depolarisation. In this state, the **cell** fires action potentials independent of synaptic input. The PICs can be turned off via the activation of high-frequency inhibitory input at which point the cell returns to a resting state. Periglomeru...
1319. ...ting depolarisation. In this state, the cell fires action potentials independent of synaptic input. The PICs can be turned off via the activation of high-frequency inhibitory input at which point the **cell** returns to a resting state. Periglomerular cells, inhibitory interneurons that surround and innervate olfactory glomeruli, have also been shown to exhibit plateau potentials. Plateau potentials are a...
1320. ...ormation or breaking of chemical bonds, in a charge-transfer step of an electrochemical reaction. In the battery industry, the term "depolarizer" has been used to denote a substance used in a primary **cell** to prevent buildup of hydrogen gas bubbles. A battery depolarizer takes up electrons during discharge of the cell; therefore, it is always an oxidizing agent. The term "depolarizer" can be considered...
1321. ...ndustry, the term "depolarizer" has been used to denote a substance used in a primary cell to prevent buildup of hydrogen gas bubbles. A battery depolarizer takes up electrons during discharge of the **cell**; therefore, it is always an oxidizing agent. The term "depolarizer" can be considered as outdated or misleading, since it is based on the concept of "polarization" which is hardly realistic in many c...
1322. ...bles of hydrogen gas might appear at one of the electrodes. If such a layer of hydrogen or even H gas bubbles appear on the positive plate of a battery, they interfere with the chemical action of the **cell**. An electrode covered with gases is said to be "polarized". Polarization in galvanic cells causes the voltage and thus current to be reduced, especially if the bubbles cover a large fraction of a pla...
1323. ...e voltage at a high level. However, this concept is outdated, since if enough depolarizer is present, it will react directly in most cases by getting electrons from the positive plate of the galvanic **cell**, i.e. there will be no relevant amount of hydrogen gas present. Therefore, the original concept of polarization does not apply to most batteries, and the depolarizer does not react with hydrogen as H...
1324. ...ia endocytosis and pinocytosis. Consequently, membrane architecture and structure stays intact, in contrast to other physical transfection methods such as electroporation or gene guns that damage the **cell** membrane. The nucleic acids are then released into the cytoplasm by different mechanisms depending upon the formulation used:  Magnetofection works with cells that are not dividing or slowly dividing...
1325. ...the cytoplasm by different mechanisms depending upon the formulation used:  Magnetofection works with cells that are not dividing or slowly dividing, meaning that the genetic materials can go to the **cell** nucleus without cell division. Magnetofection has been tested on a broad range of cell lines, hard-to-transfect and primary cells. Several optimized and efficient magnetic nanoparticle formulations h...
1326. ...ferent mechanisms depending upon the formulation used:  Magnetofection works with cells that are not dividing or slowly dividing, meaning that the genetic materials can go to the cell nucleus without **cell** division. Magnetofection has been tested on a broad range of cell lines, hard-to-transfect and primary cells. Several optimized and efficient magnetic nanoparticle formulations have been specifically...
1327. ...tion works with cells that are not dividing or slowly dividing, meaning that the genetic materials can go to the cell nucleus without cell division. Magnetofection has been tested on a broad range of **cell** lines, hard-to-transfect and primary cells. Several optimized and efficient magnetic nanoparticle formulations have been specifically developed for several types of applications such as DNA, siRNA, a...
1328. ...hat other transfection methods require. After 24, 48 or 72 hours, most of the particles are localized in the cytoplasm, in vacuoles (membranes surrounded structure into cells) and occasionally in the **cell** nucleus. Magnetic nanoparticles do not aggregate easily once the magnet is removed, and therefore are unlikely to block capillaries or cause thrombosis. In addition, iron oxide is biodegradable, and...
1329. ...able, the toxicity of magnetic nanoparticles is still under investigation. Some research has found no signs of damage to cells, while others claim that small (< 2 nm) nanoparticles can diffuse across **cell** membranes and disrupt organelles. In addition, very high concentrations of iron oxide can disrupt homeostasis and lead to iron overload, which can damage or alter DNA, affect cellular responses, and...
1330. ...m behind this effect. It has also been observed that other melanin-rich fungi were discovered in the cooling water from some other working nuclear reactors. The light-absorbing compound in the fungus **cell** membranes had the effect of turning the water black. While there are many cases of extremophiles (organisms that can live in severe conditions such as that of the radioactive power plant), a hypothet...
1331. ...adiation, some non-melanized fungi (that had been mutated in the melanin pathway) grew faster than their melanized counterparts. Limited uptake of nutrients due to the melanin molecules in the fungal **cell** wall or toxic intermediates formed in melanin biosynthesis have been suggested to contribute to this phenomenon. It is consistent with the observation that despite being capable of producing melanin,...
1332. ...uggested melanin-based synthesis of organic compounds or other metabolites for fungal growth, including the chemical intermediates (such as native electron donor and acceptor molecules) in the fungal **cell** and the location and chemical products of this process, are unknown. It is hypothesized that radiotrophic fungi could potentially be used as a shield to protect against radiation, specifically in aff...
1333. ...lant and testing facility, the Lolland Hydrogen Community, began operation in May 2007. It is also the European Union's first full-scale Hydrogen Community Demonstration facility for residential Fuel **Cell** Combined Heat and Power (CHP). Phase 3 of the project that ran until 2012 and was the installing of fuel cell micro combined heat and power plants. Located in the city of Nakskov on the island of Lol...
1334. ...n Union's first full-scale Hydrogen Community Demonstration facility for residential Fuel Cell Combined Heat and Power (CHP). Phase 3 of the project that ran until 2012 and was the installing of fuel **cell** micro combined heat and power plants. Located in the city of Nakskov on the island of Lolland, where wind power is abundant, the hydrogen energy plant was received with funding from the Danish Energy...
1335. ...nd oxygen. The oxygen is used in the municipal water treatment plant nearby to speed up the biological process. The hydrogen is stored in low-pressure storage tanks at six bars and fuels two PEM Fuel **Cell** Micro Combined Heat and Power (CHP) stations of 2 kilowatts (kW) and 6.5 kW, respectively. High-intensity magnetic separator In the recent past the problem of removing the deleterious iron particles...
1336. ...nual power system because as long as the blades turn, power is created. Microbial fuel cells create energy when bacteria break down organic material. This produces a charge that is transferred to the **cell**'s anode. Human saliva, which has much organic material, can be used to power a tiny microbial fuel cell. This can produce sufficient energy to run on-chip applications. This application can be used i...
1337. ...gy when bacteria break down organic material. This produces a charge that is transferred to the cell's anode. Human saliva, which has much organic material, can be used to power a tiny microbial fuel **cell**. This can produce sufficient energy to run on-chip applications. This application can be used in things such as biomedical devices and cell phones. A study evaluated microbial fuel cells to create el...
1338. ...rganic material, can be used to power a tiny microbial fuel cell. This can produce sufficient energy to run on-chip applications. This application can be used in things such as biomedical devices and **cell** phones. A study evaluated microbial fuel cells to create electricity and treat wastewater. During a five-month time period, a sucrose-based solution continuously generated electricity of 170mW/m2. Po...
1339. ...in organic solar cells, where the semiconductors are characterized by low mobility. In these systems, maximizing the carrier lifetime is synonymous to maximizing the efficiency of the device. A solar **cell** is an electrical device in which a semiconductor is exposed to light that is converted into electricity through the photovoltaic effect. Electrons are either excited through the absorption of light,...
1340. ...he absorption of light, or if the band-gap energy of the material can be bridged, electron-hole pairs are created. Simultaneously, a voltage potential is created. The charge carriers within the solar **cell** move through the semiconductor in order to cancel said potential, which is the drifting force that moves the electrons. Also, the electrons can be forced to move by diffusion from higher concentratio...
1341. ...force that moves the electrons. Also, the electrons can be forced to move by diffusion from higher concentration to lower concentration of electrons. In order to maximize the efficiency of the solar **cell**, it is desirable to have as many charge carriers as possible collected at the electrodes of the solar cell. Thus, recombination of electrons (among other factors that influence efficiency) must be av...
1342. ...ration to lower concentration of electrons. In order to maximize the efficiency of the solar cell, it is desirable to have as many charge carriers as possible collected at the electrodes of the solar **cell**. Thus, recombination of electrons (among other factors that influence efficiency) must be avoided. This corresponds to an increase in the carrier lifetime. Surface recombination occurs at the top of...
1343. ...combination of electrons (among other factors that influence efficiency) must be avoided. This corresponds to an increase in the carrier lifetime. Surface recombination occurs at the top of the solar **cell**, which makes it preferable to have layers of material that have great surface passivation properties so as not to become affected by exposure to light over longer periods of time. Additionally, the s...
1344. ...d by which this is done depends on the device, but is usually dependent on measuring the current and voltage. In solar cells, the carrier lifetime can be calculated by illuminating the surface of the **cell**, which induces carrier generation and increases the voltage until it reaches an equilibrium, and subsequently turning off the light source. This causes the voltage to decay at a consistent rate. The...
1345. ...higher amount of recombining carriers resulting in a faster decay. Subsequently, a lower carrier lifetime will result in a faster decay of the voltage. This means that the carrier lifetime of a solar **cell** can be calculated by studying its voltage decay rate. This carrier lifetime is generally expressed as: where formula_4 is the Boltzmann constant, q is the elementary charge, T is the temperature, and...
1346. ...methods that do not suffer from the same recombination mechanisms. In crystalline silicon solar cells, which are particularly common, an important limiting factor is the structural damage done to the **cell** when the transparent conducting film is applied. This is done with "reactive plasma deposition", a form of sputter deposition. In the process of applying this film, defects appear on the silicon laye...
1347. ...s film, defects appear on the silicon layer, which degrades the carrier lifetime. Reducing the amount of damage done during this process is therefore important to increase the efficiency of the solar **cell**, and a focus of current research. In addition to research that seeks to optimize currently favoured technologies, there is a great deal of research surrounding other, less-utilized technologies, like...
1348. ...nt research. In addition to research that seeks to optimize currently favoured technologies, there is a great deal of research surrounding other, less-utilized technologies, like the Perovskite solar **cell** (PSC). This solar cell is preferable due to its comparatively cheap and simple manufacturing process. Modern advancements suggest that there is still ample room to improve on the carrier lifetime of...
1349. ...n to research that seeks to optimize currently favoured technologies, there is a great deal of research surrounding other, less-utilized technologies, like the Perovskite solar cell (PSC). This solar **cell** is preferable due to its comparatively cheap and simple manufacturing process. Modern advancements suggest that there is still ample room to improve on the carrier lifetime of this solar cell, with m...
1350. ...s solar cell is preferable due to its comparatively cheap and simple manufacturing process. Modern advancements suggest that there is still ample room to improve on the carrier lifetime of this solar **cell**, with most of the issues surrounding it being construction-related. In addition to solar cells, perovskites can be utilized to manufacture LEDs, lasers, and transistors. As a result of this, lead and...
1351. ...nsmission system into networked microgrids and cut the occurrence of blackouts to zero within two years, limiting damage even after two hurricanes. Denmark has performed tests of islanding a region ("**cell**") to maintain robustness with smaller local assets rather than large centralized ones. "Brittle Power" has 1,200 references. It has been summarised and referred to in several other publications: Magn...
1352. ...g proximities to the blast itself, leading to the establishment of three recorded stages of the syndrome. Within 25–30 days of the explosion, the Red Cross surgeon noticed a sharp drop in white blood **cell** count and established this drop, along with symptoms of fever, as prognostic standards for Acute Radiation Syndrome. Actress Midori Naka, who was present during the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, was t...
1353. ...ntally verified in an experiment performed in the Molenkamp labs at Universität Würzburg in Germany.  CDMA mobile test set A CDMA Mobile Test Set is a call simulating device that is used to test CDMA **cell** phones. It provides a network-like environment forming a platform to test the cell phone. This reduces cost of manufacturing and testing the cell phone in a real environment. It can be used to test a...
1354. ...zburg in Germany.  CDMA mobile test set A CDMA Mobile Test Set is a call simulating device that is used to test CDMA cell phones. It provides a network-like environment forming a platform to test the **cell** phone. This reduces cost of manufacturing and testing the cell phone in a real environment. It can be used to test all major 2G, 2.5G, 3G and 3.5G wireless technologies. In a lab, high-precision meas...
1355. ...is a call simulating device that is used to test CDMA cell phones. It provides a network-like environment forming a platform to test the cell phone. This reduces cost of manufacturing and testing the **cell** phone in a real environment. It can be used to test all major 2G, 2.5G, 3G and 3.5G wireless technologies. In a lab, high-precision measurement correction over the entire frequency and dynamic range...
1356. ...density of the particle; formula_11 the density of the medium; formula_12 is the acceleration due to gravity; and σ is the electrical conductivity of the bulk electrolyte solution. An improved design **cell** was developed to determine sedimentation potential, specific conductivity, volume fraction of the solids as well as pH. Two pairs of electrodes are used in this set up, one to measure potential diffe...
1357. ...m cations can hop. When this ceramic is complexed with a mobile ion, such as Na, it behaves as so-called fast ion conductor. BASE is used as a membrane in several types of molten salt electrochemical **cell**.  Ionic conduction in solids has been a subject of interest since the beginning of the 19th century. Michael Faraday established in 1839 that the laws of electrolysis are also obeyed in ionic solids...
1358. ...er (below 90 nanometres) and threshold levels lower. Accordingly, dynamic voltage scaling is widely used as part of strategies to manage switching power consumption in battery powered devices such as **cell** phones and laptop computers. Low voltage modes are used in conjunction with lowered clock frequencies to minimize power consumption associated with components such as CPUs and DSPs; only when signifi...
1359. ...e human body is geometrically and conductively uneven, with variation between individuals and phases of normal body activity, and bioimpedance results from many factors, including ion concentrations, **cell** geometry, extra-cellular fluids, intra-cellular fluids, and organ geometry. This makes accurate analysis of results from a small number of electrodes difficult and unreliable. Identifying zones with...
1360. ...ments are performed, like geology. Auxiliary electrode In electrochemistry, the auxiliary electrode, often also called the counter electrode, is an electrode used in a three-electrode electrochemical **cell** for voltammetric analysis or other reactions in which an electric current is expected to flow. The auxiliary electrode is distinct from the reference electrode, which establishes the electrical poten...
1361. ...w. The auxiliary electrode is distinct from the reference electrode, which establishes the electrical potential against which other potentials may be measured, and the working electrode, at which the **cell** reaction takes place. In a two-electrode system, either a known current or potential is applied between the working and auxiliary electrodes and the other variable may be measured. The auxiliary elec...
1362. ...at of the working electrode to ensure that the half-reaction occurring at the auxiliary electrode can occur fast enough so as not to limit the process at the working electrode. When a three-electrode **cell** is used to perform electroanalytical chemistry, the auxiliary electrode, along with the working electrode, provides a circuit over which current is either applied or measured. Here, the potential of...
1363. ...ower saving modes, which may or may not be offered by a particular device. Afterhyperpolarization Afterhyperpolarization, or AHP, is the hyperpolarizing phase of a neuron's action potential where the **cell**'s membrane potential falls below the normal resting potential. This is also commonly referred to as an action potential's undershoot phase. AHPs have been segregated into "fast", "medium", and "slow"...
1364. ...duce action potentials when their membrane potential increases past a critical threshold. In order for neurons to reach threshold for action potential to fire, enough sodium (Na+) ions must enter the **cell** through voltage gated sodium channels through membrane and depolarize the cell. The threshold is reached to overcome the electrochemical equilibrium within a neuron, where there is a balance between...
1365. ...threshold. In order for neurons to reach threshold for action potential to fire, enough sodium (Na+) ions must enter the cell through voltage gated sodium channels through membrane and depolarize the **cell**. The threshold is reached to overcome the electrochemical equilibrium within a neuron, where there is a balance between potassium ions (K+) moving down their concentration gradient (inside the cell t...
1366. ...e cell. The threshold is reached to overcome the electrochemical equilibrium within a neuron, where there is a balance between potassium ions (K+) moving down their concentration gradient (inside the **cell** to outside), and the electrical gradient that prevents K+ from moving down its own gradient. Once the threshold value is reached, an action potential is produced, causing a rapid increase of Na+ ente...
1367. ...side), and the electrical gradient that prevents K+ from moving down its own gradient. Once the threshold value is reached, an action potential is produced, causing a rapid increase of Na+ enters the **cell** with more Na+ channels along the membrane opening, resulting in a rapid depolarization of the cell. Once the cell has been depolarized, voltage-gated sodium channels close, causing potassium channels...
1368. ...eshold value is reached, an action potential is produced, causing a rapid increase of Na+ enters the cell with more Na+ channels along the membrane opening, resulting in a rapid depolarization of the **cell**. Once the cell has been depolarized, voltage-gated sodium channels close, causing potassium channels to open; K+ ions then proceed to move against their concentration gradient out of the cell. Howeve...
1369. ...reached, an action potential is produced, causing a rapid increase of Na+ enters the cell with more Na+ channels along the membrane opening, resulting in a rapid depolarization of the cell. Once the **cell** has been depolarized, voltage-gated sodium channels close, causing potassium channels to open; K+ ions then proceed to move against their concentration gradient out of the cell. However, if the volta...
1370. ...of the cell. Once the cell has been depolarized, voltage-gated sodium channels close, causing potassium channels to open; K+ ions then proceed to move against their concentration gradient out of the **cell**. However, if the voltage is below the threshold, the neuron does not fire, but the membrane potential still fluctuates due to postsynaptic potentials and intrinsic electrical properties of neurons. T...
1371. ...at a different membrane potential. For example, a study examined the frequencies of SMPO in different anatomical positions on the dorsoventral axis of a rat medial entorhinal cortex. They used whole-**cell** patch recording in vivo and biophysical modeling in compartmental simulations of entorhinal stellate cells to examine the properties (SMPO), at different membrane potentials of the entorhinal cortex...
1372. ...ate cells to examine the properties (SMPO), at different membrane potentials of the entorhinal cortex layer II stellate cells. This technique incorporates electrical stimulation of polar molecules in **cell** membrane. The study found that Dorsal cells are likely to show a positive slope of peak frequency with depolarization, whereas ventral cells tend to show a negative slope of peak frequency with depol...
1373. ...slope of peak frequency with depolarization. These findings illustrate that there are high frequencies of SMPO in dorsal cells and low frequencies in the ventral cells. A similar study that did whole-**cell** recordings of olivary neurons in vivo to investigate the relationship between subthreshold activities and spiking behavior in an intact brain illustrates that the majority of neurons displayed subthr...
1374. ...the magnetic moments because they themselves possess spin. The intensities of the Bragg reflections will therefore change. In fact in some cases entirely new Bragg-reflections will occur if the unit **cell** of the ordering is larger than that of the crystallographic structure. This is a form of superstructure formation. Thus the symmetry of the total structure may well differ from the crystallographic s...
1375. ...um is somewhat like a simple antiferromagnet, but also has an incommensurate spin density wave modulation on top of the simple up-down spin alternation. Manganese (in the α-Mn form) has 29 atoms unit **cell**, leading to a complex, but commensurate antiferromagnetic arrangement at low temperatures (magnetic space group P2'm'). Unlike most elements, which are magnetic due to electrons, the magnetic orderin...
1376. ...d by the drastic decrease of the oxygen-ion conductivity of 8YSZ (degradation of 8YSZ) of about 40% at 950 °C within 2500 hours. Traces of impurities like Ni, dissolved in the 8YSZ, e.g., due to fuel-**cell** fabrication, can have a severe impact on the decomposition rate (acceleration of inherent decomposition of the 8YSZ by orders of magnitude) such that the degradation of conductivity even becomes prob...
1377. ...al. The absolute potential of the SHE is 4.44 ± 0.02 V at 25 °C. Therefore, for any electrode at 25 °C: where: A different definition for the absolute electrode potential (also known as absolute half-**cell** potential and single electrode potential) has also been discussed in the literature. In this approach, one first defines an isothermal absolute single-electrode process (or absolute half-cell process...
1378. ...te half-cell potential and single electrode potential) has also been discussed in the literature. In this approach, one first defines an isothermal absolute single-electrode process (or absolute half-**cell** process.) For example, in the case of a generic metal being oxidized to form a solution-phase ion, the process would be For the hydrogen electrode, the absolute half-cell process would be Other types...
1379. ...de process (or absolute half-cell process.) For example, in the case of a generic metal being oxidized to form a solution-phase ion, the process would be For the hydrogen electrode, the absolute half-**cell** process would be Other types of absolute electrode reactions would be defined analogously. In this approach, all three species taking part in the reaction, including the electron, must be placed in t...
1380. ...Gibbs free energy by the negative of Faraday's constant. Rockwood's approach to absolute-electrode thermodynamics is easily expendable to other thermodynamic functions. For example, the absolute half-**cell** entropy has been defined as the entropy of the absolute half-cell process defined above. An alternative definition of the absolute half-cell entropy has recently been published by Fang et al. who def...
1381. ...s approach to absolute-electrode thermodynamics is easily expendable to other thermodynamic functions. For example, the absolute half-cell entropy has been defined as the entropy of the absolute half-**cell** process defined above. An alternative definition of the absolute half-cell entropy has recently been published by Fang et al. who define it as the entropy of the following reaction (using the hydroge...
1382. ...er thermodynamic functions. For example, the absolute half-cell entropy has been defined as the entropy of the absolute half-cell process defined above. An alternative definition of the absolute half-**cell** entropy has recently been published by Fang et al. who define it as the entropy of the following reaction (using the hydrogen electrode as an example): This approach differs from the approach describ...
1383. ...o which a material will exhibit the bulk photovoltaic effect. Shown at right is an example of a simple system that would exhibit the bulk photovoltaic effect. There are two electronic levels per unit **cell**, separated by a large energy gap, say 3 eV. The blue arrows indicate radiative transitions, i.e. an electron can absorb a UV photon to go from A to B, or it can emit a UV photon to go from B to A. Th...
1384. ...d expect from the drift-diffusion equation, i.e. electrons are moving towards higher fermi level or holes are moving towards lower fermi level. This is unusual: For example, in a normal silicon solar **cell**, electrons move in the direction of decreasing electron-quasi-fermi level, and holes move in the direction of increasing hole-quasi-fermi-level, consistent with the drift-diffusion equation. Power ge...
1385. ...ickness increases, the current goes down as much as the voltage goes up. In some cases, the current has a different sign depending on the light polarization. This would not occur in an ordinary solar **cell** like silicon. The bulk photovoltaic effect is believed to play a role in the photorefractive effect in lithium niobate. Equatorial electrojet The equatorial electrojet (EEJ) is a narrow ribbon of cur...
1386. ...solar-driven variability in the E-region conductivity.  Gyrokinetic ElectroMagnetic Gyrokinetic ElectroMagnetic (GEM) is a gyrokinetic plasma turbulence simulation that uses the formula_1 particle-in-**cell** method. It is used to study waves, instabilities and nonlinear behavior of tokamak fusion plasmas. Information about GEM can be found at the GEM web page. There are two versions of GEM, one is a flux...
1387. ...n about the magnetic field lines. This eliminates fast time scales associated with the gyromotion and reduces the dimensionality of the problem from six down to five. GEM uses the delta-f particle-in-**cell** (PIC) plasma simulation method. An expansion about an adiabatic response is made for electrons to overcome the limit of small time step, which is caused by the fast motion of electrons. GEM uses a no...
1388. ...hly variable parameters. The Geometry Factor is also independent of cavity size, it is constant as a cavity shape is scaled to change its frequency. As an example of the above parameters, a typical 9-**cell** SRF cavity for the International Linear Collider (a.k.a. a TESLA cavity) would have "G"=270 Ω and "R"= 10 nΩ, giving "Q"=2.7×10. The critical parameter for SRF cavities in the above equations is the...
1389. ...e membrane would be a perfect insulator and prevent this from happening. An especially familiar example of faradaic loss is the self-discharge that limits battery shelf-life. Faradaic efficiency of a **cell** design is usually measured through bulk electrolysis where a known quantity of reagent is stoichiometrically converted to product, as measured by the current passed. This result is then compared to t...
1390. ...lectrochemical reaction at the interface. The Galvani potential difference is not directly measurable using voltmeters. The measured potential difference between two metal electrodes assembled into a **cell** does not equal the difference of the Galvani potentials of the two metals (or their combination with the solution Galvani potential) because the cell needs to contain another metal-metal interface, a...
1391. ...nce between two metal electrodes assembled into a cell does not equal the difference of the Galvani potentials of the two metals (or their combination with the solution Galvani potential) because the **cell** needs to contain another metal-metal interface, as in the following schematic of a galvanic cell: where: Instead, the measured cell potential can be written as: where: From the above equation, two me...
1392. ...ni potentials of the two metals (or their combination with the solution Galvani potential) because the cell needs to contain another metal-metal interface, as in the following schematic of a galvanic **cell**: where: Instead, the measured cell potential can be written as: where: From the above equation, two metals in electronic contact (i.e., under electronic equilibrium) must have the same electrode pote...
1393. ...their combination with the solution Galvani potential) because the cell needs to contain another metal-metal interface, as in the following schematic of a galvanic cell: where: Instead, the measured **cell** potential can be written as: where: From the above equation, two metals in electronic contact (i.e., under electronic equilibrium) must have the same electrode potential. Also, the electrochemical po...
1394. ...technical variations to produce PTFE catalyst-mixtures: The dispersion route is chosen mainly for electrodes with polymer electrolytes, as successfully introduced in the proton exchange membrane fuel **cell** (PEM fuel cell) and in proton exchange membrane (PEM) or hydrochloric acid (HCL) membrane electrolysis. When used in liquid electrolyte, a dry process is more appropriate. Also, in the dispersion rou...
1395. ...tions to produce PTFE catalyst-mixtures: The dispersion route is chosen mainly for electrodes with polymer electrolytes, as successfully introduced in the proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEM fuel **cell**) and in proton exchange membrane (PEM) or hydrochloric acid (HCL) membrane electrolysis. When used in liquid electrolyte, a dry process is more appropriate. Also, in the dispersion route (through eva...
1396. ...fast drying methods, cracks can form in the electrodes which can be penetrated by the liquid electrolyte. For applications with liquid electrolytes, such as the zinc-air battery or the alkaline fuel **cell**, the dry mixture method is used. In acidic electrolytes the catalysts are usually precious metals like platinum, ruthenium, iridium and rhodium. In alkaline electrolytes, like zinc-air batteries and...
1397. ...ke zinc-air batteries and alkaline fuel cells, it is usual to use less expensive catalysts like carbon, manganese, silver, nickel foam or nickel mesh. At first solid electrodes were used in the Grove **cell**, Francis Thomas Bacon was the first to use gas diffusion electrodes for the Bacon fuel cell, converting hydrogen and oxygen at high temperature into electricity. Over the years, gas diffusion electro...
1398. ...ike carbon, manganese, silver, nickel foam or nickel mesh. At first solid electrodes were used in the Grove cell, Francis Thomas Bacon was the first to use gas diffusion electrodes for the Bacon fuel **cell**, converting hydrogen and oxygen at high temperature into electricity. Over the years, gas diffusion electrodes have been adapted for various other processes like: GDE is produced at all levels. It is...
1399. ...ed at all levels. It is not only used for research and development firms but for larger companies as well in the production of a membrane electrode assembly (MEA) that is in most cases used in a fuel **cell** or battery apparatus. Companies that specialize in high volume production of GDE include Johnson Matthey, Gore and Gaskatel. However, there are many companies which produce custom or low quantity GDE...
1400. ...with europium(II) fluoride (EuF) to create lattice vacancies. Such a crystal is an ionic conductor by virtue of the mobility of fluoride ions which jump between lattice vacancies. An electrochemical **cell** may be constructed using such a crystal as a membrane separating two fluoride solutions. This cell acts as a concentration cell with transference where the fluoride transport number is 1. As transfer...
1401. ...by virtue of the mobility of fluoride ions which jump between lattice vacancies. An electrochemical cell may be constructed using such a crystal as a membrane separating two fluoride solutions. This **cell** acts as a concentration cell with transference where the fluoride transport number is 1. As transference of charge through the crystal is almost exclusively due to fluoride, the electrode is highly s...
1402. ...fluoride ions which jump between lattice vacancies. An electrochemical cell may be constructed using such a crystal as a membrane separating two fluoride solutions. This cell acts as a concentration **cell** with transference where the fluoride transport number is 1. As transference of charge through the crystal is almost exclusively due to fluoride, the electrode is highly specific to fluoride. The only...
1403. ...he electrode is highly specific to fluoride. The only ion which significantly interferes is hydroxide (OH). Generally such "alkaline error" can be avoided by buffering the sample to a pH below 7. The **cell** diagram of a typical experimental arrangement is: where:  Some commercially available reference electrodes have an internal junction which minimizes the liquid junction potential between the sample s...
1404. ...ion and multiple usage as a result of their magnetic susceptibility. They are of interest as possible supports for solid phase synthesis. This technology is potentially relevant to cellular labelling/**cell** separation, detoxification of biological fluids, tissue repair, drug delivery, magnetic resonance imaging, hyperthermia and magnetofection. Random versus site-directed enzyme immobilization Enzymes i...
1405. ...e are many applications for iron-oxide based nanoparticles in concert with magnetic resonance imaging. Magnetic CoPt nanoparticles are being used as an MRI contrast agent for transplanted neural stem **cell** detection. In magnetic fluid hyperthermia, nanoparticles of different types like Iron oxide, magnetite, maghemite or even gold are injected in tumor and then subjected under a high frequency magnetic...
1406. ...chemical reaction mechanisms. The RRDE is an important tool for characterizing the fundamental properties of electrocatalysts used in fuel cells. For example, in a proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel **cell**, dioxygen reduction at the cathode is often enhanced by an electrocatalyst comprising platinum nanoparticles. When oxygen is reduced using an electrocatalyst, an unwanted and harmful by-product, hydr...
1407. ...oparticles. When oxygen is reduced using an electrocatalyst, an unwanted and harmful by-product, hydrogen peroxide, may be produced. Hydrogen peroxide can damage the internal components of a PEM fuel **cell**, so oxygen-reduction electrocatalysts are engineered in such a way as to limit the amount of peroxide formed. An RRDE "collection experiment" can be used to probe the peroxide generating tendencies o...
1408. ...is. Hanging up the phone opens a circuit, which is a Biblical prohibition of "destroying" according to the Chazon Ish but a Rabbinic prohibition according to others. Dialing on many phones, including **cell** phones, also causes the numbers to be written on a display screen, thus violating the prohibition of writing (as described above). If a phone call must be made on Shabbat, other factors being equal,...
1409. ...y have a higher initial cost, and are weather dependent. Solar lamps for use in rural situations often have the capability of providing a supply of electricity for other devices, such as for charging **cell** phones. The costs of solar lamps have continued to fall in recent years as the components and lamps have been mass-produced in ever greater numbers. Some solar photovoltaics use Monocrystalline silic...
1410. ...Monocrystalline silicon or poly-crystalline silicon panels, while newer technologies have used thin-film solar cells. Since modern solar cells were introduced in 1954 at Bell labs, advances in solar **cell** efficiency at converting light into electric power, and modern manufacturing techniques combined with efficiencies of scale have led to an international growth of photovoltaics. The first solar light...
1411. ...ED lamps has led to increased adoption as an alternative to older electric lightings Most solar panels are made out of single crystalline silicon, a semiconductor material. When light strikes a solar **cell**, an electric current is produced in the connected electric circuit. This is called the photoelectric effect. Photovoltaic systems directly convert the energy of sunlight into electricity. Solar panel...
1412. ...of uniform cross-section carrying a constant current is directly proportional to its length. The potentiometer is a simple device used to measure the electrical potentials (or compare the e.m.f of a **cell**). One form of potentiometer is a uniform high-resistance wire attached to an insulating support, marked with a linear measuring scale. In use, an adjustable regulated voltage source E, of greater mag...
1413. ...to a regulated DC supply V for use as a voltage divider. The potentiometer is first calibrated by positioning the wiper (arrow) at the spot on the R wire that corresponds to the voltage of a standard **cell** so that formula_1 A standard electrochemical cell is used whose emf is known (e.g. 1.0183 volts for a Weston standard cell). The supply voltage V is then adjusted until the galvanometer shows zero, i...
1414. ...vider. The potentiometer is first calibrated by positioning the wiper (arrow) at the spot on the R wire that corresponds to the voltage of a standard cell so that formula_1 A standard electrochemical **cell** is used whose emf is known (e.g. 1.0183 volts for a Weston standard cell). The supply voltage V is then adjusted until the galvanometer shows zero, indicating the voltage on R is equal to the standar...
1415. ...row) at the spot on the R wire that corresponds to the voltage of a standard cell so that formula_1 A standard electrochemical cell is used whose emf is known (e.g. 1.0183 volts for a Weston standard **cell**). The supply voltage V is then adjusted until the galvanometer shows zero, indicating the voltage on R is equal to the standard cell voltage. An unknown DC voltage, in series with the galvanometer, i...
1416. ...s used whose emf is known (e.g. 1.0183 volts for a Weston standard cell). The supply voltage V is then adjusted until the galvanometer shows zero, indicating the voltage on R is equal to the standard **cell** voltage. An unknown DC voltage, in series with the galvanometer, is then connected to the sliding wiper, across a variable-length section R of the resistance wire. The wiper is moved until no current...
1417. ...on and resistivity, and the position of the wiper can be measured easily, this method can be used to measure unknown DC voltages greater than or less than a calibration voltage produced by a standard **cell** without drawing any current from the standard cell. If the potentiometer is attached to a constant voltage DC supply such as a lead–acid battery, then a second variable resistor (not shown) can be us...
1418. ...an be measured easily, this method can be used to measure unknown DC voltages greater than or less than a calibration voltage produced by a standard cell without drawing any current from the standard **cell**. If the potentiometer is attached to a constant voltage DC supply such as a lead–acid battery, then a second variable resistor (not shown) can be used to calibrate the potentiometer by varying the cu...
1419. ...may be applied to correct the apparent measured EMF to the standard cold-junction temperature of 0 degrees C. To make a potentiometric determination of an analyte in a solution, the potential of the **cell** is measured. This measurement must be corrected for the reference and junction potentials. It can also be used in standardisation methods. The concentration of the analyte can then be calculated from...
1420. ...ems usually require discretization of the problem into a large number of cells/gridpoints (millions and more). Therefore the cost of the solution favors simpler, lower-order approximation within each **cell**. This is especially true for 'external flow' problems, like airflow around the car, airplane, or weather simulation. Another method used for approximating solutions to a partial differential equation...
1421. ...to the surface of the body. Whereas high-power lasers are used in laser medicine to cut or destroy tissue, it is claimed that application of low-power lasers relieves pain or stimulates and enhances **cell** function. The effects appear to be limited to a specified set of wavelengths and new research has demonstrated effectiveness at myopia control. Several such devices are cleared by the United States F...
1422. ...y have also been promoted for temporomandibular joint disorders, wound healing, smoking cessation, and tuberculosis. LLLT appears to be effective for preventing oral mucositis in recipients of a stem **cell** transplant with chemotherapy. In other areas, evidence for LLLT remains conflicted. Some studies suggest that LLLT may be modestly effective in relieving short-term pain for rheumatoid arthritis, ost...
1423. ...ater reductions in volume [of lymph nodes or surrounding tissues] were found with the use of LLLT than in treatments without it.” An ongoing area of research is the application of LLLT for increasing **cell** proliferation, including stem cells. Low level laser therapy has been studied as a potential treatment for chronic wounds, and higher-power lasers have sometimes been successfully used to close acute...
1424. ...appears off-screen at the end of season two's premiere "The Siege of Lothal" (originally voiced by Sam Witwer and later Ian McDiarmid from 2019). Darth Vader informs Palpatine that the Rebel Alliance **cell** on Lothal has been broken and that Ahsoka Tano is alive and is now helping the Rebels. Palpatine sees this as an opportunity to seek out other remaining Jedi, ordering Vader to dispatch an Inquisitor...
1425. ...ll capacitor with three electrodes, one for each primary color (some newer displays include an electrode for yellow). An electrical discharge across the electrodes causes the rare gases sealed in the **cell** to be converted to plasma form as it ionizes. Being electrically neutral, it contains equal quantities of electrons and ions and is, by definition, a good conductor. Once energized, the plasma cells...
1426. ...sure mixture of ammonia and argon for use in small, portable fuel cells. Lindner and Besser experimented with reforming model hydrocarbons such as methane, methanol, and butane into hydrogen for fuel **cell** feed. Their novel microplasma reactor was a microhollow cathode discharge with a microfluidic channel. Mass and energy balances on these experiments revealed conversions up to nearly 50%, but the con...
1427. ...oplasmas. They consist of chemically reactive species such as hydroxyl (OH) and atomic oxygen (O) that can kill harmful bacteria through oxidation. Oxidation of the lipids and proteins that compose a **cell**'s membrane can lead to the breakdown of the membrane and deactivate the bacteria. Microplasma can contact skin without harming it, making it ideal for disinfecting wounds. “Medical plasmas are said t...
1428. ...and plasma gun for cancer treatment, in which microplasma will be applied to both in vitro and in vivo experiments. This application will reveal the role of ROS (Reactive Oxygen Species), DNA damage, **cell** cycle modification, and apoptosis induction. Studies show that microplasma treatments are able to induce programmed death (apoptosis) among cancer cells—stopping the rapid reproduction of cancerous c...
1429. ...ma cancer (brain tumor), compared to the control group where microplasma was not applied. GREMI performed further in vitro studies regarding U87 gliomal cancer (brain tumors) and HCT116 (colon tumor) **cell** lines where microplasma was applied. This microplasma treatment was proven to be an efficient method in destroying cancer cells after being applied over periods of a few tens of seconds. Further stud...
1430. ...ards and tools to monitor the state of cells at subcellular resolutions is lacking funding and employment. This is a problem because advances in other fields of science are beginning to analyze large **cell** populations, increasing the need for a device that can monitor cells at such a level of sight. Cells cannot be used in many ways other than their main purpose, like detecting harmful substances. Merg...
1431. ...e of radiation in a short period, though this also has occurred with long-term exposure to low-level radiation. Many of the symptoms of radiation poisoning occur as ionizing radiation interferes with **cell** division. There are numerous lethal radiation syndromes, including prodromal syndrome, bone marrow death, central nervous system death and gastrointestinal death. The "prodromal syndrome" is not a di...
1432. ...erent times: In 24 hours: These will usually abate after 6–7 days. Within 3–4 weeks there is a period of extreme illness. The peak incidence of acute BM death corresponds to the 30-day nadir in blood **cell** numbers. The number of deaths then falls progressively until it reaches 0 at 60 days after irradiation. The amount of radiation greatly affects the probability of death. For example, over the range o...
1433. ...tion (FBS), is a form of electrotherapy used as a technique in research and clinical neurobiology to stimulate a neuron or neural network in the brain through the direct or indirect excitation of its **cell** membrane by using an electric current. EBS is used for research or for therapeutic purposes. Electrical brain stimulation was first used in the first half of the 19th century by pioneering researcher...
1434. ...cluding Kathy Rogers, was a driving force behind several electronics industry consortium's that were working to set industry standards to help propel the development of single chip devices, including **cell** phones. Hong Kong Science and Technology Parks Corporation (HKSTP), which was set up by Hong Kong government, joined VSIA as a member in 2006. HKSTP and Hong Kong University of Science and Technology...
1435. ...he load is constant, a steady current can be obtained via a constant voltage source. If the load is varying, a steady current can be obtained via a constant current supply source.  An electrochemical **cell** is a device capable of either generating electrical energy from chemical reactions or facilitating chemical reactions through the introduction of electrical energy. A common example of an electrochem...
1436. ...device capable of either generating electrical energy from chemical reactions or facilitating chemical reactions through the introduction of electrical energy. A common example of an electrochemical **cell** is a standard 1.5-volt cell meant for consumer use. This type of device is known as a single Galvanic cell, so an obsolete name for steady current was galvanic current. A "battery" consists of two or...
1437. ...nerating electrical energy from chemical reactions or facilitating chemical reactions through the introduction of electrical energy. A common example of an electrochemical cell is a standard 1.5-volt **cell** meant for consumer use. This type of device is known as a single Galvanic cell, so an obsolete name for steady current was galvanic current. A "battery" consists of two or more cells, connected in ei...
1438. ...ctions through the introduction of electrical energy. A common example of an electrochemical cell is a standard 1.5-volt cell meant for consumer use. This type of device is known as a single Galvanic **cell**, so an obsolete name for steady current was galvanic current. A "battery" consists of two or more cells, connected in either parallel or series pattern. A homopolar generator is an electrical generat...
1439. ..., and in household items such as smoke detectors. As signalling and metabolism in organisms are controlled by a precise ionic gradient across membranes, the disruption of this gradient contributes to **cell** death. This is a common mechanism exploited by natural and artificial biocides, including the ion channels gramicidin and amphotericin (a fungicide). Inorganic dissolved ions are a component of total...
1440. ...rnal circuit as electrical energy. Historically the term "battery" specifically referred to a device composed of multiple cells; however, the usage has evolved to include devices composed of a single **cell**. Primary (single-use or "disposable") batteries are used once and discarded, as the electrode materials are irreversibly changed during discharge; a common example is the alkaline battery used for fl...
1441. ...d in 1834. Although early batteries were of great value for experimental purposes, in practice their voltages fluctuated and they could not provide a large current for a sustained period. The Daniell **cell**, invented in 1836 by British chemist John Frederic Daniell, was the first practical source of electricity, becoming an industry standard and seeing widespread adoption as a power source for electrica...
1442. ...ir components, which made them fragile and potentially dangerous. These characteristics made wet cells unsuitable for portable appliances. Near the end of the nineteenth century, the invention of dry **cell** batteries, which replaced the liquid electrolyte with a paste, made portable electrical devices practical. Batteries in vacuum tube devices historically used a wet cell for the "A" battery (to provid...
1443. ...century, the invention of dry cell batteries, which replaced the liquid electrolyte with a paste, made portable electrical devices practical. Batteries in vacuum tube devices historically used a wet **cell** for the "A" battery (to provide power to the filament) and a dry cell for the "B" battery (to provide the plate voltage). Between 2010 and 2018, annual battery demand grew by 30%, reaching a total of...
1444. ...id electrolyte with a paste, made portable electrical devices practical. Batteries in vacuum tube devices historically used a wet cell for the "A" battery (to provide power to the filament) and a dry **cell** for the "B" battery (to provide the plate voltage). Between 2010 and 2018, annual battery demand grew by 30%, reaching a total of 180 GWh in 2018. Conservatively, the growth rate is expected to be ma...
1445. ...s are designed so that the energetically favorable redox reaction can occur only when electrons move through the external part of the circuit. A battery consists of some number of voltaic cells. Each **cell** consists of two half-cells connected in series by a conductive electrolyte containing metal "cations". One half-cell includes electrolyte and the negative electrode, the electrode to which anions (ne...
1446. ...rnal part of the circuit. A battery consists of some number of voltaic cells. Each cell consists of two half-cells connected in series by a conductive electrolyte containing metal "cations". One half-**cell** includes electrolyte and the negative electrode, the electrode to which anions (negatively charged ions) migrate; the other half-cell includes electrolyte and the positive electrode, to which cations...
1447. ...by a conductive electrolyte containing metal "cations". One half-cell includes electrolyte and the negative electrode, the electrode to which anions (negatively charged ions) migrate; the other half-**cell** includes electrolyte and the positive electrode, to which cations (positively charged ions) migrate. Cations are reduced (electrons are added) at the cathode, while metal atoms are oxidized (electron...
1448. ...arged ions) migrate. Cations are reduced (electrons are added) at the cathode, while metal atoms are oxidized (electrons are removed) at the anode. Some cells use different electrolytes for each half-**cell**; then a separator is used to prevent mixing of the electrolytes while allowing ions to flow between half-cells to complete the electrical circuit. Each half-cell has an electromotive force ("emf", me...
1449. ...different electrolytes for each half-cell; then a separator is used to prevent mixing of the electrolytes while allowing ions to flow between half-cells to complete the electrical circuit. Each half-**cell** has an electromotive force ("emf", measured in volts) relative to a standard. The net emf of the cell is the difference between the emfs of its half-cells. Thus, if the electrodes have emfs formula_1...
1450. ...ytes while allowing ions to flow between half-cells to complete the electrical circuit. Each half-cell has an electromotive force ("emf", measured in volts) relative to a standard. The net emf of the **cell** is the difference between the emfs of its half-cells. Thus, if the electrodes have emfs formula_1 and formula_2, then the net emf is formula_3; in other words, the net emf is the difference between t...
1451. ...hen the net emf is formula_3; in other words, the net emf is the difference between the reduction potentials of the half-reactions. The electrical driving force or formula_4 across the terminals of a **cell** is known as the "terminal voltage (difference)" and is measured in volts. The terminal voltage of a cell that is neither charging nor discharging is called the open-circuit voltage and equals the emf...
1452. ...als of the half-reactions. The electrical driving force or formula_4 across the terminals of a cell is known as the "terminal voltage (difference)" and is measured in volts. The terminal voltage of a **cell** that is neither charging nor discharging is called the open-circuit voltage and equals the emf of the cell. Because of internal resistance, the terminal voltage of a cell that is discharging is small...
1453. ...n as the "terminal voltage (difference)" and is measured in volts. The terminal voltage of a cell that is neither charging nor discharging is called the open-circuit voltage and equals the emf of the **cell**. Because of internal resistance, the terminal voltage of a cell that is discharging is smaller in magnitude than the open-circuit voltage and the terminal voltage of a cell that is charging exceeds t...
1454. ...s. The terminal voltage of a cell that is neither charging nor discharging is called the open-circuit voltage and equals the emf of the cell. Because of internal resistance, the terminal voltage of a **cell** that is discharging is smaller in magnitude than the open-circuit voltage and the terminal voltage of a cell that is charging exceeds the open-circuit voltage. An ideal cell has negligible internal r...
1455. ...and equals the emf of the cell. Because of internal resistance, the terminal voltage of a cell that is discharging is smaller in magnitude than the open-circuit voltage and the terminal voltage of a **cell** that is charging exceeds the open-circuit voltage. An ideal cell has negligible internal resistance, so it would maintain a constant terminal voltage of formula_5 until exhausted, then dropping to ze...
1456. ...the terminal voltage of a cell that is discharging is smaller in magnitude than the open-circuit voltage and the terminal voltage of a cell that is charging exceeds the open-circuit voltage. An ideal **cell** has negligible internal resistance, so it would maintain a constant terminal voltage of formula_5 until exhausted, then dropping to zero. If such a cell maintained 1.5 volts and produced a charge of...
1457. ...ing exceeds the open-circuit voltage. An ideal cell has negligible internal resistance, so it would maintain a constant terminal voltage of formula_5 until exhausted, then dropping to zero. If such a **cell** maintained 1.5 volts and produced a charge of one coulomb then on complete discharge it would have performed 1.5 joules of work. In actual cells, the internal resistance increases under discharge and...
1458. ...stance are plotted against time, the resulting graphs typically are a curve; the shape of the curve varies according to the chemistry and internal arrangement employed. The voltage developed across a **cell**'s terminals depends on the energy release of the chemical reactions of its electrodes and electrolyte. Alkaline and zinc–carbon cells have different chemistries, but approximately the same emf of 1.5...
1459. ...the reactions of lithium compounds give lithium cells emfs of 3 volts or more. Almost any liquid or moist object that has enough ions to be electrically conductive can serve as the electrolyte for a **cell**. As a novelty or science demonstration, it is possible to insert two electrodes made of different metals into a lemon, potato, etc. and generate small amounts of electricity. A voltaic pile can be ma...
1460. ...es. Many types of electrochemical cells have been produced, with varying chemical processes and designs, including galvanic cells, electrolytic cells, fuel cells, flow cells and voltaic piles. A "wet **cell**" battery has a liquid electrolyte. Other names are "flooded cell", since the liquid covers all internal parts or "vented cell", since gases produced during operation can escape to the air. Wet cells...
1461. ...varying chemical processes and designs, including galvanic cells, electrolytic cells, fuel cells, flow cells and voltaic piles. A "wet cell" battery has a liquid electrolyte. Other names are "flooded **cell**", since the liquid covers all internal parts or "vented cell", since gases produced during operation can escape to the air. Wet cells were a precursor to dry cells and are commonly used as a learning...
1462. ...lls, electrolytic cells, fuel cells, flow cells and voltaic piles. A "wet cell" battery has a liquid electrolyte. Other names are "flooded cell", since the liquid covers all internal parts or "vented **cell**", since gases produced during operation can escape to the air. Wet cells were a precursor to dry cells and are commonly used as a learning tool for electrochemistry. They can be built with common lab...
1463. ...mmonly used as a learning tool for electrochemistry. They can be built with common laboratory supplies, such as beakers, for demonstrations of how electrochemical cells work. A particular type of wet **cell** known as a concentration cell is important in understanding corrosion. Wet cells may be primary cells (non-rechargeable) or secondary cells (rechargeable). Originally, all practical primary batteries...
1464. ...for electrochemistry. They can be built with common laboratory supplies, such as beakers, for demonstrations of how electrochemical cells work. A particular type of wet cell known as a concentration **cell** is important in understanding corrosion. Wet cells may be primary cells (non-rechargeable) or secondary cells (rechargeable). Originally, all practical primary batteries such as the Daniell cell were...
1465. ...tion cell is important in understanding corrosion. Wet cells may be primary cells (non-rechargeable) or secondary cells (rechargeable). Originally, all practical primary batteries such as the Daniell **cell** were built as open-top glass jar wet cells. Other primary wet cells are the Leclanche cell, Grove cell, Bunsen cell, Chromic acid cell, Clark cell, and Weston cell. The Leclanche cell chemistry was a...
1466. ...argeable) or secondary cells (rechargeable). Originally, all practical primary batteries such as the Daniell cell were built as open-top glass jar wet cells. Other primary wet cells are the Leclanche **cell**, Grove cell, Bunsen cell, Chromic acid cell, Clark cell, and Weston cell. The Leclanche cell chemistry was adapted to the first dry cells. Wet cells are still used in automobile batteries and in indu...
1467. ...secondary cells (rechargeable). Originally, all practical primary batteries such as the Daniell cell were built as open-top glass jar wet cells. Other primary wet cells are the Leclanche cell, Grove **cell**, Bunsen cell, Chromic acid cell, Clark cell, and Weston cell. The Leclanche cell chemistry was adapted to the first dry cells. Wet cells are still used in automobile batteries and in industry for sta...
1468. ...lls (rechargeable). Originally, all practical primary batteries such as the Daniell cell were built as open-top glass jar wet cells. Other primary wet cells are the Leclanche cell, Grove cell, Bunsen **cell**, Chromic acid cell, Clark cell, and Weston cell. The Leclanche cell chemistry was adapted to the first dry cells. Wet cells are still used in automobile batteries and in industry for standby power fo...
1469. ...Originally, all practical primary batteries such as the Daniell cell were built as open-top glass jar wet cells. Other primary wet cells are the Leclanche cell, Grove cell, Bunsen cell, Chromic acid **cell**, Clark cell, and Weston cell. The Leclanche cell chemistry was adapted to the first dry cells. Wet cells are still used in automobile batteries and in industry for standby power for switchgear, telec...
1470. ...all practical primary batteries such as the Daniell cell were built as open-top glass jar wet cells. Other primary wet cells are the Leclanche cell, Grove cell, Bunsen cell, Chromic acid cell, Clark **cell**, and Weston cell. The Leclanche cell chemistry was adapted to the first dry cells. Wet cells are still used in automobile batteries and in industry for standby power for switchgear, telecommunication...
1471. ...imary batteries such as the Daniell cell were built as open-top glass jar wet cells. Other primary wet cells are the Leclanche cell, Grove cell, Bunsen cell, Chromic acid cell, Clark cell, and Weston **cell**. The Leclanche cell chemistry was adapted to the first dry cells. Wet cells are still used in automobile batteries and in industry for standby power for switchgear, telecommunication or large uninter...
1472. ...as the Daniell cell were built as open-top glass jar wet cells. Other primary wet cells are the Leclanche cell, Grove cell, Bunsen cell, Chromic acid cell, Clark cell, and Weston cell. The Leclanche **cell** chemistry was adapted to the first dry cells. Wet cells are still used in automobile batteries and in industry for standby power for switchgear, telecommunication or large uninterruptible power suppl...
1473. ...ckel–cadmium cells. Molten salt batteries are primary or secondary batteries that use a molten salt as electrolyte. They operate at high temperatures and must be well insulated to retain heat. A "dry **cell**" uses a paste electrolyte, with only enough moisture to allow current to flow. Unlike a wet cell, a dry cell can operate in any orientation without spilling, as it contains no free liquid, making it...
1474. ...lt as electrolyte. They operate at high temperatures and must be well insulated to retain heat. A "dry cell" uses a paste electrolyte, with only enough moisture to allow current to flow. Unlike a wet **cell**, a dry cell can operate in any orientation without spilling, as it contains no free liquid, making it suitable for portable equipment. By comparison, the first wet cells were typically fragile glass...
1475. ...olyte. They operate at high temperatures and must be well insulated to retain heat. A "dry cell" uses a paste electrolyte, with only enough moisture to allow current to flow. Unlike a wet cell, a dry **cell** can operate in any orientation without spilling, as it contains no free liquid, making it suitable for portable equipment. By comparison, the first wet cells were typically fragile glass containers w...
1476. ...re typically fragile glass containers with lead rods hanging from the open top and needed careful handling to avoid spillage. Lead–acid batteries did not achieve the safety and portability of the dry **cell** until the development of the gel battery. A common dry cell is the zinc–carbon battery, sometimes called the dry Leclanché cell, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline battery...
1477. ...from the open top and needed careful handling to avoid spillage. Lead–acid batteries did not achieve the safety and portability of the dry cell until the development of the gel battery. A common dry **cell** is the zinc–carbon battery, sometimes called the dry Leclanché cell, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline battery (since both use the same zinc–manganese dioxide combination)...
1478. ...ad–acid batteries did not achieve the safety and portability of the dry cell until the development of the gel battery. A common dry cell is the zinc–carbon battery, sometimes called the dry Leclanché **cell**, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline battery (since both use the same zinc–manganese dioxide combination). A standard dry cell comprises a zinc anode, usually in the form of...
1479. ...on battery, sometimes called the dry Leclanché cell, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline battery (since both use the same zinc–manganese dioxide combination). A standard dry **cell** comprises a zinc anode, usually in the form of a cylindrical pot, with a carbon cathode in the form of a central rod. The electrolyte is ammonium chloride in the form of a paste next to the zinc anod...
1480. ...city through the use of enzymes that break down carbohydrates. The sealed valve regulated lead–acid battery (VRLA battery) is popular in the automotive industry as a replacement for the lead–acid wet **cell**. The VRLA battery uses an immobilized sulfuric acid electrolyte, reducing the chance of leakage and extending shelf life. VRLA batteries immobilize the electrolyte. The two types are: Other portable...
1481. ...d electrolyte, reducing the chance of leakage and extending shelf life. VRLA batteries immobilize the electrolyte. The two types are: Other portable rechargeable batteries include several sealed "dry **cell**" types, that are useful in applications such as mobile phones and laptop computers. Cells of this type (in order of increasing power density and cost) include nickel–cadmium (NiCd), nickel–zinc (NiZn...
1482. ...er of increasing power density and cost) include nickel–cadmium (NiCd), nickel–zinc (NiZn), nickel–metal hydride (NiMH), and lithium-ion (Li-ion) cells. Li-ion has by far the highest share of the dry **cell** rechargeable market. NiMH has replaced NiCd in most applications due to its higher capacity, but NiCd remains in use in power tools, two-way radios, and medical equipment. In the 2000s, developments...
1483. ...solator which ensure that the batteries within are charged and discharged evenly. Primary batteries readily available to consumers range from tiny button cells used for electric watches, to the No. 6 **cell** used for signal circuits or other long duration applications. Secondary cells are made in very large sizes; very large batteries can power a submarine or stabilize an electrical grid and help level o...
1484. ...tes. Sodium–sulfur batteries have been used to store wind power. A 4.4 MWh battery system that can deliver 11 MW for 25 minutes stabilizes the output of the Auwahi wind farm in Hawaii. Many important **cell** properties, such as voltage, energy density, flammability, available cell constructions, operating temperature range and shelf life, are dictated by battery chemistry. A battery's characteristics may...
1485. ...battery system that can deliver 11 MW for 25 minutes stabilizes the output of the Auwahi wind farm in Hawaii. Many important cell properties, such as voltage, energy density, flammability, available **cell** constructions, operating temperature range and shelf life, are dictated by battery chemistry. A battery's characteristics may vary over load cycle, over charge cycle, and over lifetime due to many fa...
1486. ...battery warm. A battery's "capacity" is the amount of electric charge it can deliver at a voltage that does not drop below the specified terminal voltage. The more electrode material contained in the **cell** the greater its capacity. A small cell has less capacity than a larger cell with the same chemistry, although they develop the same open-circuit voltage. Capacity is usually stated in ampere-hours (A...
1487. ...the amount of electric charge it can deliver at a voltage that does not drop below the specified terminal voltage. The more electrode material contained in the cell the greater its capacity. A small **cell** has less capacity than a larger cell with the same chemistry, although they develop the same open-circuit voltage. Capacity is usually stated in ampere-hours (A·h) (mAh for small batteries). The rate...
1488. ...deliver at a voltage that does not drop below the specified terminal voltage. The more electrode material contained in the cell the greater its capacity. A small cell has less capacity than a larger **cell** with the same chemistry, although they develop the same open-circuit voltage. Capacity is usually stated in ampere-hours (A·h) (mAh for small batteries). The rated capacity of a battery is usually ex...
1489. ...a battery is usually expressed as the product of 20 hours multiplied by the current that a new battery can consistently supply for 20 hours at , while remaining above a specified terminal voltage per **cell**. For example, a battery rated at 100 A·h can deliver 5 A over a 20-hour period at room temperature. The fraction of the stored charge that a battery can deliver depends on multiple factors, including...
1490. ...ir original charge per year when stored at room temperature (20–30 °C). This is known as the "self-discharge" rate, and is due to non-current-producing "side" chemical reactions that occur within the **cell** even when no load is applied. The rate of side reactions is reduced for batteries stored at lower temperatures, although some can be damaged by freezing and storing in a fridge will not meaningfully...
1491. ...olently from the casing and cause injury. An expert summary of the problem indicates that this type uses "liquid electrolytes to transport lithium ions between the anode and the cathode. If a battery **cell** is charged too quickly, it can cause a short circuit, leading to explosions and fires". Car batteries are most likely to explode when a short circuit generates very large currents. Such batteries pro...
1492. ...rol her electrical powers. This results in the shorting out of any electronic device that she touches. This side effect has left her feeling alienated and freakish among her peers, who have access to **cell** phones, televisions, the internet, and other conveniences of the modern world. Jefferson initially forbids his daughters from following in his footsteps as a costumed hero until after they complete t...
1493. ...Park, "Anal. Chem." (2009) 1. Cultured cells : A.T. Ohta, "et al.", "IEEE J. Sel. Top. Quant. Elec." 13, pp. 237-240 (2007) 2. DNA : M. Hoeb, "et al.", "Biophys. J." 93, pp. 1032-1038 (2007) 3. Blood **cell** : H. Hwang, "et al.", "Electrophoresis" 29, pp. 1203-1212 (2008) 4. Semiconducting nanowires : A. Jamshidi, "et al.", "Nat. Photon." 2, pp. 86-89 (2008) 5. Swimming bacteria : W. Choi, "et al.", "App...
1494. ...ns resulting in a Galerkin type solution. By defining a suitable inner product, a weighted volume integral over the cells, the field equation can be interpreted as Kirchhoff's voltage law over a PEEC **cell** consisting of partial self inductances between the nodes and partial mutual inductances representing the magnetic field coupling in the equivalent circuit. The partial inductances are defined as for...
1495. ...ting of partial self inductances between the nodes and partial mutual inductances representing the magnetic field coupling in the equivalent circuit. The partial inductances are defined as for volume **cell** formula_9 and formula_10. Then, the coefficients of potentials are computed as and a resistive term between the nodes, defined as The rigorous full-wave version of the PEEC method is called (Lp,P,R,t...
1496. ...itude of the potential depends on the relative speeds of the ions' movement. The liquid junction potential cannot be measured directly but calculated. The electromotive force (EMF) of a concentration **cell** with transference includes the liquid junction potential. The EMF of a concentration cell without transport is: where formula_2 and formula_3 are activities of HCl in the two solutions, formula_4 is...
1497. ...nction potential cannot be measured directly but calculated. The electromotive force (EMF) of a concentration cell with transference includes the liquid junction potential. The EMF of a concentration **cell** without transport is: where formula_2 and formula_3 are activities of HCl in the two solutions, formula_4 is the universal gas constant, formula_5 is the temperature and formula_6 is the Faraday cons...
1498. ...ula_2 and formula_3 are activities of HCl in the two solutions, formula_4 is the universal gas constant, formula_5 is the temperature and formula_6 is the Faraday constant. The EMF of a concentration **cell** with transport (including the ion transport number) is: where formula_3 and formula_2 are activities of HCl solutions of right and left hand electrodes, respectively, and formula_10 is the transport...
1499. ...nce between the two EMFs of the two concentration cells, with and without ionic transport: The liquid junction potential interferes with the exact measurement of the electromotive force of a chemical **cell**, so its effect should be minimized as much as possible for accurate measurement. The most common method of eliminating the liquid junction potential is to place a salt bridge consisting of a saturate...
1500. ...t numbers in electrochemical cells, and in the early 20th century those numbers were determined for solid electrolytes. The voltaic pile stimulated a series of improved batteries, such as the Daniell **cell**, fuel cell and lead acid battery. Their operation was largely understood in the late 1800s from the theories by Wilhelm Ostwald and Walther Nernst. In 1894 Ostwald explained the energy conversion in...
1501. ...n electrochemical cells, and in the early 20th century those numbers were determined for solid electrolytes. The voltaic pile stimulated a series of improved batteries, such as the Daniell cell, fuel **cell** and lead acid battery. Their operation was largely understood in the late 1800s from the theories by Wilhelm Ostwald and Walther Nernst. In 1894 Ostwald explained the energy conversion in a fuel cell...
1502. ...cell and lead acid battery. Their operation was largely understood in the late 1800s from the theories by Wilhelm Ostwald and Walther Nernst. In 1894 Ostwald explained the energy conversion in a fuel **cell** and stressed that its efficiency was not limited by thermodynamics. Ostwald, together with Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff, and Svante Arrhenius, was a founding father of electrochemistry and chemical i...
1503. ...issues that did not experience a radiation traversal. These "bystander" cells are neighbors of cells that have experienced a traversal. The mechanism for the bystander effect is believed to be due to **cell**-to-cell communication. The exact nature of this communication is an area of active research for many groups. At the low doses of relevance to environmental radiation exposure, individual cells only r...
1504. ...hat did not experience a radiation traversal. These "bystander" cells are neighbors of cells that have experienced a traversal. The mechanism for the bystander effect is believed to be due to cell-to-**cell** communication. The exact nature of this communication is an area of active research for many groups. At the low doses of relevance to environmental radiation exposure, individual cells only rarely ex...
1505. ...annot practically be simulated in the laboratory using conventional broadbeam exposures. Microbeam techniques can overcome this limitation by delivering an exact number (one or more) of particles per **cell** nucleus. True single-particle irradiations should allow measurement of the effects of exactly one alpha particle traversal, relative to multiple traversals. The application of such systems to low fre...
1506. ...of a vacuum-tight window of a polymer a few micrometres thick or 100-500 nm thick Silicon nitride. Cells must be identified and targeted with a high degree of accuracy. This can be accomplished using **cell** staining and fluorescence microscopy or without staining through the use of techniques such as quantitative phase microscopy or phase contrast microscopy. Ultimately, the objective is to recognize ce...
1507. ...of up to 15,000 cells per hour have been achieved. Particles must be counted with a high degree of detection efficiency in order to guarantee that a specific number of ions are delivered to a single **cell**. Generally, detectors can be placed before or after the target to be irradiated. If the detector is placed after the target, the beam must have sufficient energy to traverse the target and reach the...
1508. ...have a minimal effect on the beam. When the desired number of particles are detected, the beam is either deflected or shut off. Living cells must be maintained under conditions that do not stress the **cell**, causing an unwanted biological response. Normally, cells must be attached to a substrate so that their position can be determined by the imaging system. Recent advancements in beam position control...

=== ISOLATOR (6 occurrences) ===
1. ...ion. Atomic vapours, however, can have Verdet constants which are orders of magnitude larger than TGG, but only over a very narrow wavelength range. Alkali vapours can therefore be used as an optical **isolator** or as an extremely sensitive magnetometer. The Faraday effect is chromatic (i.e. it depends on wavelength), and therefore the Verdet constant is quite a strong function of wavelength. At 632.8 nm, th...
2. ...l charge is the electric current integrated over time : Here is the "total" electrolysis time. Lightning arrester A lightning arrester (alternative spelling lightning arrestor) (also called lightning **isolator**) is a device, essentially an air gap between an electric wire and ground, used on electric power transmission and telecommunication systems to protect the insulation and conductors of the system from...
3. ...source and the detector. Older spectrometers used a vacuum tube called a klystron to generate microwaves, but modern spectrometers use a Gunn diode. Immediately after the microwave source there is an **isolator** which serves to attenuate any reflections back to the source which would result in fluctuations in the microwave frequency. The microwave power from the source is then passed through a directional co...
4. ...r. There is no 'earth wire' between the two. The fault loop impedance is higher, and unless the electrode impedance is very low indeed, a TT installation should always have an RCD (GFCI) as its first **isolator**. The big advantage of the TT earthing system is the reduced conducted interference from other users' connected equipment. TT has always been preferable for special applications like telecommunication...
5. ...nnel is used at the same time, all the input signals must have the same voltage reference, and the shared default reference is the "earth". If there is no differential preamplifier or external signal **isolator**, this traditional desktop oscilloscope is not suitable for floating measurements. (Occasionally an oscilloscope user breaks the ground pin in the power supply cord of a bench-top oscilloscope in an a...
6. ...does not uses standard-format batteries, they are typically combined into a custom battery pack which holds multiple batteries in addition to features such as a battery management system and battery **isolator** which ensure that the batteries within are charged and discharged evenly. Primary batteries readily available to consumers range from tiny button cells used for electric watches, to the No. 6 cell us...

=== TRANSMISSION LINE (183 occurrences) ===
1. ...process to produce insulators with a threaded pinhole: pin-type insulators still have threaded pinholes. The invention of suspension-type insulators made high-voltage power transmission possible. As **transmission line** voltages reached and passed 60,000 volts, the insulators required become very large and heavy, with insulators made for a safety margin of 88,000 volts being about the practical limit for manufacturi...
2. ...e had encountered Maxwell's newly published, and later famous, two-volume "Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism". In his old age Heaviside recalled: Undertaking research from home, he helped develop **transmission line** theory (also known as the ""telegrapher's equations""). Heaviside showed mathematically that uniformly distributed inductance in a telegraph line would diminish both attenuation and distortion, and t...
3. ...beth Heaviside. The gravestone was cleaned thanks to an anonymous donor sometime in 2005. He was always held in high regard by most electrical engineers, particularly after his correction to Kelvin's **transmission line** analysis was vindicated, but most of his wider recognition was gained posthumously. In July 2014, academics at Newcastle University, UK and the Newcastle Electromagnetics Interest Group founded the H...
4. ...al justification for Heaviside's operator method using contour integration. Heaviside was familiar with the Laplace transform method but considered his own method more direct. Heaviside developed the **transmission line** theory (also known as the "telegrapher's equations"), which had the effect of increasing the transmission rate over transatlantic cables by a factor of ten. It originally took ten minutes to transmit...
5. ...to reflect any radio frequency power back toward the source, and to provide very high isolation between receiver and transmitter terminals. The characteristic impedance of the relay is matched to the **transmission line** impedance of the system, for example, 50 ohms. A contactor is a heavy-duty relay with higher current ratings, used for switching electric motors and lighting loads. Continuous current ratings for com...
6. ...stability in distribution systems. SMES is also used in utility applications. In northern Wisconsin, a string of distributed SMES units were deployed to enhance stability of a transmission loop. The **transmission line** is subject to large, sudden load changes due to the operation of a paper mill, with the potential for uncontrolled fluctuations and voltage collapse. The Engineering Test Model is a large SMES with a...
7. ...ituations to reduce the power angle difference across the circuit breaker. Thereby allowing the reclosing of the circuit breaker. These systems allow the quick restoration of system power after major **transmission line** outages. Spinning reserve is the extra generating capacity that is available by increasing the power generation of systems that are connected to the grid. This capacity reserved by the system operato...
8. ...the power grid. Due to the fast recharge times and fast alternating current to direct current conversion process of SMES systems, these systems can be used as a spinning reserve when a major grid of **transmission line** is out of service. Superconducting fault current limiters (SFCL) are used to limit current under a fault in the grid. In this system a superconductor is quenched (raised in temperature) when a fault...
9. ...lamette Falls to the city of Portland down river. The first three-phase alternating current using high voltage took place in 1891 during the international electricity exhibition in Frankfurt. A 15 kV **transmission line**, approximately 175 km long, connected Lauffen on the Neckar and Frankfurt. Transmission voltages increased throughout the 20th century. By 1914, fifty-five transmission systems operating at more than...
10. ...age near the consumption point), a larger fraction of the generator's power is transmitted to the consumption point and a lesser fraction is lost to Joule heating. The terminal characteristics of the **transmission line** are the voltage and current at the sending (S) and receiving (R) ends. The transmission line can be modeled as a black box and a 2 by 2 transmission matrix is used to model its behavior, as follows:...
11. ...the consumption point and a lesser fraction is lost to Joule heating. The terminal characteristics of the transmission line are the voltage and current at the sending (S) and receiving (R) ends. The **transmission line** can be modeled as a black box and a 2 by 2 transmission matrix is used to model its behavior, as follows: The line is assumed to be a reciprocal, symmetrical network, meaning that the receiving and s...
12. ...stributed parameters, such that each differential length of the line has a corresponding differential series impedance and shunt admittance. The following result can be applied at any point along the **transmission line**, where formula_20 is the propagation constant. To find the voltage and current at the end of the long line, formula_22 should be replaced with formula_23 (the line length) in all parameters of the tr...
13. ...hronous grids. When electrical energy is transmitted over very long distances, the power lost in AC transmission becomes appreciable and it is less expensive to use direct current instead. For a long **transmission line**, these lower losses (and reduced construction cost of a DC line) can offset the cost of the required converter stations at each end. HVDC is used for long submarine cables where AC cannot be used bec...
14. ...onnection would: (and possibly in other cooperating cities along the transmission route). Such a system could be less prone to failure if parts of it were suddenly shut down. One example of a long DC **transmission line** is the Pacific DC Intertie located in the Western United States. The amount of power that can be sent over a transmission line varies with the length of the line. The heating of short line conductors...
15. ...failure if parts of it were suddenly shut down. One example of a long DC transmission line is the Pacific DC Intertie located in the Western United States. The amount of power that can be sent over a **transmission line** varies with the length of the line. The heating of short line conductors due to line losses sets a thermal limit. If too much current is drawn, conductors may sag too close to the ground, or conducto...
16. ...pacity lines. Adding transmission lines is difficult due to cost, permit intervals, and local opposition. Reconductoring has the potential to double the amount of electricity that can travel across a **transmission line**.  A 2024 report found the United States behind countries like Belgium and the Netherlands in adoption of this technique to accommodate electrification and renewable energy. In April 2022, the Biden A...
17. ...ays at each end of the line must communicate to monitor the flow of power so that faulted conductors or equipment can be quickly de-energized and the balance of the system restored. Protection of the **transmission line** from short circuits and other faults is usually so critical that common carrier telecommunications are insufficiently reliable, while in some remote areas no common carrier is available. Communicatio...
18. ...ble, while in some remote areas no common carrier is available. Communication systems associated with a transmission project may use: Rarely, and for short distances, pilot-wires are strung along the **transmission line** path. Leased circuits from common carriers are not preferred since availability is not under control of the operator. Transmission lines can be used to carry data: this is called power-line carrier,...
19. ...is called power-line carrier, or power-line communication (PLC). PLC signals can be easily received with a radio in the long wave range. Optical fibers can be included in the stranded conductors of a **transmission line**, in the overhead shield wires. These cables are known as optical ground wire ("OPGW"). Sometimes a standalone cable is used, all-dielectric self-supporting ("ADSS") cable, attached to the transmissio...
20. ...ission line, in the overhead shield wires. These cables are known as optical ground wire ("OPGW"). Sometimes a standalone cable is used, all-dielectric self-supporting ("ADSS") cable, attached to the **transmission line** cross arms. Some jurisdictions, such as Minnesota, prohibit energy transmission companies from selling surplus communication bandwidth or acting as a telecommunications common carrier. Where the regu...
21. ...regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Merchant transmission projects in the United States include the Cross Sound Cable from Shoreham, New York to New Haven, Connecticut, Neptune RTS **Transmission Line** from Sayreville, New Jersey, to New Bridge, New York, and Path 15 in California. Additional projects are in development or have been proposed throughout the United States, including the Lake Erie Con...
22. ...Jersey, to New Bridge, New York, and Path 15 in California. Additional projects are in development or have been proposed throughout the United States, including the Lake Erie Connector, an underwater **transmission line** proposed by ITC Holdings Corp., connecting Ontario to load serving entities in the PJM Interconnection region. Australia has one unregulated or market interconnector – Basslink – between Tasmania and...
23. ...A major barrier to wider adoption of merchant transmission is the difficulty in identifying who benefits from the facility so that the beneficiaries pay the toll. Also, it is difficult for a merchant **transmission line** to compete when the alternative transmission lines are subsidized by utilities with a monopolized and regulated rate base. In the United States, the FERC's Order 1000, issued in 2010, attempted to re...
24. ...tudies failed to find any link between living near power lines and developing any sickness or diseases, such as cancer. A 1997 study reported no increased risk of cancer or illness from living near a **transmission line**. Other studies, however, reported statistical correlations between various diseases and living or working near power lines. No adverse health effects have been substantiated for people not living clo...
25. ...Public Service Commission conducted a study to evaluate potential health effects of electric fields. The study measured the electric field strength at the edge of an existing right-of-way on a 765 kV **transmission line**. The field strength was 1.6 kV/m, and became the interim maximum strength standard for new transmission lines in New York State. The opinion also limited the voltage of new transmission lines built i...
26. ...e of the right-of-way using the winter-normal conductor rating. As a comparison with everyday items, a hair dryer or electric blanket produces a 100 mG – 500 mG magnetic field. Applications for a new **transmission line** typically include an analysis of electric and magnetic field levels at the edge of rights-of-way. Public utility commissions typically do not comment on health impacts. Biological effects have been e...
27. ...– 70 μT or 350 mG – 700 mG) while the international standard for continuous exposure is set at 40 mT (400,000 mG or 400 G) for the general public. Tree growth regulators and herbicides may be used in **transmission line** right of ways, which may have health effects. In some countries where electric locomotives or electric multiple units run on low frequency AC power, separate single phase traction power networks are...
28. ...igh load density areas such as the business district of large cities, where purchase of an easement for cables is costly. Single-wire earth return (SWER) or single-wire ground return is a single-wire **transmission line** for supplying single-phase electrical power to remote areas at low cost. It is principally used for rural electrification, but also finds use for larger isolated loads such as water pumps. Single-wir...
29. ...il form. The bottom of the driver's secondary winding is connected to ground. The opposite end is connected to the bottom of the extra coil through an insulated conductor that is sometimes called the **transmission line**. Since the transmission line operates at relatively high RF voltages, it is typically made of 1" diameter metal tubing to reduce corona losses. Since the third coil is located some distance away from...
30. ...iver's secondary winding is connected to ground. The opposite end is connected to the bottom of the extra coil through an insulated conductor that is sometimes called the transmission line. Since the **transmission line** operates at relatively high RF voltages, it is typically made of 1" diameter metal tubing to reduce corona losses. Since the third coil is located some distance away from the driver, it is not magnet...
31. ...on of the output of one device to the input of a similar or related device. In telecommunications, a back-to-back connection can be formed by connecting a transmitter directly to a receiver without a **transmission line** in between. This is used for equipment measurements and testing purposes. The back-to-back connection eliminates the effects of the transmission medium. In some cases, the output of a receiving devic...
32. ...ltage direct-current (HVDC) system with both ends in the same switchyard. This is used to couple asynchronously operated power grids or for connecting power grids of different frequencies where no DC **transmission line** is necessary. In electronics, a back-to-back connection is the connection of two identical or similar components in series with the opposite polarity. This is used to convert polarised components to...
33. ...amplifier's output capacitively couples to its input it may become an electronic oscillator. Characteristic impedance The characteristic impedance or surge impedance (usually written Z) of a uniform **transmission line** is the ratio of the amplitudes of voltage and current of a wave travelling in one direction along the line in the absence of reflections in the other direction. Equivalently, it can be defined as the...
34. ...mplitudes of voltage and current of a wave travelling in one direction along the line in the absence of reflections in the other direction. Equivalently, it can be defined as the input impedance of a **transmission line** when its length is infinite. Characteristic impedance is determined by the geometry and materials of the transmission line and, for a uniform line, is not dependent on its length. The SI unit of char...
35. ...other direction. Equivalently, it can be defined as the input impedance of a transmission line when its length is infinite. Characteristic impedance is determined by the geometry and materials of the **transmission line** and, for a uniform line, is not dependent on its length. The SI unit of characteristic impedance is the ohm. The characteristic impedance of a lossless transmission line is purely real, with no react...
36. ...geometry and materials of the transmission line and, for a uniform line, is not dependent on its length. The SI unit of characteristic impedance is the ohm. The characteristic impedance of a lossless **transmission line** is purely real, with no reactive component. Energy supplied by a source at one end of such a line is transmitted through the line without being dissipated in the line itself. A transmission line of f...
37. ...less transmission line is purely real, with no reactive component. Energy supplied by a source at one end of such a line is transmitted through the line without being dissipated in the line itself. A **transmission line** of finite length (lossless or lossy) that is terminated at one end with an impedance equal to the characteristic impedance appears to the source like an infinitely long transmission line and produces...
38. ...ne itself. A transmission line of finite length (lossless or lossy) that is terminated at one end with an impedance equal to the characteristic impedance appears to the source like an infinitely long **transmission line** and produces no reflections. The characteristic impedance formula_1 of an infinite transmission line at a given angular frequency formula_2 is the ratio of the voltage and current of a pure sinusoida...
39. ...h an impedance equal to the characteristic impedance appears to the source like an infinitely long transmission line and produces no reflections. The characteristic impedance formula_1 of an infinite **transmission line** at a given angular frequency formula_2 is the ratio of the voltage and current of a pure sinusoidal wave of the same frequency travelling along the line. This relation is also the case for finite tra...
40. ...n arbitrary length of line at its output, produces an input impedance of equal value". This is so because there is no reflection on a line terminated in its own characteristic impedance. Applying the **transmission line** model based on the telegrapher's equations as derived below, the general expression for the characteristic impedance of a transmission line is: formula_3 where This expression extends to DC by lettin...
41. ...erminated in its own characteristic impedance. Applying the transmission line model based on the telegrapher's equations as derived below, the general expression for the characteristic impedance of a **transmission line** is: formula_3 where This expression extends to DC by letting formula_2 tend to 0. A surge of energy on a finite transmission line will see an impedance of formula_5 prior to any reflections returning...
42. ...d below, the general expression for the characteristic impedance of a transmission line is: formula_3 where This expression extends to DC by letting formula_2 tend to 0. A surge of energy on a finite **transmission line** will see an impedance of formula_5 prior to any reflections returning; hence "surge impedance" is an alternative name for "characteristic impedance". Although an infinite line is assumed, since all q...
43. ...". Although an infinite line is assumed, since all quantities are per unit length, the “per length” parts of all the units cancel, and the characteristic impedance is independent of the length of the **transmission line**. The voltage and current phasors on the line are related by the characteristic impedance as: formula_6 where the subscripts (+) and (−) mark the separate constants for the waves traveling forward (+)...
44. ...epresented by a single constant formula_24 (The minus sign is included for later convenience.) That is: formula_25 so formula_26 We can write the above equation as formula_27 which is correct for any **transmission line** in general. And for typical transmission lines, that are carefully built from wire with low loss resistance formula_28 and small insulation leakage conductance formula_29 further, used for high frequ...
45. ...equations has the dimensions of impedance (ratio of voltage to current) and is a function of primary constants of the line and operating frequency. It is called the “characteristic impedance” of the **transmission line**, and conventionally denoted by formula_62 formula_63 which holds generally, for any transmission line. For well-functioning transmission lines, with either formula_28 and formula_65 both very small,...
46. ...constants of the line and operating frequency. It is called the “characteristic impedance” of the transmission line, and conventionally denoted by formula_62 formula_63 which holds generally, for any **transmission line**. For well-functioning transmission lines, with either formula_28 and formula_65 both very small, or with formula_66 very high, or all of the above, we get formula_67 hence the characteristic impedanc...
47. ...series impedance formula_68 and two parallel impedances formula_75 and formula_76 Its input impedance is given by the expression which is also known as its iterative impedance. Its solution is: For a **transmission line**, it can be seen as a limiting case of an infinite ladder network with infinitesimal impedance and admittance at a constant ratio. Taking the positive root, this equation simplifies to: Using this ins...
48. ...he analysis of lossless lines provides an accurate approximation for real transmission lines that simplifies the mathematics considered in modeling transmission lines. A lossless line is defined as a **transmission line** that has no line resistance and no dielectric loss. This would imply that the conductors act like perfect conductors and the dielectric acts like a perfect dielectric. For a lossless line, and are bo...
49. ...d current: formula_105 When the line is terminated with its characteristic impedance, the reflected portions of these equations are reduced to 0 and the solutions to the voltage and current along the **transmission line** are wholly incident. Without a reflection of the wave, the load that is being supplied by the line effectively blends into the line making it appear to be an infinite line. In a lossless line this im...
50. ...being supplied by the line effectively blends into the line making it appear to be an infinite line. In a lossless line this implies that the voltage and current remain the same everywhere along the **transmission line**. Their magnitudes remain constant along the length of the line and are only rotated by a phase angle. In electric power transmission, the characteristic impedance of a transmission line is expressed...
51. ...ere along the transmission line. Their magnitudes remain constant along the length of the line and are only rotated by a phase angle. In electric power transmission, the characteristic impedance of a **transmission line** is expressed in terms of the surge impedance loading (SIL), or natural loading, being the power loading at which reactive power is neither produced nor absorbed: formula_106 in which formula_107 is t...
52. ...e load will be greater than the system voltage. Above it, the load voltage is depressed. The Ferranti effect describes the voltage gain towards the remote end of a very lightly loaded (or open ended) **transmission line**. Underground cables normally have a very low characteristic impedance, resulting in an SIL that is typically in excess of the thermal limit of the cable. The characteristic impedance of coaxial cable...
53. ...ive to the input impedance of the amplifier) in order to account for the added noise observed following amplification. An RF receiver system is typically made up of an antenna and a receiver, and the **transmission line**(s) that connect the two together. Each of these is a source of additive noise. The additive noise in a receiving system can be of thermal origin (thermal noise) or can be from other external or inter...
54. ...r and transmission lines and that of the antenna. The antenna noise temperature formula_14 gives the noise power seen at the output of the antenna. The composite noise temperature of the receiver and **transmission line** losses formula_15 represents the noise contribution of the rest of the receiver system. It is calculated as the effective noise that would be present at the antenna input terminals if the receiver sy...
55. ...nits for this purpose or as the only source of information about a physical quantity as used. The power factor is defined as the ratio of real power to apparent power. As power is transferred along a **transmission line**, it does not consist purely of real power that can do work once transferred to the load, but rather consists of a combination of real and reactive power, called apparent power. The power factor descr...
56. ...n do work once transferred to the load, but rather consists of a combination of real and reactive power, called apparent power. The power factor describes the amount of real power transmitted along a **transmission line** relative to the total apparent power flowing in the line. The power factor can also be computed as the cosine of the angle θ by which the current waveform lags or leads the voltage waveform. One can...
57. ...fficient and transmission constant. If the plural is used, it suggests that "α" and "β" are being referenced separately but collectively as in transmission parameters, propagation parameters, etc. In **transmission line** theory, "α" and "β" are counted among the "secondary coefficients", the term "secondary" being used to contrast to the "primary line coefficients". The primary coefficients are the physical propertie...
58. ...t is represented by the symbol "β" and is measured in units of radians per unit length. From the definition of (angular) wavenumber for transverse electromagnetic (TEM) waves in lossless media, For a **transmission line**, the telegrapher's equations tells us that the wavenumber must be proportional to frequency for the transmission of the wave to be undistorted in the time domain. This includes, but is not limited to...
59. ...e resistance. The magnitude of the step produced by the resistive load may be expressed as a fraction of the input signal as given by: formula_1 where formula_2 is the characteristic impedance of the **transmission line**. Generally, the reflections will have the same shape as the incident signal, but their sign and magnitude depend on the change in impedance level. If there is a step increase in the impedance, then t...
60. ...ction coefficient is calculated as follows: formula_3 where "Z" is defined as the characteristic impedance of the transmission medium and "Z" is the impedance of the termination at the far end of the **transmission line**. Any discontinuity can be viewed as a termination impedance and substituted as "Z". This includes abrupt changes in the characteristic impedance. As an example, a trace width on a printed circuit boa...
61. ...). Recent reviews and reference work on the subject include, Topp and Reynolds (1998), Noborio (2001), Pettinellia et al. (2002), Topp and Ferre (2002) and Robinson et al. (2003). The TDR method is a **transmission line** technique, and determines apparent permittivity (Ka) from the travel time of an electromagnetic wave that propagates along a transmission line, usually two or more parallel metal rods embedded in soi...
62. ...e (2002) and Robinson et al. (2003). The TDR method is a transmission line technique, and determines apparent permittivity (Ka) from the travel time of an electromagnetic wave that propagates along a **transmission line**, usually two or more parallel metal rods embedded in soil or sediment. The probes are typically between 10 and 30 cm long and connected to the TDR via coaxial cable. Time domain reflectometry has als...
63. ...d the outer shield sharing a geometric axis. Coaxial cable was invented by English physicist, engineer, and mathematician Oliver Heaviside, who patented the design in 1880. Coaxial cable is a type of **transmission line**, used to carry high frequency electrical signals with low losses. It is used in such applications as telephone trunk lines, broadband internet networking cables, high-speed computer data busses, carr...
64. ...differs from other shielded cables because the dimensions of the cable and connectors are controlled to give a precise, constant conductor spacing, which is needed for it to function efficiently as a **transmission line**. "Optical fiber", which has emerged as the most commonly used transmission medium for long-distance communications, is a thin strand of glass that guides light along its length. Four major factors fa...
65. ...In circuit theory, the impedance is a generalization of electrical resistance in the case of alternating current, and is measured in ohms (formula_17). A waveguide in circuit theory is described by a **transmission line** having a length and characteristic impedance. In other words, the impedance indicates the ratio of voltage to current of the circuit component (in this case a waveguide) during propagation of the wav...
66. ...prism case, some light leaks out at the prism corners). An "acoustic waveguide" is a physical structure for guiding sound waves. Sound in an acoustic waveguide behaves like electromagnetic waves on a **transmission line**. Waves on a string, like the ones in a tin can telephone, are a simple example of an acoustic waveguide. Another example are pressure waves in the pipes of an organ. The term "acoustic waveguide" is...
67. ...neous dielectric medium, similar expressions apply, but with the wave impedance of the medium replacing "Z". The presence of the dielectric also modifies the cut-off frequency "f". For a waveguide or **transmission line** containing more than one type of dielectric medium (such as microstrip), the wave impedance will in general vary over the cross-section of the line. Signal generator A signal generator is one of a cl...
68. .... The Jaruga Hydroelectric Power Plant in Croatia was set in operation two days later, on 28 August 1895. Its generator (42 Hz, 240 kW) was made and installed by the Hungarian company Ganz, while the **transmission line** from the power plant to the City of Šibenik was long, and the municipal distribution grid 3000 V/110 V included six transforming stations. Alternating current circuit theory developed rapidly in the...
69. ...t as one would have computed for the power delivered using basic laws of electricity. Other similar examples in which the "P" = "V" · "I" result can be analytically calculated are: the parallel-plate **transmission line**, using Cartesian coordinates, and the two-wire transmission line, using bipolar cylindrical coordinates. In the "microscopic" version of Maxwell's equations, this definition must be replaced by a def...
70. ...laws of electricity. Other similar examples in which the "P" = "V" · "I" result can be analytically calculated are: the parallel-plate transmission line, using Cartesian coordinates, and the two-wire **transmission line**, using bipolar cylindrical coordinates. In the "microscopic" version of Maxwell's equations, this definition must be replaced by a definition in terms of the electric field E and the magnetic flux de...
71. ...depends on size and type of component package. One of the most widely used CDM simulation test models is defined by the JEDEC. Other standardized ESD test circuits include the machine model (MM) and **transmission line** pulse (TLP). Electric chair The electric chair is a specialized device used for capital punishment through electrocution. The condemned is strapped to a custom wooden chair and electrocuted via elect...
72. ...uency transmission lines, and other electronics, there is often a requirement to match the source impedance (at the transmitter) to the load impedance (such as an antenna) to avoid reflections in the **transmission line**. In the simplified model of powering a load with resistance by a source with voltage and source resistance , then by Ohm's law the resulting current is simply the source voltage divided by the total...
73. ...bre and coaxial cable. As UTP cable bandwidth has improved to match the baseband of television signals, UTP is now used in some video applications, primarily in security cameras. As UTP is a balanced **transmission line**, a balun is needed to connect to unbalanced equipment, for example any using BNC connectors and designed for coaxial cable. Twisted pair cables may incorporate shielding in an attempt to prevent elec...
74. ...lag the voltage by a quarter cycle, or 90°. In electric power systems, inductive reactance (and capacitive reactance, however inductive reactance is more common) can limit the power capacity of an AC **transmission line**, because power is not completely transferred when voltage and current are out-of-phase (detailed above). That is, current will flow for an out-of-phase system, however real power at certain times wil...
75. ...ines to heat up due to current flow. Consequently, transmission lines can only heat up so much (or else they would physically sag too much, due to the heat expanding the metal transmission lines), so **transmission line** operators have a "ceiling" on the amount of current that can flow through a given line, and excessive inductive reactance can limit the power capacity of a line. Power providers utilize capacitors to...
76. ...a single host. Since each device generated the asynchronous handshaking signals required by the bus protocol, slow and fast devices could be mixed on one bus. The data transfer is relatively slow, so **transmission line** issues such as impedance matching and line termination are ignored. There was no requirement for galvanic isolation between the bus and devices, which created the possibility of ground loops causing...
77. ...se shift is proportional to the angular velocity. In telecommunication networks, heterodyning is used to move frequencies of individual signals to different channels which may share a single physical **transmission line**. This is called frequency division multiplexing (FDM). For example, a coaxial cable used by a cable television system can carry 500 television channels at the same time because each one is given a di...
78. ...rtition law of Boltzmann and Maxwell to explain Johnson's experimental result. Nyquist's thought experiment summed the energy contribution of each standing wave mode of oscillation on a long lossless **transmission line** between two equal resistors (formula_13). According to the conclusion of Figure 5, the total average power transferred over bandwidth formula_3 from formula_15 and absorbed by formula_16 was determin...
79. ...agnetic radiation of a blackbody in one dimension—i.e., it is the one-dimensional version of Planck's law of blackbody radiation. In other words, a hot resistor will create electromagnetic waves on a **transmission line** just as a hot object will create electromagnetic waves in free space. In 1946, Robert H. Dicke elaborated on the relationship, and further connected it to properties of antennas, particularly the fac...
80. ...hin those 1.64 s. Oscillations in the light intensity and in the oxygen and nitrogen emission at a frequency of 100 hertz, possibly caused by the electromagnetic field of the 50 Hz high-voltage power **transmission line** in the vicinity, were observed. From the spectrum, the temperature of the ball lightning was assessed as being lower than the temperature of the parent lightning (<15,000 to 30,000 K). The observed d...
81. ...e lower frequencies, with the electrostatic diaphragm handling middle and high frequencies. Many feel that the best low frequency unit for hybrids are cone drivers mounted on open baffles as dipoles, **transmission line** woofers or horns, since they possess roughly the same qualities (at least in the bass) as electrostatic speakers, i.e. good transient response, little box coloration, and (ideally) flat frequency res...
82. ...rns over 40% of his body and was completely paralyzed except for his eyelids. The shock with the highest voltage reported survived was that of Harry F. McGrew, who came in contact with a 340,000 volt **transmission line** in Huntington Canyon, Utah. The severity and lethality of electric shocks generally depend on the duration and the amount of current passing through the human body. Frequency plays a role with AC and...
83. ...he negative resistance region (formula_47 in graphs above) formula_48 The reason that the output signal can leave a negative resistance through the same port that the input signal enters is that from **transmission line** theory, the AC voltage or current at the terminals of a component can be divided into two oppositely moving waves, the "incident wave" formula_49, which travels toward the device, and the "reflected...
84. ...citances and inductances are "non-Foster" circuits which violate Foster's reactance theorem. One application being researched is to create an active matching network which could match an antenna to a **transmission line** over a broad range of frequencies, rather than just a single frequency as with current networks. This would allow the creation of small compact antennas that would have broad bandwidth, exceeding the...
85. ..., conductance and susceptance, are represented by and , respectively. Transmission lines can span hundreds of kilometers, over which the line's capacitance can affect voltage levels. For short length **transmission line** analysis, which applies to lines shorter than , this capacitance can be ignored and shunt components are not necessary in the model. Lines from , generally considered to be in the medium-line categor...
86. ...eports that "Sending them [surges] down the drain of a grounding conductor only makes them reappear within a microsecond about 200 meters away on some other conductor." So having protection on a data **transmission line** is only required if surges are diverted to the ground line. SM devices tend to be bulkier and heavier than devices using other surge suppression technologies. The initial costs of SM filters are high...
87. ...and James W. McRae, who were familiar with conformal mappings, was reworked into the final form in early 1937, which was eventually published in January 1939. While Smith had originally called it a ""**transmission line** chart"" and other authors first used names like ""reflection chart"", ""circle diagram of impedance"", ""immittance chart"" or ""Z-plane chart"", early adopters at MIT's Radiation Laboratory started...
88. ...ale around its circumference or periphery which is graduated in wavelengths and degrees. The wavelengths scale is used in distributed component problems and represents the distance measured along the **transmission line** connected between the generator or source and the load to the point under consideration. The degrees scale represents the angle of the voltage reflection coefficient at that point. The Smith chart ma...
89. ...esent: The accuracy of the Smith chart is reduced for problems involving a large locus of impedances or admittances, although the scaling can be magnified for individual areas to accommodate these. A **transmission line** with a characteristic impedance of formula_7 may be universally considered to have a characteristic admittance of formula_8 where Any impedance, formula_10 expressed in ohms, may be normalised by div...
90. ...impedances and admittances must be normalised before using them on a Smith chart. Once the result is obtained it may be de-normalised to obtain the actual result. Using transmission-line theory, if a **transmission line** is terminated in an impedance (formula_10) which differs from its characteristic impedance (formula_7), a standing wave will be formed on the line comprising the resultant of both the incident or for...
91. ...at the load. The complex voltage reflection coefficient formula_38 is defined as the ratio of the reflected wave to the incident (or forward) wave. Therefore, where is also a constant. For a uniform **transmission line** (in which formula_40 is constant), the complex reflection coefficient of a standing wave varies according to the position on the line. If the line is lossy (formula_29 is non-zero) this is represente...
92. ..._27 is the line length from the load to the location where the reflection coefficient is measured. The phase constant formula_30 may also be written as  where formula_48 is the wavelength "within the **transmission line**" at the test frequency. Therefore, This equation shows that, for a standing wave, the complex reflection coefficient and impedance repeats every half wavelength along the transmission line. The compl...
93. ...within the transmission line" at the test frequency. Therefore, This equation shows that, for a standing wave, the complex reflection coefficient and impedance repeats every half wavelength along the **transmission line**. The complex reflection coefficient is generally simply referred to as reflection coefficient. The outer circumferential scale of the Smith chart represents the distance from the generator to the loa...
94. ...e generator to the load scaled in wavelengths and is therefore scaled from zero to 0.50. If formula_50 and formula_51 are the voltage across and the current entering the termination at the end of the **transmission line** respectively, then and By dividing these equations and substituting for both the voltage reflection coefficient and the normalised impedance of the termination represented by the lower case , subscri...
95. ...hart scaling. This technique is a graphical alternative to substituting the values in the equations. By substituting the expression for how reflection coefficient changes along an unmatched loss-free **transmission line** for the loss free case, into the equation for normalised impedance in terms of reflection coefficient and using Euler's formula yields the impedance-version transmission-line equation for the loss fr...
96. ...f reflection coefficient and using Euler's formula yields the impedance-version transmission-line equation for the loss free case: where formula_67 is the impedance 'seen' at the input of a loss free **transmission line** of length formula_68 terminated with an impedance formula_69 Versions of the transmission-line equation may be similarly derived for the admittance loss free case and for the impedance and admittance...
97. ...ing point on a Smith chart and to draw a circle through that point centred at the Smith chart centre. The path along the arc of the circle represents how the impedance changes whilst moving along the **transmission line**. In this case the circumferential (wavelength) scaling must be used, remembering that this is the wavelength within the transmission line and may differ from the free space wavelength. If a polar dia...
98. ...represents how the impedance changes whilst moving along the transmission line. In this case the circumferential (wavelength) scaling must be used, remembering that this is the wavelength within the **transmission line** and may differ from the free space wavelength. If a polar diagram is mapped on to a cartesian coordinate system it is conventional to measure angles relative to the positive -axis using a countercloc...
99. ...crowave circuits and when high power requires large components in shortwave, FM and TV broadcasting. For distributed components the effects on reflection coefficient and impedance of moving along the **transmission line** must be allowed for using the outer circumferential scale of the Smith chart which is calibrated in wavelengths. The following example shows how a transmission line, terminated with an arbitrary load...
100. ...and impedance of moving along the transmission line must be allowed for using the outer circumferential scale of the Smith chart which is calibrated in wavelengths. The following example shows how a **transmission line**, terminated with an arbitrary load, may be matched at one frequency either with a series or parallel reactive component in each case connected at precise positions. Supposing a loss-free air-spaced t...
101. ...e, terminated with an arbitrary load, may be matched at one frequency either with a series or parallel reactive component in each case connected at precise positions. Supposing a loss-free air-spaced **transmission line** of characteristic impedance formula_98, operating at a frequency of 800 MHz, is terminated with a circuit comprising a 17.5 formula_99 resistor in series with a 6.5 nanohenry (6.5 nH) inductor. How m...
102. ...the normalised impedance (formula_103) is This is plotted on the Z Smith chart at point P. The line OP is extended through to the wavelength scale where it intersects at the point formula_105. As the **transmission line** is loss free, a circle centred at the centre of the Smith chart is drawn through the point P to represent the path of the constant magnitude reflection coefficient due to the termination. At point P...
103. ...tant normalised resistance at  The extension of the line OP intersects the wavelength scale at formula_107, therefore the distance from the termination to this point on the line is given by Since the **transmission line** is air-spaced, the wavelength at 800 MHz in the line is the same as that in free space and is given by where formula_110 is the velocity of electromagnetic radiation in free space and formula_23 is t...
104. ...s capacitor formula_115 is required where Rearranging, we obtain Substitution of known values gives To match the termination at 800 MHz, a series capacitor of 2.6 pF must be placed in series with the **transmission line** at a distance of 29.6 mm from the termination. An alternative shunt match could be calculated after performing a Smith chart transformation from normalised impedance to normalised admittance. Point Q...
105. ...jugate match could be introduced, moving towards the generator, would be at Q, the same position as the previous P, but this time representing a normalised admittance given by  The distance along the **transmission line** is in this case  which converts to 123 mm. The conjugate matching component is required to have a normalised admittance (formula_123) of From the table it can be seen that a negative admittance would...
106. ...gate matching component is required to have a normalised admittance (formula_123) of From the table it can be seen that a negative admittance would require an inductor, connected in parallel with the **transmission line**. If its value is formula_125, then This gives the result  A suitable inductive shunt matching would therefore be a 6.5 nH inductor in parallel with the line positioned at 123 mm from the load. The an...
107. ...t this frequency the free space wavelength is 3 m. The component dimensions themselves will be in the order of millimetres so the assumption of lumped components will be valid. Despite there being no **transmission line** as such, a system impedance must still be defined to enable normalization and de-normalization calculations and formula_128 is a good choice here as formula_129. If there were very different values o...
108. ...y resonator. Transmission lines are structures that allow broadband transmission of electromagnetic waves, e.g. at radio or microwave frequencies. Abrupt change of impedance (e.g. open or short) in a **transmission line** causes reflection of the transmitted signal. Two such reflectors on a transmission line evoke standing waves between them and thus act as a one-dimensional resonator, with the resonance frequencies d...
109. ...tromagnetic waves, e.g. at radio or microwave frequencies. Abrupt change of impedance (e.g. open or short) in a transmission line causes reflection of the transmitted signal. Two such reflectors on a **transmission line** evoke standing waves between them and thus act as a one-dimensional resonator, with the resonance frequencies determined by their distance and the effective dielectric constant of the transmission li...
110. ...ansmission line evoke standing waves between them and thus act as a one-dimensional resonator, with the resonance frequencies determined by their distance and the effective dielectric constant of the **transmission line**. A common form is the resonant stub, a length of transmission line terminated in either a short circuit or open circuit, connected in series or parallel with a main transmission line.  Planar transmi...
111. ...one-dimensional resonator, with the resonance frequencies determined by their distance and the effective dielectric constant of the transmission line. A common form is the resonant stub, a length of **transmission line** terminated in either a short circuit or open circuit, connected in series or parallel with a main transmission line.  Planar transmission-line resonators are commonly employed for coplanar, stripline...
112. ...constant of the transmission line. A common form is the resonant stub, a length of transmission line terminated in either a short circuit or open circuit, connected in series or parallel with a main **transmission line**.  Planar transmission-line resonators are commonly employed for coplanar, stripline, and microstrip transmission lines. Such planar transmission-line resonators can be very compact in size and are wi...
113. ...igible, such as when two wires are capacitively coupled, this may not be the case. This occurs in high-frequency AC circuits, where the lumped element model is no longer applicable. For example, in a **transmission line**, the charge density in the conductor may be constantly changing. On the other hand, the voltage law relies on the fact that the actions of time-varying magnetic fields are confined to individual comp...
114. ...lation powered a synchronous motor at Telluride, Colorado with the motor being started by a Tesla induction motor. On the other side of the Atlantic, Oskar von Miller built a 20 kV 176 km three-phase **transmission line** from Lauffen am Neckar to Frankfurt am Main for the Electrical Engineering Exhibition in Frankfurt. In 1895, after a protracted decision-making process, the Adams No. 1 generating station at Niagara...
115. ...or to the active intervention with devices for the specific purpose of adjusting voltage. In electrical power systems, voltage regulation is a dimensionless quantity defined at the receiving end of a **transmission line** as: where "V" is voltage at no load and "V" is voltage at full load. The percent voltage regulation of an ideal transmission line, as defined by a transmission line with zero resistance and reactance...
116. ...ulation is a dimensionless quantity defined at the receiving end of a transmission line as: where "V" is voltage at no load and "V" is voltage at full load. The percent voltage regulation of an ideal **transmission line**, as defined by a transmission line with zero resistance and reactance, would equal zero due to "V" equaling "V" as a result of there being no voltage drop along the line. This is why a smaller value...
117. ...defined at the receiving end of a transmission line as: where "V" is voltage at no load and "V" is voltage at full load. The percent voltage regulation of an ideal transmission line, as defined by a **transmission line** with zero resistance and reactance, would equal zero due to "V" equaling "V" as a result of there being no voltage drop along the line. This is why a smaller value of "Voltage Regulation" is usually...
118. ...es intrinsically have some amount of resistance, inductance, and capacitance that all change the voltage continuously along the line. Both the magnitude and phase angle of voltage change along a real **transmission line**. The effects of line impedance can be modeled with simplified circuits such as the short line approximation (least accurate), the medium line approximation (more accurate), and the long line approxim...
119. ...the short line approximation (least accurate), the medium line approximation (more accurate), and the long line approximation (most accurate). The short line approximation ignores capacitance of the **transmission line** and models the resistance and reactance of the transmission line as a simple series resistor and inductor. This combination has impedance R + jωL or R + jX. There is a single line current I = I = I i...
120. ...pproximation (more accurate), and the long line approximation (most accurate). The short line approximation ignores capacitance of the transmission line and models the resistance and reactance of the **transmission line** as a simple series resistor and inductor. This combination has impedance R + jωL or R + jX. There is a single line current I = I = I in the short line approximation, different from the medium and lon...
121. ...A and the voltage drop across the line given by Ohm’s law V = IZ is 0 V. The sending and receiving end voltages are thus the same. This value is what the voltage at the receiving end would be if the **transmission line** had no impedance. The voltage would not be changed at all by the line, which is an ideal scenario in power transmission. V is the voltage across the load at the receiving end when the load is connect...
122. ...ge would not be changed at all by the line, which is an ideal scenario in power transmission. V is the voltage across the load at the receiving end when the load is connected and current flows in the **transmission line**. Now V = IZ is nonzero, so the voltages and the sending and receiving ends of the transmission line are not equal. The current I can be found by solving Ohm’s law using a combined line and load imped...
123. ...he voltage across the load at the receiving end when the load is connected and current flows in the transmission line. Now V = IZ is nonzero, so the voltages and the sending and receiving ends of the **transmission line** are not equal. The current I can be found by solving Ohm’s law using a combined line and load impedance: formula_2. Then the V is given by formula_3. The effects of this modulation on voltage magnitu...
124. ...ng so regularly can sometimes cause cumulative damage. Power ratings for electrical apparatus and transmission lines are a function of the duration of the proposed load and the ambient temperature; a **transmission line** or transformer, for example, can carry significantly more load in cold weather than in hot weather. Momentary overloads, causing high temperatures and deterioration of insulation, may be considered a...
125. ...ot essential. The network can always alternatively be analysed in terms of its individual component transfer functions. However, if a network contains distributed components, such as in the case of a **transmission line**, then it is not possible to analyse in terms of individual components since they do not exist. The most common approach to this is to model the line as a two-port network and characterise it using tw...
126. ...nductive, conductive and capacitive modes. Conductive coupling occurs when the coupling path between the source and victim is formed by direct electrical contact with a conducting body, for example a **transmission line**, wire, cable, PCB trace or metal enclosure. Conducted noise is also characterised by the way it appears on different conductors: Inductive coupling occurs where the source and victim are separated by...
127. ...in the usual case where the relative permeability, formula_4, is 1. In the most general case: which includes unusual magnetic conducting materials, such as ferrite. The velocity factor for a lossless **transmission line** is given by: where formula_7 is the distributed inductance (in henries per unit length), formula_8 is the capacitance between the two conductors (in farads per unit length), and formula_9 is the spee...
128. ...generating pulses with widths under approximately 100 picoseconds are often termed as "microwave pulsers" and typically generate these ultra-short pulses using Step recovery diode (SRD) or Nonlinear **Transmission Line** (NLTL) methods (for example ). Step Recovery Diode pulse generators are inexpensive, but typically require several volts of input drive level and have a moderately high level of random jitter (usuall...
129. ...ing equipment (either hand tools or machine driven) that contacts a buried cable may energize piping or the ground in the area, resulting in electrocution of nearby workers. A fault in a high-voltage **transmission line** or substation may result in high currents flowing along the surface of the earth, producing an earth potential rise that also presents a danger of electric shock. For high voltage and extra-high volt...
130. ...coordinated with the typical operating voltage of the apparatus. For high-voltage transmission lines, the impulse level is related to the clearance to ground of energized components. As an example, a **transmission line** rated 138 kV would be designed for a BIL of 650 kV. A higher BIL may be specified than the minimum, where the exposure to lightning is severe. Amazing-Man (DC Comics) Amazing-Man is the name used by...
131. ...intense heating of a sample of matter. Arc is still being used in high voltage switchgear for protection of extra high voltage transmission networks. To protect a unit (e. g., a series capacitor in a **transmission line**) against overvoltage, an arc-inducing device, so called spark gap, is connected in parallel to the unit. Once the voltage reaches the air-breakdown threshold, an arc ignites across the spark plug and...
132. ...ed of sound, but waves in a sea of charge will travel much faster as the forces from one electron are applied to many distant electrons and not to only the neighbors in direct contact. In a hydraulic **transmission line**, the energy flows as mechanical waves through the water, but in an electric transmission line the energy flows as fields in the space surrounding the wires, and does not flow inside the metal. Also,...
133. ...ron are applied to many distant electrons and not to only the neighbors in direct contact. In a hydraulic transmission line, the energy flows as mechanical waves through the water, but in an electric **transmission line** the energy flows as fields in the space surrounding the wires, and does not flow inside the metal. Also, an accelerating electron will drag its neighbors along while attracting them, both because of...
134. ...is exactly zero. This means that a short circuit placed at this point doesn't influence the characteristics of the device. Thus, the Möbius resistor can be thought of as two shorted lossy (resistive) **transmission line** segments, connected in parallel at the resistor's feed point. Boundary element method The boundary element method (BEM) is a numerical computational method of solving linear partial differential equa...
135. ...he qubit parameters. A single qubit gate is achieved by rotation in the Bloch sphere. Rotations between different energy levels of a single qubit are induced by microwave pulses sent to an antenna or **transmission line** coupled to the qubit with a frequency resonant with the energy separation between levels. Individual qubits may be addressed by a dedicated transmission line or by a shared one if the other qubits ar...
136. ...by microwave pulses sent to an antenna or transmission line coupled to the qubit with a frequency resonant with the energy separation between levels. Individual qubits may be addressed by a dedicated **transmission line** or by a shared one if the other qubits are off resonance. The axis of rotation is set by quadrature amplitude modulation of microwave pulse, while pulse length determines the angle of rotation. More...
137. ...interactions between Trish, Dante, and Lady and wanted to see more of them in the anime rather than stories focused on Dante facing enemies. Transfer length method The Transfer Length Method or the "**Transmission Line** Model" (both abbreviated as TLM) is a technique used in semiconductor physics and engineering to determine the specific contact resistivity between a metal and a semiconductor. TLM has been developed...
138. ...ivation of the telegrapher's equations which are used to describe the behaviour of transmission lines. Because of this analogy, the described measurement technique in this article is often called the **transmission line** method. By using Kirchhoff's circuit laws the following expressions for the voltage as well as for the current within the above considered length element (read square in the figure in this section) a...
139. ...coils can be calibrated for direct current or power frequency currents up to a few hundred hertz. At radio frequencies (RF) a common method is a rectifier circuit arranged to respond to current in a **transmission line**; the system is calibrated for the known circuit impedance. Diode detectors are either directly connected to the source, or used with a sampling system that diverts only a portion of the RF power thro...
140. ...rter station may be equipped with a substantial ground bed to facilitate earth return operation of the system. In normal operation of a bipolar HVDC system, current is carried on the two wires of the **transmission line**, but if a line fails or one converter fails, the earth return can be used to maintain partial operation. Ground beds must be designed to accept considerable current ( on the order of 1000 amperes) fo...
141. ...rapidly and accurately modelled with minimal effort. However, the choice to propagate forward in space (rather than in time) brings with it some subtleties, particularly if reflections are important. **Transmission line** matrix (TLM) can be formulated in several means as a direct set of lumped elements solvable directly by a circuit solver (ala SPICE, HSPICE, et al.), as a custom network of elements or via a scatteri...
142. ...ted below. Waveguide (radio frequency) In radio-frequency engineering and communications engineering, a waveguide is a hollow metal pipe used to carry radio waves. This type of waveguide is used as a **transmission line** mostly at microwave frequencies, for such purposes as connecting microwave transmitters and receivers to their antennas, in equipment such as microwave ovens, radar sets, satellite communications, an...
143. ...bility to flex and bend but only used where essential since they degrade propagation properties. Due to propagation of energy in mostly air or space within the waveguide, it is one of the lowest loss **transmission line** types and highly preferred for high frequency applications where most other types of transmission structures introduce large losses. Due to the skin effect at high frequencies, electric current along...
144. ...n other equipment, or switching surges during circuit re-energisation. Overvoltage events such as these are unpredictable, and in general cannot be completely prevented. Line terminations, at which a **transmission line** connects to a busbar or transformer bushing, are at greatest risk to overvoltage due to the change in characteristic impedance at this point. An electrical insulator serves to provide physical separa...
145. ...sher in a new process for establishing centralized and selective controls for the flow of electrical energy over the grid. These controls will affect both large scale (multiple-states) and individual **transmission line** sections at intersecting substations. Transmission line congestion (over-loading), protection, and control will therefore be improved on a multiple region scale (US, Canada, Mexico) through interconn...
146. ...elective controls for the flow of electrical energy over the grid. These controls will affect both large scale (multiple-states) and individual transmission line sections at intersecting substations. **Transmission line** congestion (over-loading), protection, and control will therefore be improved on a multiple region scale (US, Canada, Mexico) through interconnecting ISO's.  A phasor network consists of phasor measu...
147. ...noise resistance measurements. Dr. Jerger's group uses resonators that are coupled with the flux qubit. Each resonator is dedicated to just one qubit, and all resonators can be measured with a single **transmission line**. The state of the flux qubit alters the resonant frequency of the resonator due to a dispersive shift that is picked up by the resonator from the coupling with the flux qubit. The resonant frequency...
148. ...qubit alters the resonant frequency of the resonator due to a dispersive shift that is picked up by the resonator from the coupling with the flux qubit. The resonant frequency is then measured by the **transmission line** for each resonator in the circuit. The state of the flux qubit is then determined by the measured shift in the resonant frequency. Capacitance meter A capacitance meter is a piece of electronic test...
149. ...n the time scale shrinks to several cable transit times (transit time is typically 5 ns). In that time frame, the cable looks like its characteristic impedance, and there will be reflections from the **transmission line** mismatch at the scope input and the probe that causes ringing. The modern scope probe uses lossy low capacitance transmission lines and sophisticated frequency shaping networks to make the 10× probe...
150. ...the shielded cable can be viewed as a lumped capacitor rather than an inductor. Transit time on a 1-meter cable is about 5 ns. Consequently, these probes will work to a few megahertz, but after that **transmission line** effects cause trouble. At high frequencies, the probe impedance will be low. The most common design inserts a 9 megohm resistor in series with the probe tip. The signal is then transmitted from the p...
151. ...ue is needed for high frequency signals. A high frequency oscilloscope presents a matched load (usually 50 ohms) at its input, which minimizes reflections at the scope. Probing with a matching 50-ohm **transmission line** would offer high frequency performance, but it would unduly load most circuits. An attenuator (resistive divider) can be used to minimize loading. At the tip, these probes use a 450 ohm (for 10× atte...
152. ...(for 20× attenuation) series resistor. Tektronix sells a 10× divider probe with a 9 GHz bandwidth with a 450 ohm series resistor. These probes are also called resistive divider probes, since a 50 ohm **transmission line** presents a purely resistive load. The "Z" name refers to the characteristic impedance of the oscilloscope and cable. The matched impedances provide better high-frequency performance than an unmatched...
153. ...enic hydrogen piping, due to the likely weight of the transmission medium and the considerable brittleness of supercooled materials. It would probably be necessary for a supercooled hydrogen-carrying **transmission line** to be subterranean, and this in turn means that for such a cable, if it were of any distance (e.g. over 60 km), the power would have to be converted to DC and transmitted as such, since otherwise the...
154. ...nvironments. For very harsh environments, optical outputs and/or inputs with fiber optic connectors are also offered as options by some manufacturers. In general, a delay generator operates in a 50 Ω **transmission line** environment with the line terminated in its characteristic impedance to minimize reflections and timing ambiguities. Historically, digital delay generators were single channel devices with delay-only...
155. ...tromagnetic field and its reactive (lossless) counterpart. For time-varying electromagnetic fields, the electromagnetic energy is typically viewed as waves propagating either through free space, in a **transmission line**, in a microstrip line, or through a waveguide. Dielectrics are often used in all of these environments to mechanically support electrical conductors and keep them at a fixed separation, or to provide...
156. ...gation distance as where: There are often other contributions to power loss for electromagnetic waves that are not included in this expression, such as due to the wall currents of the conductors of a **transmission line** or waveguide. Also, a similar analysis could be applied to the magnetic permeability where with the subsequent definition of a magnetic loss tangent The electric loss tangent can be similarly defined...
157. ...more typically used to determine resistance. The three electrode systems such as transistors require more complicated methods for the contact resistance approximation. The most common approach is the **transmission line** model (TLM). Here, the total device resistance formula_3 is plotted as a function of the channel length: where formula_5 and formula_6 are contact and channel resistances, respectively, formula_7 is...
158. ...e behaves as an effective medium with negative effective permeability in a narrow band above SRR resonance. SRRs have also been coupled to planar transmission lines for the synthesis of metamaterials **transmission line**. These media create the necessary strong magnetic coupling to an applied electromagnetic field not otherwise available in conventional materials. For example, an effect such as negative permeability...
159. ...s. GIC risk is not a risk of catastrophic failure, but a reduced service life of the pipeline. Pipeline networks are modeled in a similar manner to power grids, for example through distributed source **transmission line** models that provide the pipe-to-soil potential at any point along the pipe (Boteler, 1997). These models need to consider complicated pipeline topologies, including bends and branches, as well as ele...
160. ...ed lines consumed reactive power due to the line's inductance, and as transmission voltage increased throughout the 20th century, the higher voltage supplied capacitive reactive power. As operating a **transmission line** only at it surge impedance loading (SIL) was not feasible, other means to manage the reactive power was needed.  Synchronous Machines were commonly used at the time for generators, and could provide...
161. ...capacitors and reactors are fixed devices, only able to be switched on and off. This required either a careful study of the exact size needed, or accepting less than ideal effects on the voltage of a **transmission line**. The need for a more dynamic and flexible solution was realized with the mercury-arc valve in the early 20th century. Similar to a vacuum tube, the mercury-arc valve was a high-powered rectifier, cap...
162. ...a STATCOM is a voltage source converter (VSC) connected in series with some type of reactance, either a fixed Inductor or a Power Transformer. This allows a STATCOM to control power flow much like a **Transmission Line**, albeit without any active (real) power flow. Given an inductor connected between two AC voltages, the reactive power flow between the two points is given by: formula_1 where formula_2: Reactive Powe...
163. ...be used for a wide variety of applications, however they are better suited for supporting the grid under fault or transient events or contingency events. One popular use is to place a STATCOM along a **transmission line**, to improve system power flow. Under normal operation the STATCOM will do very little, however in the event of a fault of a nearby line, the power that was being served is forced onto other transmiss...
164. ...annel of a R stroke can be considered as a thin isolated wire of length L and diameter d in which negative electric charge has been stored. In terms of electric circuit theory, one can adopt a simple **transmission line** model with a capacitor, where the charge is stored, a resistance of the channel, and an inductance simulating the electric properties of the channel. At the moment of contact with the perfectly condu...
165. ...The load-flow calculation is the most common network analysis tool for examining the undisturbed and disturbed network within the scope of operational and strategic planning. Using network topology, **transmission line** parameters, transformer parameters, generator location and limits, and load location and compensation, the load-flow calculation can provide voltage magnitudes and angles for all nodes and loading of...
166. ...processing and noise reduction are often applied to reduce that noise. Radio-frequency engineering Radio-frequency (RF) engineering is a subset of electrical engineering involving the application of **transmission line**, waveguide, antenna, radar, and electromagnetic field principles to the design and application of devices that produce or use signals within the radio band, the frequency range of about 20 kHz up to...
167. ...ription at a broadcast facility can include maintenance of the station's high-power broadcast transmitters and associated systems. This includes transmitter site emergency power, remote control, main **transmission line** and antenna adjustments, microwave radio relay STL/TSL links, and more. In addition, a radio-frequency design engineer must be able to understand electronic hardware design, circuit board material, a...
168. ...Telluride, Colorado. On the other side of the Atlantic, Mikhail Dolivo-Dobrovolsky and Charles Eugene Lancelot Brown, built the first long-distance () high-voltage (15 kV, then a record) three-phase **transmission line** from Lauffen am Neckar to Frankfurt am Main for the Electrical Engineering Exhibition in Frankfurt, where power was used to light lamps and run a water pump. In the United States the AC/DC competitio...
169. ...no matter how well the horn works. Ferranti effect In electrical engineering, the Ferranti effect is the increase in voltage occurring at the receiving end of a very long (> 200 km) AC electric power **transmission line**, relative to the voltage at the sending end, when the load is very small, or no load is connected. It can be stated as a factor, or as a percent increase. It was first observed during the installatio...
170. ...th the sending-end voltage, assuming negligible line resistance. Therefore, both line inductance and capacitance are responsible for this phenomenon. This can be analysed by considering the line as a **transmission line** where the source impedance is lower than the load impedance (unterminated). The effect is similar to an electrically short version of the quarter-wave impedance transformer, but with smaller voltage...
171. ...ll when the time scale shrinks to several cable transit times or less (transit time is typically 5 ns). In that time frame, the cable looks like its characteristic impedance, and reflections from the **transmission line** mismatch at the scope input and the probe causes ringing. The modern scope probe uses lossy low capacitance transmission lines and sophisticated frequency shaping networks to make the 10× probe perfo...
172. ...und around a flexible, magnetically soft core. The coiling provides distributed inductance, while a conductive layer close to the wires provides distributed capacitance. The combination is a wideband **transmission line** with considerable delay per unit length. Both ends of the delay cable require matched impedances to avoid reflections. Most modern oscilloscopes have several inputs for voltages, and thus can be used...
173. ...ector is significant (for example, if the delay is greater than 1/6 of the rise time of the digital signal), the "lumped" circuit model is no longer valid and the interconnect has to be analyzed as a **transmission line**. In a transmission line, the signal interconnect path is modeled as a circuit containing distributed inductance, capacitance, and resistance throughout its length. For a transmission line to minimize...
174. ...r example, if the delay is greater than 1/6 of the rise time of the digital signal), the "lumped" circuit model is no longer valid and the interconnect has to be analyzed as a transmission line. In a **transmission line**, the signal interconnect path is modeled as a circuit containing distributed inductance, capacitance, and resistance throughout its length. For a transmission line to minimize distortion of the signa...
175. ...alyzed as a transmission line. In a transmission line, the signal interconnect path is modeled as a circuit containing distributed inductance, capacitance, and resistance throughout its length. For a **transmission line** to minimize distortion of the signal, the impedance of every location on the transmission line should be uniform throughout its length. If there is any place in the line where the impedance is not un...
176. ...as a circuit containing distributed inductance, capacitance, and resistance throughout its length. For a transmission line to minimize distortion of the signal, the impedance of every location on the **transmission line** should be uniform throughout its length. If there is any place in the line where the impedance is not uniform for some reason (open circuit, impedance discontinuity, different material) the signal ge...
177. ..."termination". For example, resistors can be placed on computer motherboards to terminate high-speed busses. There are several ways of termination depending on how the resistors are connected to the **transmission line**. Parallel termination and series termination are examples of termination methodologies. Instead of having the necessary resistive termination located on the motherboard, the termination is located in...
178. ...there are three kinds of internal resistors 150ohm, 75ohm, and 50ohm. The resistors can be combined to create a proper equivalent impedance value to the outside of the chip, whereby the signal line (**transmission line**) of the motherboard is controlled by the on-die termination operation signal. Where an on-die termination value control circuit exists the DRAM controller manages the on-die termination resistance th...
179. ...zed by Barth Electronics, VF-TLP has become an important ESD analysis tool for analyzing modern high-speed semiconductor circuits. ANSI/ESD STM5.5.1-2016 Electrostatic Discharge Sensitivity Testing – **Transmission Line** Pulse (TLP) – Component Level ANSI/ESD SP5.5.2-2007 Electrostatic Discharge Sensitivity Testing - Very Fast Transmission Line Pulse (VF-TLP) - Component Level IEC 62615:2010 Electrostatic discharge s...
180. ...its. ANSI/ESD STM5.5.1-2016 Electrostatic Discharge Sensitivity Testing – Transmission Line Pulse (TLP) – Component Level ANSI/ESD SP5.5.2-2007 Electrostatic Discharge Sensitivity Testing - Very Fast **Transmission Line** Pulse (VF-TLP) - Component Level IEC 62615:2010 Electrostatic discharge sensitivity testing - Transmission line pulse (TLP) - Component level Nuclear electronics Nuclear electronics is a subfield of...
181. ...ent Level ANSI/ESD SP5.5.2-2007 Electrostatic Discharge Sensitivity Testing - Very Fast Transmission Line Pulse (VF-TLP) - Component Level IEC 62615:2010 Electrostatic discharge sensitivity testing - **Transmission line** pulse (TLP) - Component level Nuclear electronics Nuclear electronics is a subfield of electronics concerned with the design and use of high-speed electronic systems for nuclear physics and elementar...
182. ...hey will dissipate infinite power unless constraints are placed on them in addition to the usual network laws such as Ohm's and Kirchhoff's laws. There are, however, some real-world applications. The **transmission line** example is one of a class of practical problems that can be modelled by infinitesimal elements (the distributed-element model). Other examples are launching waves into a continuous medium, fringing f...
183. ...s up to 27 kV; voltages between 2.3 and 30 kV are used depending on the size of the generator. The generated power is sent to a nearby step-up transformer, where it is converted to the electric power **transmission line** voltage (typically between 115 and 1200 kV). To control the centrifugal forces at high rotational speeds, the rotor diameter typically does not exceed 1.25 meters; the required large size of the coil...

=== FLOW (1365 occurrences) ===
1. ...tween electricity and magnetism. Furthering Ørsted's experimental work, Ampère showed that two parallel wires carrying electric currents attract or repel each other, depending on whether the currents **flow** in the same or opposite directions, respectively - this laid the foundation of electrodynamics. He also applied mathematics in generalizing physical laws from these experimental results. The most imp...
2. ...ity. He also understood that the frog's legs were irrelevant to the electric current, which was caused by the two differing metals. He replaced the frog's leg with brine-soaked paper and detected the **flow** of electricity by other means familiar to him from his previous studies. In this way, he discovered the electrochemical series, and the law that the electromotive force (emf) of a galvanic cell, cons...
3. ...er electrode, forming bubbles of hydrogen gas, H. This makes the zinc rod the negative electrode and the copper rod the positive electrode. Thus, there are two terminals, and an electric current will **flow** if they are connected. The chemical reactions in this voltaic cell are as follows: Copper metal does not react, but rather it functions as a catalyst for the hydrogen-gas formation and an electrode f...
4. ...with a cathode, an electrode of the device through which conventional current leaves the device. A common mnemonic is ACID, for "anode current into device". The direction of conventional current (the **flow** of positive charges) in a circuit is opposite to the direction of electron flow, so (negatively charged) electrons flow from the anode of a galvanic cell, into an outside or external circuit connecte...
5. ...aves the device. A common mnemonic is ACID, for "anode current into device". The direction of conventional current (the flow of positive charges) in a circuit is opposite to the direction of electron **flow**, so (negatively charged) electrons flow from the anode of a galvanic cell, into an outside or external circuit connected to the cell. For example, the end of a household battery marked with a "+" is...
6. ...ID, for "anode current into device". The direction of conventional current (the flow of positive charges) in a circuit is opposite to the direction of electron flow, so (negatively charged) electrons **flow** from the anode of a galvanic cell, into an outside or external circuit connected to the cell. For example, the end of a household battery marked with a "+" is the cathode (while discharging). In both...
7. ...move, but also the carriers' electric charge. The currents outside the device are usually carried by electrons in a metal conductor. Since electrons have a negative charge, the direction of electron **flow** is opposite to the direction of conventional current. Consequently, electrons leave the device through the anode and enter the device through the cathode. The definition of anode and cathode is diffe...
8. ...rough the cathode. The definition of anode and cathode is different for electrical devices such as diodes and vacuum tubes where the electrode naming is fixed and does not depend on the actual charge **flow** (current). These devices usually allow substantial current flow in one direction but negligible current in the other direction. Therefore, the electrodes are named based on the direction of this "for...
9. ...ent for electrical devices such as diodes and vacuum tubes where the electrode naming is fixed and does not depend on the actual charge flow (current). These devices usually allow substantial current **flow** in one direction but negligible current in the other direction. Therefore, the electrodes are named based on the direction of this "forward" current. In a diode the anode is the terminal through whic...
10. ...is the positive polarity contact in an electrolytic cell. At the anode, anions (negative ions) are forced by the electrical potential to react chemically and give off electrons (oxidation) which then **flow** up and into the driving circuit. Mnemonics: LEO Red Cat (Loss of Electrons is Oxidation, Reduction occurs at the Cathode), or AnOx Red Cat (Anode Oxidation, Reduction Cathode), or OIL RIG (Oxidation...
11. ...rumbles and can produce carbon dioxide in aqueous solutions but otherwise does not participate in the reaction. In a battery or galvanic cell, the anode is the negative electrode from which electrons **flow** out towards the external part of the circuit. Internally the positively charged cations are flowing away from the anode (even though it is negative and therefore would be expected to attract them, th...
12. ...is the positively charged electron collector. In a tube, the anode is a charged positive plate that collects the electrons emitted by the cathode through electric attraction. It also accelerates the **flow** of these electrons. In a semiconductor diode, the anode is the P-doped layer which initially supplies holes to the junction. In the junction region, the holes supplied by the anode combine with elect...
13. ...a positive voltage is applied to anode of the diode from the circuit, more holes are able to be transferred to the depleted region, and this causes the diode to become conductive, allowing current to **flow** through the circuit. The terms anode and cathode should not be applied to a Zener diode, since it allows flow in either direction, depending on the polarity of the applied potential (i.e. voltage). I...
14. ...the depleted region, and this causes the diode to become conductive, allowing current to flow through the circuit. The terms anode and cathode should not be applied to a Zener diode, since it allows **flow** in either direction, depending on the polarity of the applied potential (i.e. voltage). In cathodic protection, a metal anode that is more reactive to the corrosive environment than the metal system...
15. ...g the aether along with them as they move, and this became the accepted explanation for aberration for some time. George Stokes proposed a similar theory, explaining that aberration occurs due to the **flow** of aether induced by the motion of the Earth. Accumulated evidence against these explanations, combined with new understanding of the electromagnetic nature of light, led Hendrik Lorentz to develop a...
16. ...Stokes proposed a 'putty-like' aether which acts as a liquid on large scales but as a solid on small scales, thus supporting both the transverse vibrations required for polarized light and the aether **flow** required to explain aberration. Making only the assumptions that the fluid is irrotational and that the boundary conditions of the flow are such that the aether has zero velocity far from the Earth,...
17. ...ansverse vibrations required for polarized light and the aether flow required to explain aberration. Making only the assumptions that the fluid is irrotational and that the boundary conditions of the **flow** are such that the aether has zero velocity far from the Earth, but moves at the Earth's velocity at its surface and within it, he was able to completely account for aberration. The velocity of the ae...
18. ...f aether and matter to be different for light of different colors, and it was shown that the boundary conditions Stokes had assumed in his theory were inconsistent with his assumption of irrotational **flow**. At the same time, the modern theories of electromagnetic aether could not account for aberration at all. Many scientists such as Maxwell, Heaviside and Hertz unsuccessfully attempted to solve these...
19. ...f the circuit which may be at low potential with respect to earth. Ammeters must not be connected directly across a voltage source since their internal resistance is very low and excess current would **flow**. Ammeters are designed for a low voltage drop across their terminals, much less than one volt; the extra circuit losses produced by the ammeter are called its "burden" on the measured circuit(I). Ord...
20. ...temperatures) are not enough to affect the condensate as a whole, or any individual "member pair" within the condensate. Thus the electrons stay paired together and resist all kicks, and the electron **flow** as a whole (the current through the superconductor) will not experience resistance. Thus, the collective behavior of the condensate is a crucial ingredient necessary for superconductivity. BCS theory...
21. ...09. Producing hard, compact, insoluble, and infusible condensation products of phenols and formaldehyde marked the beginning of the modern plastics industry. Electric current An electric current is a **flow** of charged particles, such as electrons or ions, moving through an electrical conductor or space. It is defined as the net rate of flow of electric charge through a surface. The moving particles are...
22. ...rn plastics industry. Electric current An electric current is a flow of charged particles, such as electrons or ions, moving through an electrical conductor or space. It is defined as the net rate of **flow** of electric charge through a surface. The moving particles are called charge carriers, which may be one of several types of particles, depending on the conductor. In electric circuits the charge carr...
23. ...ugh at least one journal did not change from using to until 1896. The conventional direction of current, also known as "conventional current", is arbitrarily defined as the direction in which charges **flow**. In a conductive material, the moving charged particles that constitute the electric current are called charge carriers. In metals, which make up the wires and other conductors in most electrical cir...
24. ...ers can be positive "or" negative, depending on the dopant used. Positive and negative charge carriers may even be present at the same time, as happens in an electrolyte in an electrochemical cell. A **flow** of positive charges gives the same electric current, and has the same effect in a circuit, as an equal flow of negative charges in the opposite direction. Since current can be the flow of either posi...
25. ...ven be present at the same time, as happens in an electrolyte in an electrochemical cell. A flow of positive charges gives the same electric current, and has the same effect in a circuit, as an equal **flow** of negative charges in the opposite direction. Since current can be the flow of either positive or negative charges, or both, a convention is needed for the direction of current that is independent o...
26. ...emical cell. A flow of positive charges gives the same electric current, and has the same effect in a circuit, as an equal flow of negative charges in the opposite direction. Since current can be the **flow** of either positive or negative charges, or both, a convention is needed for the direction of current that is independent of the type of charge carriers. Negatively charged carriers, such as the elect...
27. ...ent that is independent of the type of charge carriers. Negatively charged carriers, such as the electrons (the charge carriers in metal wires and many other electronic circuit components), therefore **flow** in the opposite direction of conventional current flow in an electrical circuit. A current in a wire or circuit element can flow in either of two directions. When defining a variable formula_1 to rep...
28. ...Negatively charged carriers, such as the electrons (the charge carriers in metal wires and many other electronic circuit components), therefore flow in the opposite direction of conventional current **flow** in an electrical circuit. A current in a wire or circuit element can flow in either of two directions. When defining a variable formula_1 to represent the current, the direction representing positive...
29. ...n metal wires and many other electronic circuit components), therefore flow in the opposite direction of conventional current flow in an electrical circuit. A current in a wire or circuit element can **flow** in either of two directions. When defining a variable formula_1 to represent the current, the direction representing positive current must be specified, usually by an arrow on the circuit schematic d...
30. ...mation encoded (or "modulated") onto the AC signal. In contrast, direct current (DC) refers to a system in which the movement of electric charge in only one direction (sometimes called unidirectional **flow**). Direct current is produced by sources such as batteries, thermocouples, solar cells, and commutator-type electric machines of the dynamo type. Alternating current can also be converted to direct cu...
31. ...eries, thermocouples, solar cells, and commutator-type electric machines of the dynamo type. Alternating current can also be converted to direct current through use of a rectifier. Direct current may **flow** in a conductor such as a wire, but can also flow through semiconductors, insulators, or even through a vacuum as in electron or ion beams. An old name for direct current was "galvanic current". Natur...
32. ...-type electric machines of the dynamo type. Alternating current can also be converted to direct current through use of a rectifier. Direct current may flow in a conductor such as a wire, but can also **flow** through semiconductors, insulators, or even through a vacuum as in electron or ion beams. An old name for direct current was "galvanic current". Natural observable examples of electric current includ...
33. ...Natural observable examples of electric current include lightning, static electric discharge, and the solar wind, the source of the polar auroras. Man-made occurrences of electric current include the **flow** of conduction electrons in metal wires such as the overhead power lines that deliver electrical energy across long distances and the smaller wires within electrical and electronic equipment. Eddy cur...
34. ...in conductors exposed to changing magnetic fields. Similarly, electric currents occur, particularly in the surface, of conductors exposed to electromagnetic waves. When oscillating electric currents **flow** at the correct voltages within radio antennas, radio waves are generated. In electronics, other forms of electric current include the flow of electrons through resistors or through the vacuum in a va...
35. ...to electromagnetic waves. When oscillating electric currents flow at the correct voltages within radio antennas, radio waves are generated. In electronics, other forms of electric current include the **flow** of electrons through resistors or through the vacuum in a vacuum tube, the flow of ions inside a battery, and the flow of holes within metals and semiconductors.  A biological example of current is t...
36. ...voltages within radio antennas, radio waves are generated. In electronics, other forms of electric current include the flow of electrons through resistors or through the vacuum in a vacuum tube, the **flow** of ions inside a battery, and the flow of holes within metals and semiconductors.  A biological example of current is the flow of ions in neurons and nerves, responsible for both thought and sensory...
37. ...waves are generated. In electronics, other forms of electric current include the flow of electrons through resistors or through the vacuum in a vacuum tube, the flow of ions inside a battery, and the **flow** of holes within metals and semiconductors.  A biological example of current is the flow of ions in neurons and nerves, responsible for both thought and sensory perception. Current can be measured usi...
38. ...electrons through resistors or through the vacuum in a vacuum tube, the flow of ions inside a battery, and the flow of holes within metals and semiconductors.  A biological example of current is the **flow** of ions in neurons and nerves, responsible for both thought and sensory perception. Current can be measured using an ammeter. Electric current can be directly measured with a galvanometer, but this m...
39. ...constitute an electric current. To provide a definition of current independent of the type of charge carriers, "conventional current" is defined as moving in the same direction as the positive charge **flow**. So, in metals where the charge carriers (electrons) are negative, conventional current is in the opposite direction to the overall electron movement. In conductors where the charge carriers are posi...
40. ...sitive, conventional current is in the same direction as the charge carriers. In a vacuum, a beam of ions or electrons may be formed. In other conductive materials, the electric current is due to the **flow** of both positively and negatively charged particles at the same time. In still others, the current is entirely due to positive charge flow. For example, the electric currents in electrolytes are flow...
41. ...her conductive materials, the electric current is due to the flow of both positively and negatively charged particles at the same time. In still others, the current is entirely due to positive charge **flow**. For example, the electric currents in electrolytes are flows of positively and negatively charged ions. In a common lead-acid electrochemical cell, electric currents are composed of positive hydroni...
42. ...ons of the conductor are forced to drift toward the positive terminal under the influence of this field. The free electrons are therefore the charge carrier in a typical solid conductor. For a steady **flow** of charge through a surface, the current "I" (in amperes) can be calculated with the following equation: formula_5 where "Q" is the electric charge transferred through the surface over a time "t". If...
43. ...that superconductivity cannot be understood simply as the idealization of "perfect conductivity" in classical physics. In a semiconductor it is sometimes useful to think of the current as due to the **flow** of positive "holes" (the mobile positive charge carriers that are places where the semiconductor crystal is missing a valence electron). This is the case in a p-type semiconductor. A semiconductor ha...
44. ...xample in one dimensionthat is in a nanowire, for every energy there is a state with electrons flowing in one direction and another state with the electrons flowing in the other. For a net current to **flow**, more states for one direction than for the other direction must be occupied. For this to occur, energy is required, as in the semiconductor the next higher states lie above the band gap. Often this...
45. ...increasing the apparent resistance. The mobile charged particles within a conductor move constantly in random directions, like the particles of a gas. (More accurately, a Fermi gas.) To create a net **flow** of charge, the particles must also move together with an average drift rate. Electrons are the charge carriers in most metals and they follow an erratic path, bouncing from atom to atom, but generall...
46. ...om to atom, but generally drifting in the opposite direction of the electric field. The speed they drift at can be calculated from the equation: formula_11 where Typically, electric charges in solids **flow** slowly. For example, in a copper wire of cross-section 0.5 mm, carrying a current of 5 A, the drift velocity of the electrons is on the order of a millimetre per second. To take a different example,...
47. ...conventional current describes the direction in which positive charges move. Electrons have a negative electrical charge, so the movement of electrons is opposite to that of the conventional current **flow**. Consequently, the mnemonic "cathode current departs" also means that electrons flow "into" the device's cathode from the external circuit. For example, the end of a household battery marked with a +...
48. ...ns have a negative electrical charge, so the movement of electrons is opposite to that of the conventional current flow. Consequently, the mnemonic "cathode current departs" also means that electrons **flow** "into" the device's cathode from the external circuit. For example, the end of a household battery marked with a + (plus) is the cathode. The electrode through which conventional current flows the ot...
49. ...mical compounds); or positive as when the cell is galvanic (where chemical reactions are used for generating electrical energy). The cathode supplies electrons to the positively charged cations which **flow** to it from the electrolyte (even if the cell is galvanic, i.e., when the cathode is positive and therefore would be expected to repel the positively charged cations; this is due to electrode potentia...
50. ...to electrode potential relative to the electrolyte solution being different for the anode and cathode metal/electrolyte systems in a galvanic cell). The cathodic current, in electrochemistry, is the **flow** of electrons from the cathode interface to a species in solution. The anodic current is the flow of electrons into the anode from a species in solution. In an electrolytic cell, the cathode is where...
51. ...thode metal/electrolyte systems in a galvanic cell). The cathodic current, in electrochemistry, is the flow of electrons from the cathode interface to a species in solution. The anodic current is the **flow** of electrons into the anode from a species in solution. In an electrolytic cell, the cathode is where the negative polarity is applied to drive the cell. Common results of reduction at the cathode ar...
52. ...and consequently fixed negative dopants which have captured an electron (hence the origin of the holes). When P and N-doped layers are created adjacent to each other, diffusion ensures that electrons **flow** from high to low density areas: That is, from the N to the P side. They leave behind the fixed positively charged dopants near the junction. Similarly, holes diffuse from P to N leaving behind fixed...
53. ...holes. The depletion layer at the junction is at the origin of the diode's rectifying properties. This is due to the resulting internal field and corresponding potential barrier which inhibit current **flow** in reverse applied bias which increases the internal depletion layer field. Conversely, they allow it in forwards applied bias where the applied bias reduces the built in potential barrier. Electrons...
54. ...hode across the junction or depletion layer and recombining. Like a typical diode, there is a fixed anode and cathode in a Zener diode, but it will conduct current in the reverse direction (electrons **flow** from anode to cathode) if its breakdown voltage or "Zener voltage" is exceeded. Control engineering Control engineering, also known as control systems engineering and, in some European countries, aut...
55. ...ice on record is thought to be the ancient Ktesibios's water clock in Alexandria, Egypt, around the third century BCE. It kept time by regulating the water level in a vessel and, therefore, the water **flow** from that vessel. This certainly was a successful device as water clocks of similar design were still being made in Baghdad when the Mongols captured the city in 1258 CE. A variety of automatic devic...
56. ...ces) was an experimental anomaly not explained by the wave theory: the photoelectric effect, in which light striking a metal surface ejected electrons from the surface, causing an electric current to **flow** across an applied voltage. Experimental measurements demonstrated that the energy of individual ejected electrons was proportional to the "frequency", rather than the "intensity", of the light. Furth...
57. ...cted electrons was proportional to the "frequency", rather than the "intensity", of the light. Furthermore, below a certain minimum frequency, which depended on the particular metal, no current would **flow** regardless of the intensity. These observations appeared to contradict the wave theory, and for years physicists tried in vain to find an explanation. In 1905, Einstein explained this puzzle by resur...
58. ...siparticles, which have the same electrical charge, spin, and magnetic moment as real electrons but might have a different mass. When free electrons—both in vacuum and metals—move, they produce a net **flow** of charge called an electric current, which generates a magnetic field. Likewise a current can be created by a changing magnetic field. These interactions are described mathematically by Maxwell's eq...
59. ...uter monitors and television sets. In a photomultiplier tube, every photon striking the photocathode initiates an avalanche of electrons that produces a detectable current pulse. Vacuum tubes use the **flow** of electrons to manipulate electrical signals, and they played a critical role in the development of electronics technology. However, they have been largely supplanted by solid-state devices such as...
60. ...her kinds of image processing, video processing, audio processing, and speech processing. Instrumentation engineering deals with the design of devices to measure physical quantities such as pressure, **flow**, and temperature. The design of such instruments requires a good understanding of physics that often extends beyond electromagnetic theory. For example, flight instruments measure variables such as w...
61. ...to detect a radio signal by the contact junction effect. In a solid-state component, the current is confined to solid elements and compounds engineered specifically to switch and amplify it. Current **flow** can be understood in two forms: as negatively charged electrons, and as positively charged electron deficiencies called holes. These charges and holes are understood in terms of quantum physics. The...
62. ...y of which is usually measured in amperes. Current can consist of any moving charged particles; most commonly these are electrons, but any charge in motion constitutes a current. Electric current can **flow** through some things, electrical conductors, but will not flow through an electrical insulator. By historical convention, a positive current is defined as having the same direction of flow as any posi...
63. ...of any moving charged particles; most commonly these are electrons, but any charge in motion constitutes a current. Electric current can flow through some things, electrical conductors, but will not **flow** through an electrical insulator. By historical convention, a positive current is defined as having the same direction of flow as any positive charge it contains, or to flow from the most positive par...
64. ...current can flow through some things, electrical conductors, but will not flow through an electrical insulator. By historical convention, a positive current is defined as having the same direction of **flow** as any positive charge it contains, or to flow from the most positive part of a circuit to the most negative part. Current defined in this manner is called conventional current. The motion of negativ...
65. ...l conductors, but will not flow through an electrical insulator. By historical convention, a positive current is defined as having the same direction of flow as any positive charge it contains, or to **flow** from the most positive part of a circuit to the most negative part. Current defined in this manner is called conventional current. The motion of negatively charged electrons around an electric circui...
66. ...it, one of the most familiar forms of current, is thus deemed positive in the "opposite" direction to that of the electrons. However, depending on the conditions, an electric current can consist of a **flow** of charged particles in either direction, or even in both directions at once. The positive-to-negative convention is widely used to simplify this situation. The process by which electric current pass...
67. ...cal conduction, and its nature varies with that of the charged particles and the material through which they are travelling. Examples of electric currents include metallic conduction, where electrons **flow** through a conductor such as metal, and electrolysis, where ions (charged atoms) flow through liquids, or through plasmas such as electrical sparks. While the particles themselves can move quite slowl...
68. ...rial through which they are travelling. Examples of electric currents include metallic conduction, where electrons flow through a conductor such as metal, and electrolysis, where ions (charged atoms) **flow** through liquids, or through plasmas such as electrical sparks. While the particles themselves can move quite slowly, sometimes with an average drift velocity only fractions of a millimetre per second...
69. ...C) or alternating current (AC). These terms refer to how the current varies in time. Direct current, as produced by example from a battery and required by most electronic devices, is a unidirectional **flow** from the positive part of a circuit to the negative. If, as is most common, this flow is carried by electrons, they will be travelling in the opposite direction. Alternating current is any current th...
70. ...irect current, as produced by example from a battery and required by most electronic devices, is a unidirectional flow from the positive part of a circuit to the negative. If, as is most common, this **flow** is carried by electrons, they will be travelling in the opposite direction. Alternating current is any current that reverses direction repeatedly; almost always this takes the form of a sine wave. Al...
71. ...urrent-carrying wire, but acted at right angles to it. Ørsted's words were that "the electric conflict acts in a revolving manner." The force also depended on the direction of the current, for if the **flow** was reversed, then the force did too. Ørsted did not fully understand his discovery, but he observed the effect was reciprocal: a current exerts a force on a magnet, and a magnetic field exerts a for...
72. ...er using magnetism, a possibility that would be taken up by those that followed on from his work. An electric circuit is an interconnection of electric components such that electric charge is made to **flow** along a closed path (a circuit), usually to perform some useful task. The components in an electric circuit can take many forms, which can include elements such as resistors, capacitors, switches, tr...
73. ...within homes and factories. Public utilities were set up in many cities targeting the burgeoning market for electrical lighting. In the late 20th century and in modern times, the trend has started to **flow** in the direction of deregulation in the electrical power sector. The resistive Joule heating effect employed in filament light bulbs also sees more direct use in electric heating. While this is versa...
74. ...more sources of electromotive force. Practical examples of such sources include a battery or a generator. Active elements can inject power to the circuit, provide power gain, and control the current **flow** within the circuit. Passive networks do not contain any sources of electromotive force. They consist of passive elements like resistors and capacitors. A network is linear if its signals obey the pri...
75. ...he cathode and the ion's oxidation state is reduced to 0. This forms a solid metal that electrodeposits on the cathode. The two electrodes must be electrically connected to each other, allowing for a **flow** of electrons that leave the metal of the anode and flow through this connection to the ions at the surface of the cathode. This flow of electrons is an electric current that can be used to do work, s...
76. .... This forms a solid metal that electrodeposits on the cathode. The two electrodes must be electrically connected to each other, allowing for a flow of electrons that leave the metal of the anode and **flow** through this connection to the ions at the surface of the cathode. This flow of electrons is an electric current that can be used to do work, such as turn a motor or power a light. A galvanic cell wh...
77. ...rodes must be electrically connected to each other, allowing for a flow of electrons that leave the metal of the anode and flow through this connection to the ions at the surface of the cathode. This **flow** of electrons is an electric current that can be used to do work, such as turn a motor or power a light. A galvanic cell whose electrodes are zinc and copper submerged in zinc sulfate and copper sulfa...
78. ...and copper ions accept electrons from the copper metal electrode and the ions deposit at the copper cathode as an electrodeposit. This cell forms a simple battery as it will spontaneously generate a **flow** of electric current from the anode to the cathode through the external connection. This reaction can be driven in reverse by applying a voltage, resulting in the deposition of zinc metal at the anode...
79. ...ction path. The simplest ionic conduction path is to provide a liquid junction. To avoid mixing between the two electrolytes, the liquid junction can be provided through a porous plug that allows ion **flow** while minimizing electrolyte mixing. To further minimize mixing of the electrolytes, a salt bridge can be used which consists of an electrolyte saturated gel in an inverted U-tube. As the negatively...
80. ...electrolyte mixing. To further minimize mixing of the electrolytes, a salt bridge can be used which consists of an electrolyte saturated gel in an inverted U-tube. As the negatively charged electrons **flow** in one direction around this circuit, the positively charged metal ions flow in the opposite direction in the electrolyte. A voltmeter is capable of measuring the change of electrical potential betwe...
81. ...idge can be used which consists of an electrolyte saturated gel in an inverted U-tube. As the negatively charged electrons flow in one direction around this circuit, the positively charged metal ions **flow** in the opposite direction in the electrolyte. A voltmeter is capable of measuring the change of electrical potential between the anode and the cathode. The electrochemical cell voltage is also referr...
82. ...battery, which does not (and cannot) use water in the electrolyte, provides improved performance over other types; a rechargeable lithium-ion battery is an essential part of many mobile devices. The **flow** battery, an experimental type, offers the option of vastly larger energy capacity because its reactants can be replenished from external reservoirs. The fuel cell can turn the chemical energy bound i...
83. ...other electrically charged particles. It is a subfield of physics and electrical engineering which uses active devices such as transistors, diodes, and integrated circuits to control and amplify the **flow** of electric current and to convert it from one form to another, such as from alternating current (AC) to direct current (DC) or from analog signals to digital signals. Electronic devices have hugely...
84. ...detection of small electrical voltages, such as radio signals from a radio antenna, practicable. Vacuum tubes (thermionic valves) were the first active electronic components which controlled current **flow** by influencing the flow of individual electrons, and enabled the construction of equipment that used current amplification and rectification to give us radio, television, radar, long-distance telepho...
85. ...trical voltages, such as radio signals from a radio antenna, practicable. Vacuum tubes (thermionic valves) were the first active electronic components which controlled current flow by influencing the **flow** of individual electrons, and enabled the construction of equipment that used current amplification and rectification to give us radio, television, radar, long-distance telephony and much more. The ea...
86. ...integrated circuits. Passive electronic components are capacitors, inductors, resistors, whilst active components are such as semiconductor devices; transistors and thyristors, which control current **flow** at electron level. Electronic circuit functions can be divided into two function groups: analog and digital. A particular device may consist of circuitry that has either or a mix of the two types. An...
87. ...for example, he believed that it was the glass in a Leyden jar that held the accumulated charge. He posited that rubbing insulating surfaces together caused this fluid to change location, and that a **flow** of this fluid constitutes an electric current. He also posited that when matter contained an excess of the fluid it was charged and when it had a deficit it was charged. He identified the term with v...
88. ...r kind must be considered as a matter of arbitrary convention—just as it is a matter of convention in mathematical diagram to reckon positive distances towards the right hand. Electric current is the **flow** of electric charge through an object. The most common charge carriers are the positively charged proton and the negatively charged electron. The movement of any of these charged particles constitutes...
89. ...at simplifies electromagnetic concepts and calculations. At the opposite extreme, if one looks at the microscopic situation, one sees there are many ways of carrying an electric current, including: a **flow** of electrons; a flow of electron holes that act like positive particles; and both negative and positive particles (ions or other charged particles) flowing in opposite directions in an electrolytic s...
90. ...magnetic concepts and calculations. At the opposite extreme, if one looks at the microscopic situation, one sees there are many ways of carrying an electric current, including: a flow of electrons; a **flow** of electron holes that act like positive particles; and both negative and positive particles (ions or other charged particles) flowing in opposite directions in an electrolytic solution or a plasma....
91. ...dós), 'a way'. The anode is the electrode through which the conventional current enters from the electrical circuit of an electrochemical cell (battery) into the non-metallic cell. The electrons then **flow** to the other side of the battery. Benjamin Franklin surmised that the electrical flow moved from positive to negative. The electrons flow away from the anode and the conventional current towards it....
92. ...s from the electrical circuit of an electrochemical cell (battery) into the non-metallic cell. The electrons then flow to the other side of the battery. Benjamin Franklin surmised that the electrical **flow** moved from positive to negative. The electrons flow away from the anode and the conventional current towards it. From both can be concluded that the charge of the anode is negative. The electron ente...
93. ...cell (battery) into the non-metallic cell. The electrons then flow to the other side of the battery. Benjamin Franklin surmised that the electrical flow moved from positive to negative. The electrons **flow** away from the anode and the conventional current towards it. From both can be concluded that the charge of the anode is negative. The electron entering the anode comes from the oxidation reaction tha...
94. ...ny ways the opposite of the anode. The name (also coined by Whewell) comes from the Greek words κάτω (kato), 'downwards' and ὁδός (hodós), 'a way'. It is the positive electrode, meaning the electrons **flow** from the electrical circuit through the cathode into the non-metallic part of the electrochemical cell. At the cathode, the reduction reaction takes place with the electrons arriving from the wire co...
95. ...use alternating current, the electrodes are the connections from the circuitry to the object to be acted upon by the electric current but are not designated anode or cathode because the direction of **flow** of the electrons changes periodically, usually many times per second. Chemically modified electrodes are electrodes that have their surfaces chemically modified to change the electrode's physical, ch...
96. ...he supersaturated iron), lime-rich slag, and some iron. The iron is recycled on-site, leaving a mixture of graphite and slag. The best recovery process uses hydraulic classification (which utilizes a **flow** of water to separate minerals by specific gravity: graphite is light and settles nearly last) to get a 70% graphite rough concentrate. Leaching this concentrate with hydrochloric acid gives a 95% gra...
97. ...ses used in the past produced sheets with imperfect surfaces and non-uniform thickness (the near-perfect float glass used today only became widespread in the 1960s). A 2017 study computed the rate of **flow** of the medieval glass used in Westminster Abbey from the year 1268. The study found that the room temperature viscosity of this glass was roughly 10Pa·s which is about 10 times less viscous than a pr...
98. ...·s which is about 10 times less viscous than a previous estimate made in 1998, which focused on soda-lime silicate glass. Even with this lower viscosity, the study authors calculated that the maximum **flow** rate of medieval glass is 1 nm per billion years, making it impossible to observe in a human timescale. Silicon dioxide (SiO) is a common fundamental constituent of glass. Fused quartz is a glass mad...
99. ...ntial is established for as long as the charge is flowing. In classical electromagnetism electrons move in the opposite direction of the current (by convention "current" describes a theoretical "hole **flow**"). In some metals and semiconductors it "appears" "holes" are actually flowing because the direction of the voltage is opposite to the derivation below. For a simple metal where there is only one typ...
100. ...eel to further reduce eddy current losses. For higher frequencies, inductors are made with cores of ferrite. Ferrite is a ceramic ferrimagnetic material that is nonconductive, so eddy currents cannot **flow** within it. The formulation of ferrite is xxFeO where xx represents various metals. For inductor cores soft ferrites are used, which have low coercivity and thus low hysteresis losses. Another materia...
101. ...mmon simplified formulas for calculating the approximate inductance of several inductor constructions. Insulator (electricity) An electrical insulator is a material in which electric current does not **flow** freely. The atoms of the insulator have tightly bound electrons which cannot readily move. Other materials—semiconductors and conductors—conduct electric current more easily. The property that distin...
102. ...ting supports used to attach electric power distribution or transmission lines to utility poles and transmission towers. They support the weight of the suspended wires without allowing the current to **flow** through the tower to ground. Electrical insulation is the absence of electrical conduction. Electronic band theory (a branch of physics) explains that electric charge flows when quantum states of mat...
103. ...ula_22 is the speed of light and ∇· denotes the divergence of a tensor field. Rather than the amount of charge and its velocity in electric and magnetic fields, this equation relates the energy flux (**flow** of "energy" per unit time per unit distance) in the fields to the force exerted on a charge distribution. See Covariant formulation of classical electromagnetism for more details. The density of powe...
104. ...ine and biomedical research, it also may be used to form images of non-living objects, such as mummies. Diffusion MRI and functional MRI extend the utility of MRI to capture neuronal tracts and blood **flow** respectively in the nervous system, in addition to detailed spatial images. The sustained increase in demand for MRI within health systems has led to concerns about cost effectiveness and overdiagnos...
105. ...s region the throat and oesophagus can help to avoid this artifact. Motion artifact arising due to pumping of the heart can be reduced by timing the MRI pulse according to heart cycles. Blood vessels **flow** artifacts can be reduced by applying saturation pulses above and below the region of interest. Hepatobiliary MR is used to detect and characterize lesions of the liver, pancreas, and bile ducts. Foca...
106. ...s, and the legs (called a "run-off"). A variety of techniques can be used to generate the pictures, such as administration of a paramagnetic contrast agent (gadolinium) or using a technique known as "**flow**-related enhancement" (e.g., 2D and 3D time-of-flight sequences), where most of the signal on an image is due to blood that recently moved into that plane (see also FLASH MRI). Techniques involving ph...
107. ...signal on an image is due to blood that recently moved into that plane (see also FLASH MRI). Techniques involving phase accumulation (known as phase contrast angiography) can also be used to generate **flow** velocity maps easily and accurately. Magnetic resonance venography (MRV) is a similar procedure that is used to image veins. In this method, the tissue is now excited inferiorly, while the signal is...
108. ...e signal is gathered in the plane immediately superior to the excitation plane—thus imaging the venous blood that recently moved from the excited plane. MRI for imaging anatomical structures or blood **flow** do not require contrast agents since the varying properties of the tissues or blood provide natural contrasts. However, for more specific types of imaging, exogenous contrast agents may be given intr...
109. ...I is used industrially mainly for routine analysis of chemicals. The nuclear magnetic resonance technique is also used, for example, to measure the ratio between water and fat in foods, monitoring of **flow** of corrosive fluids in pipes, or to study molecular structures such as catalysts. Being non-invasive and non-damaging, MRI can be used to study the anatomy of plants, their water transportation proce...
110. ...laboratory work, exploring electromagnetic properties of materials and developing requisite experience. In 1824, Faraday briefly set up a circuit to study whether a magnetic field could regulate the **flow** of a current in an adjacent wire, but he found no such relationship. This experiment followed similar work conducted with light and magnets three years earlier that yielded identical results. During...
111. ...n differential and integral form follows likewise. The line integrals and curls are analogous to quantities in classical fluid dynamics: the circulation of a fluid is the line integral of the fluid's **flow** velocity field around a closed loop, and the vorticity of the fluid is the curl of the velocity field. The invariance of charge can be derived as a corollary of Maxwell's equations. The left-hand sid...
112. ...ace environment close to a planetary body with a dipole magnetic field such as Earth, the field lines resemble a simple magnetic dipole. Farther out, field lines can be significantly distorted by the **flow** of electrically conducting plasma, as emitted from the Sun (i.e., the solar wind) or a nearby star. Planets having active magnetospheres, like the Earth, are capable of mitigating or blocking the eff...
113. ...nature of sources of plasma and momentum, the period of the object's spin, the nature of the axis about which the object spins, the axis of the magnetic dipole, and the magnitude and direction of the **flow** of solar wind. The planetary distance where the magnetosphere can withstand the solar wind pressure is called the Chapman–Ferraro distance. This is usefully modeled by the formula wherein formula_1 r...
114. ...n the surface of the planet at the equator, and formula_3 represents the velocity of the solar wind: A magnetosphere is classified as "intrinsic" when formula_5, or when the primary opposition to the **flow** of solar wind is the magnetic field of the object. Mercury, Earth, Jupiter, Ganymede, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune, for example, exhibit intrinsic magnetospheres. A magnetosphere is classified as "ind...
115. ...e of the magnetic field varies erratically. This is caused by the collection of solar wind gas that has effectively undergone thermalization. It acts as a cushion that transmits the pressure from the **flow** of the solar wind and the barrier of the magnetic field from the object. The magnetopause is the area of the magnetosphere wherein the pressure from the planetary magnetic field is balanced with the...
116. ...bes. Magnetic field lines in the northern tail lobe point towards the object while those in the southern tail lobe point away. The tail lobes are almost empty, with few charged particles opposing the **flow** of the solar wind. The two lobes are separated by a plasma sheet, an area where the magnetic field is weaker, and the density of charged particles is higher. Over Earth's equator, the magnetic field...
117. ...found use in the form of luxury car speedometers and other instruments. When World War I broke out, the British cut the transatlantic telegraph cable linking the US to Germany in order to control the **flow** of information between the two countries. They also tried to shut off German wireless communication to and from the US by having the US Marconi Company sue the German radio company Telefunken for pat...
118. ...ons about the 109.47° tetrahedral bonds of singly bonded carbon atoms. When extruded into fibers through pores in an industry spinneret, the individual polymer chains tend to align because of viscous **flow**. If subjected to cold drawing afterwards, the fibers align further, increasing their crystallinity, and the material acquires additional tensile strength. In practice, nylon fibers are most often dra...
119. ...h photoemission can occur from any material, it is most readily observed from metals and other conductors. This is because the process produces a charge imbalance which, if not neutralized by current **flow**, results in the increasing potential barrier until the emission completely ceases. The energy barrier to photoemission is usually increased by nonconductive oxide layers on metal surfaces, so most pr...
120. ...practical experiments and devices based on the photoelectric effect use clean metal surfaces in evacuated tubes. Vacuum also helps observing the electrons since it prevents gases from impeding their **flow** between the electrodes. As sunlight, due to atmosphere's absorption, does not provide much ultraviolet light, the light rich in ultraviolet rays used to be obtained by burning magnesium or from an ar...
121. ...affic areas is critical for optimization of the energy harvesting efficiency, as well as the orientation of the tile pavement significantly affects the total amount of the harvested energy. A density **flow** evaluation is recommended to qualitatively evaluate the piezoelectric power harvesting potential of the considered area based on the number of pedestrian crossings per unit time. In X. Li's study, th...
122. ...derivative. Resistor A resistor is a passive two-terminal electrical component that implements electrical resistance as a circuit element. In electronic circuits, resistors are used to reduce current **flow**, adjust signal levels, to divide voltages, bias active elements, and terminate transmission lines, among other uses. High-power resistors that can dissipate many watts of electrical power as heat may...
123. ...number to 0.05 μV/°C. In applications where the thermoelectric effect may become important, care has to be taken to mount the resistors horizontally to avoid temperature gradients and to mind the air **flow** over the board. The failure rate of resistors in a properly designed circuit is low compared to other electronic components such as semiconductors and electrolytic capacitors. Damage to resistors mos...
124. ...hpot is used. A dashpot is a piston filled with fluid that is allowed to escape slowly; both air-filled and oil-filled dashpots are used. The time period can be varied by increasing or decreasing the **flow** rate. For longer time periods, a mechanical clockwork timer is installed. Relays may be arranged for a fixed timing period, or may be field-adjustable, or remotely set from a control panel. Modern mi...
125. ...change instantaneously, which creates a potentially damaging arc across the separating contacts. Consequently, for relays used to control inductive loads, we must specify the maximum current that may **flow** through the relay contacts when it actuates, the "make rating"; the continuous rating; and the "break rating". The make rating may be several times larger than the continuous rating, which is larger...
126. ...y was indispensable amounted to about five billion euros, with MRI systems accounting for about 80% of that total. In 1962, Josephson made the important theoretical prediction that a supercurrent can **flow** between two pieces of superconductor separated by a thin layer of insulator. This phenomenon, now called the Josephson effect, is exploited by superconducting devices such as SQUIDs. It is used in th...
127. ...the lattice, given by "kT", where "k" is the Boltzmann constant and "T" is the temperature, the fluid will not be scattered by the lattice. The Cooper pair fluid is thus a superfluid, meaning it can **flow** without energy dissipation. In the class of superconductors known as type II superconductors, including all known high-temperature superconductors, an extremely low but non-zero resistivity appears a...
128. ...field past a critical value "H" leads to a mixed state (also known as the vortex state) in which an increasing amount of magnetic flux penetrates the material, but there remains no resistance to the **flow** of electric current as long as the current is not too large. At a second critical field strength "H", superconductivity is destroyed. The mixed state is actually caused by vortices in the electronic...
129. ...its high cost, although an exception is in radio-frequency engineering, particularly at VHF and higher frequencies where silver plating improves electrical conductivity because those currents tend to **flow** on the surface of conductors rather than through the interior. During World War II in the US, tons of silver were used for the electromagnets in calutrons for enriching uranium, mainly because of the...
130. ...in quantum physics led in turn to the invention of the transistor in 1947 and the integrated circuit in 1958. Semiconductors in their natural state are poor conductors because a current requires the **flow** of electrons, and semiconductors have their valence bands filled, preventing the entire flow of new electrons. Several developed techniques allow semiconducting materials to behave like conducting ma...
131. ...circuit in 1958. Semiconductors in their natural state are poor conductors because a current requires the flow of electrons, and semiconductors have their valence bands filled, preventing the entire **flow** of new electrons. Several developed techniques allow semiconducting materials to behave like conducting materials, such as doping or gating. These modifications have two outcomes: n-type and p-type....
132. ...s doping or gating. These modifications have two outcomes: n-type and p-type. These refer to the excess or shortage of electrons, respectively. A balanced number of electrons would cause a current to **flow** throughout the material. Homojunctions occur when two differently doped semiconducting materials are joined. For example, a configuration could consist of p-doped and n-doped germanium. This results...
133. ...e general gain equation approaches a linear asymptote: Superconducting magnetic energy storage Superconducting magnetic energy storage (SMES) systems store energy in the magnetic field created by the **flow** of direct current in a superconducting coil that has been cryogenically cooled to a temperature below its superconducting critical temperature. This use of superconducting coils to store magnetic ene...
134. ...nditioning system typically contains a power conversion system that converts DC to AC current and the other way around. The control system monitors the power demand of the grid and controls the power **flow** from and to the coil. The control system also manages the condition of the SMES coil by controlling the refrigerator. As a consequence of Faraday's law of induction, any loop of wire that generates a...
135. ...m water to air, and about 42° for incidence from common glass to air. Details of the mechanism of TIR give rise to more subtle phenomena. While total reflection, by definition, involves no continuing **flow** of power "across" the interface between the two media, the external medium carries a so-called "evanescent wave", which travels "along" the interface with an amplitude that falls off exponentially wi...
136. ...opular as diamond simulants. Mathematically, waves are described in terms of time-varying fields, a "field" being a function of location in space. A propagating wave requires an "effort" field and a "**flow**" field, the latter being a vector (if we are working in two or three dimensions). The product of effort and flow is related to power (see "System equivalence"). For example, for sound waves in a non-...
137. ...a function of location in space. A propagating wave requires an "effort" field and a "flow" field, the latter being a vector (if we are working in two or three dimensions). The product of effort and **flow** is related to power (see "System equivalence"). For example, for sound waves in a non-viscous fluid, we might take the effort field as the pressure (a scalar), and the flow field as the fluid velocit...
138. ...The product of effort and flow is related to power (see "System equivalence"). For example, for sound waves in a non-viscous fluid, we might take the effort field as the pressure (a scalar), and the **flow** field as the fluid velocity (a vector). The product of these two is intensity (power per unit area). For electromagnetic waves, we shall take the effort field as the electric field and the flow field...
139. ...d the flow field as the fluid velocity (a vector). The product of these two is intensity (power per unit area). For electromagnetic waves, we shall take the effort field as the electric field and the **flow** field as the magnetizing field . Both of these are vectors, and their vector product is again the intensity (see "Poynting vector"). When a wave in (say) medium 1 is reflected off the interface betwe...
140. ...d . Both of these are vectors, and their vector product is again the intensity (see "Poynting vector"). When a wave in (say) medium 1 is reflected off the interface between medium 1 and medium 2, the **flow** field in medium 1 is the vector sum of the flow fields due to the incident and reflected waves. If the reflection is oblique, the incident and reflected fields are not in opposite directions and ther...
141. ...product is again the intensity (see "Poynting vector"). When a wave in (say) medium 1 is reflected off the interface between medium 1 and medium 2, the flow field in medium 1 is the vector sum of the **flow** fields due to the incident and reflected waves. If the reflection is oblique, the incident and reflected fields are not in opposite directions and therefore cannot cancel out at the interface; even i...
142. ...waves, one of the interface conditions is that the tangential component of is continuous if there is no surface current. Hence, even if the reflection is total, there must be some penetration of the **flow** field into medium 2; and this, in combination with the laws relating the effort and flow fields, implies that there will also be some penetration of the effort field. The same continuity condition im...
143. ...if there is no surface current. Hence, even if the reflection is total, there must be some penetration of the flow field into medium 2; and this, in combination with the laws relating the effort and **flow** fields, implies that there will also be some penetration of the effort field. The same continuity condition implies that the variation ("waviness") of the field in medium 2 will be synchronized with...
144. ...ue to heterogeneous photothermal effect. Processing PTFE can be difficult and expensive because its high melting temperature, , is above its decomposition temperature. Even when molten, PTFE does not **flow** due to its exceedingly high melt-viscosity. The viscosity and melting point can be decreased by inclusion of small amount of comonomers such as perfluoro (propylvinyl ether) and hexafluoropropylene (...
145. ...used as the liner in hose assemblies, expansion joints, and in industrial pipe lines, particularly in applications using acids, alkalis, or other chemicals. Its frictionless qualities allow improved **flow** of highly viscous liquids and for uses in applications such as brake hoses. PTFE architectural membranes are created by coating a woven glass-fibre base cloth with PTFE, forming one of the strongest...
146. ...a (which serves to inhibit rust), and for the dry film it forms after application, which allows it to resist collecting particles that might otherwise form an abrasive paste. Brands include GT85, Tri-**Flow** and WD-40 Specialist. PTFE is best known for its use in coating non-stick frying pans and other cookware, as it is hydrophobic and possesses fairly high heat resistance. The sole plates of some cloth...
147. ...he magnetic flux passes through both the primary and secondary windings. With a voltage source connected to the primary winding and a load connected to the secondary winding, the transformer currents **flow** in the indicated directions and the core magnetomotive force cancels to zero. According to Faraday's law, since the same magnetic flux passes through both the primary and secondary windings in an ide...
148. ...motive force across two points of an electrically conducting material when there is a temperature difference between those two points. Under open-circuit conditions where there is no internal current **flow**, the gradient of voltage (formula_1) is directly proportional to the gradient in temperature (formula_2): where formula_4 is a temperature-dependent material property known as the Seebeck coefficient...
149. ...efit of operation without a continuous source of electricity, standing pilots are still used in some appliances. The exception is later model instantaneous (aka "tankless") water heaters that use the **flow** of water to generate the current required to ignite the gas burner; these designs also use a thermocouple as a safety cut-off device in the event the gas fails to ignite, or if the flame is extinguis...
150. ...a vacuum gauge over the range of approximately 0.001 to 1 torr absolute pressure. In this pressure range, the mean free path of the gas is comparable to the dimensions of the vacuum chamber, and the **flow** regime is neither purely viscous nor purely molecular. In this configuration, the thermocouple junction is attached to the centre of a short heating wire, which is usually energised by a constant cur...
151. ...g gas, which depends on the pressure of the gas. The potential difference measured by a thermocouple is proportional to the square of pressure over the low- to medium-vacuum range. At higher (viscous **flow**) and lower (molecular flow) pressures, the thermal conductivity of air or any other gas is essentially independent of pressure. The thermocouple was first used as a vacuum gauge by Voege in 1906. The...
152. ...pressure of the gas. The potential difference measured by a thermocouple is proportional to the square of pressure over the low- to medium-vacuum range. At higher (viscous flow) and lower (molecular **flow**) pressures, the thermal conductivity of air or any other gas is essentially independent of pressure. The thermocouple was first used as a vacuum gauge by Voege in 1906. The mathematical model for the...
153. ...is electrical heating may introduce a significant error (an observer effect) if a correction is not made. Alternatively, this effect itself can be exploited. It can, for example, make a sensitive air-**flow** device employed in a sailplane rate-of-climb instrument, the electronic variometer, or serve as a timer for a relay as was formerly done in telephone exchanges. The electrical power input to the ther...
154. ...in stirred oil. If the temperature of the environment is known beforehand, then a thermistor may be used to measure the value of the dissipation constant. For example, the thermistor may be used as a **flow**-rate sensor, since the dissipation constant increases with the rate of flow of a fluid past the thermistor. The power dissipated in a thermistor is typically maintained at a very low level to ensure...
155. ...hen a thermistor may be used to measure the value of the dissipation constant. For example, the thermistor may be used as a flow-rate sensor, since the dissipation constant increases with the rate of **flow** of a fluid past the thermistor. The power dissipated in a thermistor is typically maintained at a very low level to ensure insignificant temperature measurement error due to self-heating. However, so...
156. ...or well above the ambient temperature, so the sensor then detects even subtle changes in the thermal conductivity of the environment. Some of these applications include liquid-level detection, liquid-**flow** measurement and air-flow measurement. The first NTC thermistor was discovered in 1833 by Michael Faraday, who reported on the semiconducting behavior of silver sulfide. Faraday noticed that the resis...
157. ...temperature, so the sensor then detects even subtle changes in the thermal conductivity of the environment. Some of these applications include liquid-level detection, liquid-flow measurement and air-**flow** measurement. The first NTC thermistor was discovered in 1833 by Michael Faraday, who reported on the semiconducting behavior of silver sulfide. Faraday noticed that the resistance of silver sulfide d...
158. ...in an electrical circuit, the work done to move electrons or other charge carriers is equal to "electrical pressure difference" multiplied by the quantity of electrical charges moved. In relation to "**flow**", the larger the "pressure difference" between two points (potential difference or water pressure difference), the greater the flow between them (electric current or water flow). (See "electric power...
159. ...iplied by the quantity of electrical charges moved. In relation to "flow", the larger the "pressure difference" between two points (potential difference or water pressure difference), the greater the **flow** between them (electric current or water flow). (See "electric power".) Specifying a voltage measurement requires explicit or implicit specification of the points across which the voltage is measured....
160. ...moved. In relation to "flow", the larger the "pressure difference" between two points (potential difference or water pressure difference), the greater the flow between them (electric current or water **flow**). (See "electric power".) Specifying a voltage measurement requires explicit or implicit specification of the points across which the voltage is measured. When using a voltmeter to measure voltage, o...
161. ...ed by an ideal conductor without resistance and not within a changing magnetic field have a voltage of zero. Any two points with the same potential may be connected by a conductor and no current will **flow** between them. The voltage between "A" and "C" is the sum of the voltage between "A" and "B" and the voltage between "B" and "C". The various voltages in a circuit can be computed using Kirchhoff's ci...
162. ...y, several experiments have shown that the method is independent of device design, material, measurement setup, etc., and no correction terms are required in a practical implementation. In the "water-**flow** analogy", sometimes used to explain electric circuits by comparing them with water-filled pipes, voltage (difference in electric potential) is likened to difference in water pressure, while current i...
163. ...in water pressure, while current is proportional to the amount of water flowing. A resistor would be a reduced diameter somewhere in the piping or something akin to a radiator offering resistance to **flow**. The relationship between voltage and current is defined (in ohmic devices like resistors) by Ohm's law. Ohm's Law is analogous to the Hagen–Poiseuille equation, as both are linear models relating fl...
164. ...st instruments used in electrical and electronics work. Any measurement that can be converted to a voltage can be displayed on a meter that is suitably calibrated; for example, pressure, temperature, **flow** or level in a chemical process plant. General-purpose analog voltmeters may have an accuracy of a few percent of full scale and are used with voltages from a fraction of a volt to several thousand vo...
165. ...be measured to high precision. Very small changes in disrupt the balance and are readily detected. Alternatively, if , , and are known, but is not adjustable, the voltage difference across or current **flow** through the meter can be used to calculate the value of , using Kirchhoff's circuit laws. This setup is frequently used in strain gauge and resistance thermometer measurements, as it is usually faste...
166. ...ield at any point is parallel to the direction of nearby field lines, and the local density of field lines can be made proportional to its strength. Magnetic field lines are like streamlines in fluid **flow**, in that they represent a continuous distribution, and a different resolution would show more or fewer lines. An advantage of using magnetic field lines as a representation is that many laws of magne...
167. ...similar to that produced by a uniform permanent magnet, with its strength and polarity determined by the current flowing through the coil. The magnetic field generated by a steady current (a constant **flow** of electric charges, in which charge neither accumulates nor is depleted at any point) is described by the "Biot–Savart law": formula_9 where the integral sums over the wire length where vector is th...
168. ...where it is accelerated by an oscillating electric and magnetic field, also known as the ponderomotive force. This separation of the ionization and acceleration stages allows throttling of propellant **flow**, which then changes the thrust magnitude and specific impulse values. A helicon double layer thruster is a type of plasma thruster that ejects high velocity ionized gas to provide thrust. In this des...
169. ...thruster (MET). In the discharge chamber, microwave (MW) energy flows into the center containing a high level of ions (I), causing neutral species in the gaseous propellant to ionize. Excited species **flow** out (FES) through the low ion region (II) to a neutral region (III) where the ions complete their recombination, replaced with the flow of neutral species (FNS) towards the center. Meanwhile, energy...
170. ...al species in the gaseous propellant to ionize. Excited species flow out (FES) through the low ion region (II) to a neutral region (III) where the ions complete their recombination, replaced with the **flow** of neutral species (FNS) towards the center. Meanwhile, energy is lost to the chamber walls through heat conduction and convection (HCC), along with radiation (Rad). The remaining energy absorbed int...
171. ...s of weeks to years. The lifetime of electrostatic ion thrusters is limited by several processes. In electrostatic gridded designs, charge-exchange ions produced by the beam ions with the neutral gas **flow** can be accelerated towards the negatively biased accelerator grid and cause grid erosion. End-of-life is reached when either the grid structure fails or the holes in the grid become large enough that...
172. ...moving charged particles; an artificial magnetosphere model analogous to the Earth's magnetosphere, MHD and kinematic mathematical models for interaction of an artificial magnetosphere with a plasma **flow** characterized by mass and number density and velocity, and performance measures; such as, force achieved, energy requirements and the mass of the magnetic sail system. An ion or electron with charge...
173. ...roduct of their charge and velocity component formula_36 perpendicular to the magnetic field flux density , in SI units as teslas (T). A magnetic sail design introduces a magnetic field into a plasma **flow** which under certain conditions deflects the electrons and ions from their original trajectory with the particle's momentum transferred to the sail and hence the spacecraft thereby creating thrust. An...
174. ...ic-only sail force from equation is formula_199=3x10 N and thus M2P2 reported a thrust gain of 4x10 as compared with a magnetic field only design. Since M2P2 injects ionized gas at a formula_342 mass **flow** rate (kg/s) it is viewed as a propellant and therefore has a "specific impulse (s)" formula_343 where formula_344 is the acceleration of Earth's gravity. Winglee stated formula_342=0.5 kg/day and the...
175. ...mula_371 the magnetic pressure for magnetic field flux density formula_372 and formula_373 vacuum permeability. In the context of the MPS, formula_374 determines the propensity of the injected plasma **flow** to stretch the magnetic field while formula_375 specifies the relative energy of the injected plasma. In 2005 Funaki and others published numerical analysis showing formula_376=1.88 for formula_374=0...
176. ...l region was formula_376=1.8. If formula_383 then the Injection of a high-velocity, high-density plasma into a magnetosphere as proposed in M2P2 freezes the motion of a magnetic field into the plasma **flow** and was believed to inflate the magnetosphere. However experiments and numerical analysis determined that the solar wind cannot compress the magnetosphere and momentum transfer to the spacecraft is l...
177. ...ransmission networks are interconnected into regional, national, and even continent-wide networks to reduce the risk of such a failure by providing multiple redundant, alternative routes for power to **flow** should such shutdowns occur. Transmission companies determine the maximum reliable capacity of each line (ordinarily less than its physical or thermal limit) to ensure that spare capacity is availabl...
178. ...erican wire gauge) to 750 mm (1,590,000 circular mils area), with varying resistance and current-carrying capacity. For large conductors (more than a few centimetres in diameter), much of the current **flow** is concentrated near the surface due to the skin effect. The center of the conductor carries little current but contributes weight and cost. Thus, multiple parallel cables (called bundle conductors)...
179. ...stant sources. Because of the economic benefits of load sharing, wide area transmission grids may span countries and even continents. Interconnections between producers and consumers enables power to **flow** even if some links are inoperative. The slowly varying portion of demand is known as the "base load" and is generally served by large facilities with constant operating costs, termed firm power. Such...
180. ...ctive distance for DC transmission was . For AC it was , though US transmission lines are substantially shorter. In any AC line, conductor inductance and capacitance can be significant. Currents that **flow** solely in reaction to these properties, (which together with the resistance define the impedance) constitute reactive power flow, which transmits no power to the load. These reactive currents, howeve...
181. ...conductor inductance and capacitance can be significant. Currents that flow solely in reaction to these properties, (which together with the resistance define the impedance) constitute reactive power **flow**, which transmits no power to the load. These reactive currents, however, cause extra heating losses. The ratio of real power transmitted to the load to apparent power (the product of a circuit's volt...
182. ...tor banks, reactors and other components (such as phase-shifters; static VAR compensators; and flexible AC transmission systems, FACTS) throughout the system help to compensate for the reactive power **flow**, reduce the losses in power transmission and stabilize system voltages. These measures are collectively called 'reactive support'. Current flowing through transmission lines induces a magnetic field...
183. ...by an AC line increases as the phase angle between source end voltage and destination ends increases, but too large a phase angle allows the systems at either end to fall out of step. Since the power **flow** in a DC link is controlled independently of the phases of the AC networks that it connects, this phase angle limit does not exist, and a DC link is always able to transfer its full rated power. A DC...
184. ...networks that it connects, this phase angle limit does not exist, and a DC link is always able to transfer its full rated power. A DC link therefore stabilizes the AC grid at either end, since power **flow** and phase angle can then be controlled independently. As an example, to adjust the flow of AC power on a hypothetical line between Seattle and Boston would require adjustment of the relative phase of...
185. ...ys able to transfer its full rated power. A DC link therefore stabilizes the AC grid at either end, since power flow and phase angle can then be controlled independently. As an example, to adjust the **flow** of AC power on a hypothetical line between Seattle and Boston would require adjustment of the relative phase of the two regional electrical grids. This is an everyday occurrence in AC systems, but on...
186. ...ators require reliable communications to manage the grid and associated generation and distribution facilities. Fault-sensing protective relays at each end of the line must communicate to monitor the **flow** of power so that faulted conductors or equipment can be quickly de-energized and the balance of the system restored. Protection of the transmission line from short circuits and other faults is usuall...
187. ...ntended in reverse. Maintaining the identity of phases is required if two sources could be connected at the same time. A direct connection between two different phases is a short circuit and leads to **flow** of unbalanced current. As compared to a single-phase AC power supply that uses two current-carrying conductors (phase and neutral), a three-phase supply with no neutral and the same phase-to-ground v...
188. ...n connecting a generator to an energized distribution network or when connecting two transformers in parallel. Otherwise, the interconnection will behave like a short circuit, and excess current will **flow**. The direction of rotation of three-phase motors can be reversed by interchanging any two phases; it may be impractical or harmful to test a machine by momentarily energizing the motor to observe its...
189. ...el through the body close to the surface, and thus do not penetrate to vital organs or nerves, due to an electromagnetic phenomenon called "skin effect". This theory is false. RF current does tend to **flow** on the surface of conductors due to skin effect, but the depth to which it penetrates, called "skin depth", depends on the resistivity and permeability of the material as well as the frequency. Altho...
190. ...major engineering problem was the failure of the wall of the primary-coal combustion chamber due to abrasion. In microfluidics, MHD is studied as a fluid pump for producing a continuous, nonpulsating **flow** in a complex microchannel design. MHD can be implemented in the continuous casting process of metals to suppress instabilities and control the flow. Industrial MHD problems can be modeled using the o...
191. ...fluid pump for producing a continuous, nonpulsating flow in a complex microchannel design. MHD can be implemented in the continuous casting process of metals to suppress instabilities and control the **flow**. Industrial MHD problems can be modeled using the open-source software EOF-Library. Two simulation examples are 3D MHD with a free surface for electromagnetic levitation melting, and liquid metal sti...
192. ...put electrode. As the distance between the two electrodes varies, the capacitance also varies and electric charge is forced in and out of the capacitor. The alternating current signal produced by the **flow** of this charge is amplified and used as an analogue for the DC voltage applied to the capacitor. The DC input resistance of the electrometer is determined solely by the leakage resistance of the capa...
193. ...it is convenient for the operator. Valve electrometers use a specialized vacuum tube (thermionic valve) with a very high gain (transconductance) and input resistance. The input current is allowed to **flow** into the high impedance grid, and the voltage so generated is vastly amplified in the anode (plate) circuit. Valves designed for electrometer use have leakage currents as low as a few femtoamperes (1...
194. ...A galvanometer is an electromechanical measuring instrument for electric current. Early galvanometers were uncalibrated, but improved versions, called ammeters, were calibrated and could measure the **flow** of current more precisely. Galvanometers work by deflecting a pointer in response to an electric current flowing through a coil in a constant magnetic field. The mechanism is also used as an actuator...
195. ...ide the analytical depth and insight of a logic analyzer. Ohmmeter An ohmmeter is an electrical instrument that measures electrical resistance (the opposition offered by a circuit or component to the **flow** of electric current). Multimeters also function as ohmmeters when in resistance-measuring mode. An ohmmeter applies current to the circuit or component whose resistance is to be measured. It then mea...
196. ...play is subjectively more difficult to read. This continuous tracking feature becomes important when testing capacitors or coils, for example. A properly functioning capacitor should allow current to **flow** when voltage is applied, then the current slowly decreases to zero and this "signature" is easy to see on an analog multimeter but not on a digital multimeter. This is similar when testing a coil, ex...
197. ...power units are commonly used to improve the efficiency of electrical system. The use of auxiliary power units for range extended electric automobiles has been shown to improve the control of energy **flow** and distribution throughout the system, improving its overall efficiency. For closed systems with extreme power consumption such as tankers and other vessels at sea, the use and quality of auxiliary...
198. ...4 is infinitesimal relative to the other, now finite terms, so we can drop it. That leads to formula_100 Reversing the sign applied to the square root has the effect of reversing the direction of the **flow** of current. The analysis of lossless lines provides an accurate approximation for real transmission lines that simplifies the mathematics considered in modeling transmission lines. A lossless line is...
199. ..., a dielectric (or dielectric medium) is an electrical insulator that can be polarised by an applied electric field. When a dielectric material is placed in an electric field, electric charges do not **flow** through the material as they do in an electrical conductor, because they have no loosely bound, or free, electrons that may drift through the material, but instead they shift, only slightly, from the...
200. ...ctrically conductive path and a disruptive discharge through the material. In a solid material, a breakdown event severely degrades, or even destroys, its insulating capability. Electric current is a **flow** of electrically charged particles in a material caused by an electric field. The mobile charged particles responsible for electric current are called charge carriers. In different substances differen...
201. ...is often an unwanted occurrence, a failure of insulating material causing a short circuit, resulting in a catastrophic failure of the equipment. The sudden drop in resistance causes a high current to **flow** through the material, and the sudden extreme Joule heating may cause the material or other parts of the circuit to melt or vaporize explosively. However, breakdown itself is reversible. If the curren...
202. ...c current propagating outward from the burst location confined to the source region (the region over which the gamma photons are attenuated). The Earth's magnetic field exerts a force on the electron **flow** at a right angle to both the field and the particles' original vector, which deflects the electrons and leads to synchrotron radiation. Because the outward traveling gamma pulse is propagating at the...
203. ...nic devices, such as wristwatches and cell phones, would most likely withstand an EMP. Though electric potential difference can accumulate in electrical conductors after an EMP, it will generally not **flow** out into human or animal bodies, and thus contact is safe. EMPs of sufficient magnitude and length have the potential to affect the human body. Possible side effects include cellular mutations, nervo...
204. ...equency of the electromagnetic energy, as well as the inverse square of distance to the source. The eyes and testes are particularly susceptible to radio frequency heating due to the paucity of blood **flow** in these areas that could otherwise dissipate the heat buildup. Radio frequency (RF) energy at power density levels of 1–10 mW/cm or higher can cause measurable heating of tissues. Typical RF energy...
205. ...where formula_19 is the total power transmitted by the beam. For a circle of radius , the fraction of power transmitted through the circle is formula_20 Similarly, about 90% of the beam's power will **flow** through a circle of radius , 95% through a circle of radius , and 99% through a circle of radius . The peak intensity at an axial distance from the beam waist can be calculated as the limit of the en...
206. ...If internal insulation fails, dangerous voltages may appear on the exposed conductive parts. Connecting exposed conductive parts to a "ground" wire which provides a low-impedance path for current to **flow** back to the incoming neutral (which is also connected to ground, close to the point of entry) will allow circuit breakers (or RCDs) to interrupt power supply in the event of a fault. In electric powe...
207. ...irectly connected to an earth grounding electrode system. Alternatively, some amount of electrical impedance may be connected between the distribution system and ground, to limit the current that can **flow** to earth. The impedance may be a resistor, or an inductor (coil). In a high-impedance grounded system, the fault current is limited to a few amperes (exact values depend on the voltage class of the s...
208. ...pedance grounded system, the fault current is limited to a few amperes (exact values depend on the voltage class of the system); a low-impedance grounded system will permit several hundred amperes to **flow** on a fault. A large solidly grounded distribution system may have tens of thousands of amperes of ground fault current. In a polyphase AC system, the instantaneous vector sum of the phases is zero. T...
209. ...eases the closer one gets to the ground terminal at the base of the antenna, so the radial ground system can be thought of as providing a higher conductivity medium, copper, for the ground current to **flow** through, in the parts of the ground carrying high current density, to reduce power losses. A standard ground system widely used for mast radiator broadcasting antennas operating in the MF and LF band...
210. ...a central substation, spread out over a distribution system, or built into power-consuming equipment. In a linear circuit, consisting of combinations of resistors, inductors, and capacitors, current **flow** has a sinusoidal response to the sinusoidal line voltage. A linear load does not change the shape of the input waveform but may change the relative timing (phase) between voltage and current, due to...
211. ...equal to the cosine of the angle, formula_8: Since the units are consistent, the power factor is by definition a dimensionless number between -1 and 1. When the power factor is equal to 0, the energy **flow** is entirely reactive, and stored energy in the load returns to the source on each cycle. When the power factor is 1, referred to as the "unity" power factor, all the energy supplied by the source is...
212. ...fect of motor loads, capacitors can be locally connected. These capacitors help to generate reactive power to meet the demand of the inductive loads. This will keep that reactive power from having to **flow** from the utility generator to the load. In the electricity industry, inductors are said to consume reactive power, and capacitors are said to supply it, even though reactive power is just energy movi...
213. ...can be made with a moving coil meter of the electrodynamic type, carrying two perpendicular coils on the moving part of the instrument. The field of the instrument is energized by the circuit current **flow**. The two moving coils, A and B, are connected in parallel with the circuit load. One coil, A, will be connected through a resistor and the second coil, B, through an inductor, so that the current in...
214. ...ms in all electrical equipment connected to that power source, including the UPS itself. It will also cause more power to be lost in the wiring supplying power to the UPS due to the spikes in current **flow**. This level of "noise" is measured as a percentage of "total harmonic distortion of the current" (THD). Classic UPS rectifiers have a THD level of around 25%–30%. To reduce voltage distortion, this r...
215. ...and monitored both individually and collectively. Battery strings may also be wired as series-parallel, for example, two sets of 20 cells. In such a situation it is also necessary to monitor current **flow** between parallel strings, as current may circulate between the strings to balance out the effects of weak cells, dead cells with high resistance, or shorted cells. For example, stronger strings can d...
216. ...nd when the old batteries are exhausted the new batteries still have charge available. The newer cells may continue to discharge through the rest of the string, but due to the low voltage this energy **flow** may not be useful and may be wasted in the old cells as resistance heating. For cells that are supposed to operate within a specific discharge window, new cells with more capacity may cause the old c...
217. ...to near the fully charged state, but before the new cells with more capacity have fully recharged. The charge controller detects the high voltage of a nearly fully charged string and reduces current **flow**. The new cells with more capacity now charge very slowly, so slowly that the chemicals may begin to crystallize before reaching the fully charged state, reducing new cell capacity over several charge...
218. ...r example, the skin depth of a copper conductor is approximately 8.57 mm at 60 Hz, so high-current conductors are usually hollow to reduce their mass and cost. This tendency of alternating current to **flow** predominantly in the periphery of conductors reduces the effective cross-section of the conductor. This increases the effective AC resistance of the conductor since resistance is inversely proportion...
219. ...e an inner conductor to carry a return current, waveguides cannot deliver energy by means of an electric current, but rather by means of a "guided" electromagnetic field. Although surface currents do **flow** on the inner walls of the waveguides, those surface currents do not carry power. Power is carried by the guided electromagnetic fields. The surface currents are set up by the guided electromagnetic f...
220. ...ge the strength of the dipoles (in other words, a change in the spontaneous polarization). The change in the spontaneous polarization results in a change in the surface charge. This can cause current **flow** in the case of a ferroelectric capacitor even without the presence of an external voltage across the capacitor. Two stimuli that will change the lattice dimensions of a material are force and tempera...
221. ...t consists of stripes of aluminum or gold placed on a thin film of permalloy (a ferromagnetic material exhibiting the AMR effect) inclined at an angle of 45°. This structure forces the current not to **flow** along the “easy axes” of thin film, but at an angle of 45°. The dependence of resistance now has a permanent offset which is linear around the null point. Because of its appearance, this sensor type...
222. ...is one of Marvel's most popular villains, he has been featured in many forms of merchandise, including various action figures and trading cards: Direct current Direct current (DC) is one-directional **flow** of electric charge. An electrochemical cell is a prime example of DC power. Direct current may flow through a conductor such as a wire, but can also flow through semiconductors, insulators, or even t...
223. ...ing various action figures and trading cards: Direct current Direct current (DC) is one-directional flow of electric charge. An electrochemical cell is a prime example of DC power. Direct current may **flow** through a conductor such as a wire, but can also flow through semiconductors, insulators, or even through a vacuum as in electron or ion beams. The electric current flows in a constant direction, dis...
224. ...urrent Direct current (DC) is one-directional flow of electric charge. An electrochemical cell is a prime example of DC power. Direct current may flow through a conductor such as a wire, but can also **flow** through semiconductors, insulators, or even through a vacuum as in electron or ion beams. The electric current flows in a constant direction, distinguishing it from alternating current (AC). A term f...
225. ...rect current may be converted from an alternating current supply by use of a rectifier, which contains electronic elements (usually) or electromechanical elements (historically) that allow current to **flow** only in one direction. Direct current may be converted into alternating current via an inverter. Direct current has many uses, from the charging of batteries to large power supplies for electronic sy...
226. ...ve to negative. When French instrument maker Hippolyte Pixii built the first dynamo electric generator in 1832, he found that as the magnet used passed the loops of wire each half turn, it caused the **flow** of electricity to reverse, generating an alternating current. At Ampère's suggestion, Pixii later added a commutator, a type of "switch" where contacts on the shaft work with "brush" contacts to prod...
227. ...ower source (e.g. a battery, capacitor, etc.) has a positive and negative terminal, and likewise, the load also has a positive and negative terminal. To complete the circuit, positive charges need to **flow** from the power source to the load. The charges will then return to the negative terminal of the load, which will then flow back to the negative terminal of the battery, completing the circuit. If eit...
228. ...ive and negative terminal. To complete the circuit, positive charges need to flow from the power source to the load. The charges will then return to the negative terminal of the load, which will then **flow** back to the negative terminal of the battery, completing the circuit. If either the positive or negative terminal is disconnected, the circuit will not be complete and the charges will not flow. In s...
229. ...then flow back to the negative terminal of the battery, completing the circuit. If either the positive or negative terminal is disconnected, the circuit will not be complete and the charges will not **flow**. In some DC circuit applications, polarity does not matter, which means you can connect positive and negative backwards and the circuit will still be complete and the load will still function normall...
230. ...escribe Ohm's law. Water pressure, measured by pascals (or PSI), is the analog of voltage because establishing a water pressure difference between two points along a (horizontal) pipe causes water to **flow**. The water volume flow rate, as in liters per second, is the analog of current, as in coulombs per second. Finally, flow restrictors—such as apertures placed in pipes between points where the water p...
231. ...r pressure, measured by pascals (or PSI), is the analog of voltage because establishing a water pressure difference between two points along a (horizontal) pipe causes water to flow. The water volume **flow** rate, as in liters per second, is the analog of current, as in coulombs per second. Finally, flow restrictors—such as apertures placed in pipes between points where the water pressure is measured—are...
232. ...essure difference between two points along a (horizontal) pipe causes water to flow. The water volume flow rate, as in liters per second, is the analog of current, as in coulombs per second. Finally, **flow** restrictors—such as apertures placed in pipes between points where the water pressure is measured—are the analog of resistors. We say that the rate of water flow through an aperture restrictor is pro...
233. ..., as in coulombs per second. Finally, flow restrictors—such as apertures placed in pipes between points where the water pressure is measured—are the analog of resistors. We say that the rate of water **flow** through an aperture restrictor is proportional to the difference in water pressure across the restrictor. Similarly, the rate of flow of electrical charge, that is, the electric current, through an e...
234. ...asured—are the analog of resistors. We say that the rate of water flow through an aperture restrictor is proportional to the difference in water pressure across the restrictor. Similarly, the rate of **flow** of electrical charge, that is, the electric current, through an electrical resistor is proportional to the difference in voltage measured across the resistor. More generally, the hydraulic head may b...
235. ...ltage measured across the resistor. More generally, the hydraulic head may be taken as the analog of voltage, and Ohm's law is then analogous to Darcy's law which relates hydraulic head to the volume **flow** rate via the hydraulic conductivity. Flow and pressure variables can be calculated in fluid flow network with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. The method can be applied to both steady and transi...
236. ...enerally, the hydraulic head may be taken as the analog of voltage, and Ohm's law is then analogous to Darcy's law which relates hydraulic head to the volume flow rate via the hydraulic conductivity. **Flow** and pressure variables can be calculated in fluid flow network with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. The method can be applied to both steady and transient flow situations. In the linear laminar...
237. ...of voltage, and Ohm's law is then analogous to Darcy's law which relates hydraulic head to the volume flow rate via the hydraulic conductivity. Flow and pressure variables can be calculated in fluid **flow** network with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. The method can be applied to both steady and transient flow situations. In the linear laminar flow region, Poiseuille's law describes the hydraulic...
238. ...e via the hydraulic conductivity. Flow and pressure variables can be calculated in fluid flow network with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. The method can be applied to both steady and transient **flow** situations. In the linear laminar flow region, Poiseuille's law describes the hydraulic resistance of a pipe, but in the turbulent flow region the pressure–flow relations become nonlinear. The hydrau...
239. ...and pressure variables can be calculated in fluid flow network with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. The method can be applied to both steady and transient flow situations. In the linear laminar **flow** region, Poiseuille's law describes the hydraulic resistance of a pipe, but in the turbulent flow region the pressure–flow relations become nonlinear. The hydraulic analogy to Ohm's law has been used,...
240. ...analogy. The method can be applied to both steady and transient flow situations. In the linear laminar flow region, Poiseuille's law describes the hydraulic resistance of a pipe, but in the turbulent **flow** region the pressure–flow relations become nonlinear. The hydraulic analogy to Ohm's law has been used, for example, to approximate blood flow through the circulatory system. In circuit analysis, thre...
241. ...e applied to both steady and transient flow situations. In the linear laminar flow region, Poiseuille's law describes the hydraulic resistance of a pipe, but in the turbulent flow region the pressure–**flow** relations become nonlinear. The hydraulic analogy to Ohm's law has been used, for example, to approximate blood flow through the circulatory system. In circuit analysis, three equivalent expressions...
242. ...the hydraulic resistance of a pipe, but in the turbulent flow region the pressure–flow relations become nonlinear. The hydraulic analogy to Ohm's law has been used, for example, to approximate blood **flow** through the circulatory system. In circuit analysis, three equivalent expressions of Ohm's law are used interchangeably: formula_11 Each equation is quoted by some sources as the defining relationshi...
243. ...ere exists a thermal correction to the sample resistance even at negligibly small current. The magnitude of the correction could be comparable with the sample resistance. Ohm's principle predicts the **flow** of electrical charge (i.e. current) in electrical conductors when subjected to the influence of voltage differences; Jean-Baptiste-Joseph Fourier's principle predicts the flow of heat in heat conduct...
244. ...principle predicts the flow of electrical charge (i.e. current) in electrical conductors when subjected to the influence of voltage differences; Jean-Baptiste-Joseph Fourier's principle predicts the **flow** of heat in heat conductors when subjected to the influence of temperature differences. The same equation describes both phenomena, the equation's variables taking on different meanings in the two cas...
245. ...equation's variables taking on different meanings in the two cases. Specifically, solving a heat conduction (Fourier) problem with "temperature" (the driving "force") and "flux of heat" (the rate of **flow** of the driven "quantity", i.e. heat energy) variables also solves an analogous electrical conduction (Ohm) problem having "electric potential" (the driving "force") and "electric current" (the rate o...
246. ...f the driven "quantity", i.e. heat energy) variables also solves an analogous electrical conduction (Ohm) problem having "electric potential" (the driving "force") and "electric current" (the rate of **flow** of the driven "quantity", i.e. charge) variables. The basis of Fourier's work was his clear conception and definition of thermal conductivity. He assumed that, all else being the same, the flux of he...
247. ...n is made in the statement of Ohm's law: other things being alike, the strength of the current at each point is proportional to the gradient of electric potential. The accuracy of the assumption that **flow** is proportional to the gradient is more readily tested, using modern measurement methods, for the electrical case than for the heat case. Ohm's law, in the form above, is an extremely useful equation...
248. ...ve no resistivity, but a real metal has crystallographic defects, impurities, multiple isotopes, and thermal motion of the atoms. Electrons scatter from all of these, resulting in resistance to their **flow**. The more complex generalized forms of Ohm's law are important to condensed matter physics, which studies the properties of matter and, in particular, its electronic structure. In broad terms, they f...
249. ...s from the atmosphere. Proton auroras are usually observed at lower latitudes. Bright auroras are generally associated with Birkeland currents (Schield et al., 1969; Zmuda and Armstrong, 1973), which **flow** down into the ionosphere on one side of the pole and out on the other. In between, some of the current connects directly through the ionospheric E layer (125 km); the rest ("region 2") detours, leavi...
250. ...tion, the currents are the direct result of electron acceleration into the atmosphere by wave/particle interactions. Ionospheric resistance has a complex nature, and leads to a secondary Hall current **flow**. By a strange twist of physics, the magnetic disturbance on the ground due to the main current almost cancels out, so most of the observed effect of auroras is due to a secondary current, the auroral...
251. ...tion of auroral arcs via the feedback instability under high ionospheric resistance conditions, observed at night time and in dark Winter hemisphere. Earth is constantly immersed in the solar wind, a **flow** of magnetized hot plasma (a gas of free electrons and positive ions) emitted by the Sun in all directions, a result of the two-million-degree temperature of the Sun's outermost layer, the corona. The...
252. ...rate of relative motion, b) the strength of the magnetic field, c) the number of conductors ganged together and d) the distance between the conductor and the magnetic field, while the "direction" of **flow** is dependent upon the direction of relative motion. Dynamos make use of this basic process ("the dynamo effect"), any and all conductors, solid or otherwise are so affected, including plasmas and oth...
253. ...he solar wind and the magnetosphere, being two electrically conducting fluids in relative motion, should be able in principle to generate electric currents by dynamo action and impart energy from the **flow** of the solar wind. However, this process is hampered by the fact that plasmas conduct readily along magnetic field lines, but less readily perpendicular to them. Energy is more effectively transferre...
254. ...ar cycle when coronal mass ejections increase the intensity of the solar wind. Earth's magnetosphere is shaped by the impact of the solar wind on Earth's magnetic field. This forms an obstacle to the **flow**, diverting it, at an average distance of about 70,000 km (11 Earth radii or Re), producing a bow shock 12,000 km to 15,000 km (1.9 to 2.4 Re) further upstream. The width of the magnetosphere abreast...
255. ...), and on the night side a long "magnetotail" of stretched field lines extends to great distances (> 200 Re). The high latitude magnetosphere is filled with plasma as the solar wind passes Earth. The **flow** of plasma into the magnetosphere increases with additional turbulence, density, and speed in the solar wind. This flow is favoured by a southward component of the IMF, which can then directly connect...
256. ...latitude magnetosphere is filled with plasma as the solar wind passes Earth. The flow of plasma into the magnetosphere increases with additional turbulence, density, and speed in the solar wind. This **flow** is favoured by a southward component of the IMF, which can then directly connect to the high latitude geomagnetic field lines. The flow pattern of magnetospheric plasma is mainly from the magnetotail...
257. ...ditional turbulence, density, and speed in the solar wind. This flow is favoured by a southward component of the IMF, which can then directly connect to the high latitude geomagnetic field lines. The **flow** pattern of magnetospheric plasma is mainly from the magnetotail toward Earth, around Earth and back into the solar wind through the magnetopause on the day-side. In addition to moving perpendicular t...
258. ...Jupiter and its moon Io. Poynting vector In physics, the Poynting vector (or Umov–Poynting vector) represents the directional energy flux (the energy transfer per unit area, per unit time) or "power **flow**" of an electromagnetic field. The SI unit of the Poynting vector is the watt per square metre (W/m); kg/s in base SI units. It is named after its discoverer John Henry Poynting who first derived it i...
259. ...tion. The Poynting vector is used throughout electromagnetics in conjunction with Poynting's theorem, the continuity equation expressing conservation of electromagnetic energy, to calculate the power **flow** in electromagnetic fields. In Poynting's original paper and in most textbooks, the Poynting vector formula_1 is defined as the cross product formula_2 where bold letters represent vectors and This ex...
260. ...ll of which are good approximations to real-world coaxial cable in typical situations. The center conductor is held at voltage "V" and draws a current "I" toward the right, so we expect a total power **flow** of "P" = "V" · "I" according to basic laws of electricity. By evaluating the Poynting vector, however, we are able to identify the profile of power flow in terms of the electric and magnetic fields i...
261. ..." toward the right, so we expect a total power flow of "P" = "V" · "I" according to basic laws of electricity. By evaluating the Poynting vector, however, we are able to identify the profile of power **flow** in terms of the electric and magnetic fields inside the coaxial cable. The electric fields are of course zero inside of each conductor, but in between the conductors (formula_5) symmetry dictates tha...
262. ...f free charges and "u" is the electromagnetic energy density for linear, nondispersive materials, given by formula_16 where The first term in the right-hand side represents the electromagnetic energy **flow** into a small volume, while the second term subtracts the work done by the field on free electrical currents, which thereby exits from electromagnetic energy as dissipation, heat, etc. In this definit...
263. ...oided. The Poynting vector and theorem and expression for energy density are universally valid in vacuum and all materials. The above form for the Poynting vector represents the "instantaneous" power **flow** due to "instantaneous" electric and magnetic fields. More commonly, problems in electromagnetics are solved in terms of sinusoidally varying fields at a specified frequency. The results can then be a...
264. ...field whose instantaneous amplitude follows the real part of where is the (radian) frequency of the sinusoidal wave being considered. In the time domain, it will be seen that the instantaneous power **flow** will be fluctuating at a frequency of 2"ω". But what is normally of interest is the "average" power flow in which those fluctuations are not considered. In the math below, this is accomplished by int...
265. ...soidal wave being considered. In the time domain, it will be seen that the instantaneous power flow will be fluctuating at a frequency of 2"ω". But what is normally of interest is the "average" power **flow** in which those fluctuations are not considered. In the math below, this is accomplished by integrating over a full cycle . The following quantity, still referred to as a "Poynting vector", is express...
266. ...ull cycle . The following quantity, still referred to as a "Poynting vector", is expressed directly in terms of the phasors as: formula_29 where denotes the complex conjugate. The time-averaged power **flow** (according to the instantaneous Poynting vector averaged over a full cycle, for instance) is then given by the "real part" of . The imaginary part is usually ignored, however, it signifies "reactive...
267. ...verage value of zero, so we find: formula_32 According to some conventions, the factor of 1/2 in the above definition may be left out. Multiplication by 1/2 is required to properly describe the power **flow** since the magnitudes of and refer to the "peak" fields of the oscillating quantities. If rather the fields are described in terms of their root mean square (RMS) values (which are each smaller by the...
268. ...lds of the oscillating quantities. If rather the fields are described in terms of their root mean square (RMS) values (which are each smaller by the factor formula_33), then the correct average power **flow** is obtained without multiplication by 1/2. If a conductor has significant resistance, then, near the surface of that conductor, the Poynting vector would be tilted toward and impinge upon the conduct...
269. ...law and the very slow speed of light inside a conductor. The definition and computation of the speed of light in a conductor can be given. Inside the conductor, the Poynting vector represents energy **flow** from the electromagnetic field into the wire, producing resistive Joule heating in the wire. For a derivation that starts with Snell's law see Reitz page 454. The density of the linear momentum of th...
270. ...4 The Poynting vector occurs in Poynting's theorem only through its divergence , that is, it is only required that the surface integral of the Poynting vector around a closed surface describe the net **flow** of electromagnetic energy into or out of the enclosed volume. This means that adding a solenoidal vector field (one with zero divergence) to S will result in another field that satisfies this require...
271. ...an H field (pointing into the page) generated by a permanent magnet. Although there are only static electric and magnetic fields, the calculation of the Poynting vector produces a clockwise circular **flow** of electromagnetic energy, with no beginning or end. While the circulating energy flow may seem unphysical, its existence is necessary to maintain conservation of angular momentum. The momentum of an...
272. ...e only static electric and magnetic fields, the calculation of the Poynting vector produces a clockwise circular flow of electromagnetic energy, with no beginning or end. While the circulating energy **flow** may seem unphysical, its existence is necessary to maintain conservation of angular momentum. The momentum of an electromagnetic wave in free space is equal to its power divided by "c", the speed of...
273. ...ence is necessary to maintain conservation of angular momentum. The momentum of an electromagnetic wave in free space is equal to its power divided by "c", the speed of light. Therefore, the circular **flow** of electromagnetic energy implies an "angular" momentum. If one were to connect a wire between the two plates of the charged capacitor, then there would be a Lorentz force on that wire while the capa...
274. ...Hall effect is referred to as the quantum anomalous Hall (QAH) effect. There is also a new concept of the quantum spin Hall effect which is an analogue of the quantum Hall effect, where spin currents **flow** instead of charge currents. The quantization of the Hall conductance (formula_2) has the important property of being exceedingly precise. Actual measurements of the Hall conductance have been found t...
275. ...zed cylindrical bar magnet, the net effect of the microscopic bound currents is to make the magnet behave as if there is a macroscopic sheet of electric current flowing around the surface, with local **flow** direction normal to the cylinder axis. Microscopic currents in atoms inside the material are generally canceled by currents in neighboring atoms, so only the surface makes a net contribution; shaving...
276. ...about the nuclei of an atom induced electromagnetically by the application of an applied field. In superconductors the illusion of perfect diamagnetism arises from persistent screening currents which **flow** to oppose the applied field (the Meissner effect); not solely the orbital spin. The discovery of the Meissner effect led to the phenomenological theory of superconductivity by Fritz and Heinz London...
277. ...termediate and long-term fallout than cities and suburban areas. Without additional contamination, the lakes, reservoirs, rivers, and runoff would be gradually less contaminated as water continued to **flow** through its system. Groundwater supplies such as aquifers would however remain unpolluted initially in the event of a nuclear fallout. Over time the groundwater could become contaminated with fallout...
278. ...ints of vertebrae, during sexual intercourse, and during blood circulation. Water jet abrasive cutting of ceramics (e.g., tiles) creates a yellow/orange glow at the point of impact of very high-speed **flow**. "Fractoluminescence" is often used as a synonym for triboluminescence. It is the emission of light from the fracture (rather than rubbing) of a crystal, but fracturing often occurs with rubbing. Dep...
279. ...d double layers, and most of the work to date supports that ion transfer (rather than electron) dominates for liquids as first suggested by Irving Langmuir in 1938. Finally, with liquids there can be **flow**-rate gradients at interfaces, and also viscosity gradients. These can produce electric fields and also polarization of the liquid, a field called electrohydrodynamics. These are analogous to the elec...
280. ...ion is the greatest. This occurs from both the mixture of warmer and colder air masses, as well as differences in moisture concentrations, and it generally happens at the boundaries between them. The **flow** of warm ocean currents past drier land masses, such as the Gulf Stream, partially explains the elevated frequency of lightning in the Southeast United States. Because large bodies of water lack the t...
281. ...ost luminous and noticeable part of the lightning discharge. A large electric charge flows along the plasma channel, from the cloud to the ground, neutralising the positive ground charge as electrons **flow** away from the strike point to the surrounding area. This huge surge of current creates large radial voltage differences along the surface of the ground. Called step potentials, they are responsible f...
282. ...responsible for more injuries and deaths in groups of people or of other animals than the strike itself. Electricity takes every path available to it. Such step potentials will often cause current to **flow** through one leg and out another, electrocuting an unlucky human or animal standing near the point where the lightning strikes. The electric current of the return stroke averages 30 kiloamperes for a...
283. ...s of very tall structures, such as communications antennas. The rate at which the return stroke current travels has been found to be around 100,000 km/s (one-third of the speed of light). The massive **flow** of electric current occurring during the return stroke combined with the rate at which it occurs (measured in microseconds) rapidly superheats the completed leader channel, forming a highly electrica...
284. ...essed in the effective protection of ground-based structures. Rapidly changing currents tend to travel on the surface of a conductor, in what is called the skin effect, unlike direct currents, which "**flow**-through" the entire conductor like water through a hose. Hence, conductors used in the protection of facilities tend to be multi-stranded, with small wires woven together. This increases the total bu...
285. ...nited States an average of 23 people died from lightning per year from 2012 to 2021. Electrical resistance and conductance The electrical resistance of an object is a measure of its opposition to the **flow** of electric current. Its reciprocal quantity is , measuring the ease with which an electric current passes. Electrical resistance shares some conceptual parallels with mechanical friction. The SI uni...
286. ...h a wire (or resistor) is like water flowing through a pipe, and the voltage drop across the wire is like the pressure drop that pushes water through the pipe. Conductance is proportional to how much **flow** occurs for a given pressure, and resistance is proportional to how much pressure is required to achieve a given flow.  The voltage drop (i.e., difference between voltages on one side of the resistor...
287. ...e drop that pushes water through the pipe. Conductance is proportional to how much flow occurs for a given pressure, and resistance is proportional to how much pressure is required to achieve a given **flow**.  The voltage drop (i.e., difference between voltages on one side of the resistor and the other), not the voltage itself, provides the driving force pushing current through a resistor. In hydraulics,...
288. ...ltage itself, provides the driving force pushing current through a resistor. In hydraulics, it is similar: the pressure difference between two sides of a pipe, not the pressure itself, determines the **flow** through it. For example, there may be a large water pressure above the pipe, which tries to push water down through the pipe. But there may be an equally large water pressure below the pipe, which tr...
289. ...short pipe. In the same way, a long, thin copper wire has higher resistance (lower conductance) than a short, thick copper wire. Materials are important as well. A pipe filled with hair restricts the **flow** of water more than a clean pipe of the same shape and size. Similarly, electrons can flow freely and easily through a copper wire, but cannot flow as easily through a steel wire of the same shape and...
290. ...ance) than a short, thick copper wire. Materials are important as well. A pipe filled with hair restricts the flow of water more than a clean pipe of the same shape and size. Similarly, electrons can **flow** freely and easily through a copper wire, but cannot flow as easily through a steel wire of the same shape and size, and they essentially cannot flow at all through an insulator like rubber, regardles...
291. ...rtant as well. A pipe filled with hair restricts the flow of water more than a clean pipe of the same shape and size. Similarly, electrons can flow freely and easily through a copper wire, but cannot **flow** as easily through a steel wire of the same shape and size, and they essentially cannot flow at all through an insulator like rubber, regardless of its shape. The difference between copper, steel, and...
292. ...the same shape and size. Similarly, electrons can flow freely and easily through a copper wire, but cannot flow as easily through a steel wire of the same shape and size, and they essentially cannot **flow** at all through an insulator like rubber, regardless of its shape. The difference between copper, steel, and rubber is related to their microscopic structure and electron configuration, and is quantif...
293. ...alled resistivity. In addition to geometry and material, there are various other factors that influence resistance and conductance, such as temperature; see below. Substances in which electricity can **flow** are called conductors. A piece of conducting material of a particular resistance meant for use in a circuit is called a resistor. Conductors are made of high-conductivity materials such as metals, in...
294. ...provides a good approximation for long thin conductors such as wires. Another situation for which this formula is not exact is with alternating current (AC), because the skin effect inhibits current **flow** near the center of the conductor. For this reason, the "geometrical" cross-section is different from the "effective" cross-section in which current actually flows, so resistance is higher than expect...
295. ...al resistor, the moment when the voltage reaches its maximum, the current also reaches its maximum (current and voltage are oscillating in phase). But for a capacitor or inductor, the maximum current **flow** occurs as the voltage passes through zero and vice versa (current and voltage are oscillating 90° out of phase, see image below). Complex numbers are used to keep track of both the phase and magnitud...
296. ...s that the resistivity itself may depend on frequency (see Drude model, deep-level traps, resonant frequency, Kramers–Kronig relations, etc.) Resistors (and other elements with resistance) oppose the **flow** of electric current; therefore, electrical energy is required to push current through the resistance. This electrical energy is dissipated, heating the resistor in the process. This is called "Joule...
297. ...e uniform across the sample, and the electric field and current density are both parallel and constant everywhere. Many resistors and conductors do in fact have a uniform cross section with a uniform **flow** of electric current, and are made of a single material, so that this is a good model. (See the adjacent diagram.) When this is the case, the resistance of the conductor is directly proportional to it...
298. ...e. ohms multiplied by square metres (for the cross-sectional area) then divided by metres (for the length). Both "resistance" and "resistivity" describe how difficult it is to make electrical current **flow** through a material, but unlike resistance, resistivity is an intrinsic property and does not depend on geometric properties of a material. This means that all pure copper (Cu) wires (which have not b...
299. ...f sand - while passing current through a low-resistivity material is like pushing water through an empty pipe. If the pipes are the same size and shape, the pipe full of sand has higher resistance to **flow**. Resistance, however, is not determined by the presence or absence of sand. It also depends on the length and width of the pipe: short or wide pipes have lower resistance than narrow or long pipes. T...
300. ...verse (reciprocal) of resistivity. Here, it is given by: formula_7 For example, rubber is a material with large and small  — because even a very large electric field in rubber makes almost no current **flow** through it. On the other hand, copper is a material with small and large  — because even a small electric field pulls a lot of current through it. This expression simplifies to the formula given abov...
301. ...onal component, the most general definition of resistivity must be used. It starts from the tensor-vector form of Ohm's law, which relates the electric field inside a material to the electric current **flow**. This equation is completely general, meaning it is valid in all cases, including those mentioned above. However, this definition is the most complicated, so it is only directly used in anisotropic c...
302. ...graphite consists microscopically of a stack of sheets, and current flows very easily through each sheet, but much less easily from one sheet to the adjacent one. In such cases, the current does not **flow** in exactly the same direction as the electric field. Thus, the appropriate equations are generalized to the three-dimensional tensor form: formula_8 where the conductivity and resistivity are rank-2...
303. ...the low energy states are completely filled with a fixed limit on the number of electrons at all times, and the high energy states are empty of electrons at all times. Electric current consists of a **flow** of electrons. In metals there are many electron energy levels near the Fermi level, so there are many electrons available to move. This is what causes the high electronic conductivity of metals. An i...
304. ...d up the nature of the metals' dealings with electrons in his popular science book "One, Two, Three...Infinity" (1947): More technically, the free electron model gives a basic description of electron **flow** in metals. Wood is widely regarded as an extremely good insulator, but its resistivity is sensitively dependent on moisture content, with damp wood being a factor of at least worse insulator than ove...
305. ...s called the Lorenz number. In general, intrinsic semiconductor resistivity decreases with increasing temperature. The electrons are bumped to the conduction energy band by thermal energy, where they **flow** freely, and in doing so leave behind holes in the valence band, which also flow freely. The electric resistance of a typical intrinsic (non doped) semiconductor decreases exponentially with temperatu...
306. ...eases with increasing temperature. The electrons are bumped to the conduction energy band by thermal energy, where they flow freely, and in doing so leave behind holes in the valence band, which also **flow** freely. The electric resistance of a typical intrinsic (non doped) semiconductor decreases exponentially with temperature following an Arrhenius model: formula_57 An even better approximation of the...
307. ...cated than the formula formula_69 above. One example is spreading resistance profiling, where the material is inhomogeneous (different resistivity in different places), and the exact paths of current **flow** are not obvious. In cases like this, the formulas formula_70 must be replaced with formula_71 where and are now vector fields. This equation, along with the continuity equation for and the Poisson's...
308. ...s. (), () at formula_81) where formula_99 is the electron concentration, formula_100 is the probe radius, and formula_101 is its length.  It is obvious that if plasma electrons form an electron wind (**flow**) across the cylindrical probe axis with a velocity formula_102, the expression holds true.  In plasmas produced by gas-discharge arc sources as well as inductively coupled sources, the electron wind...
309. ...res around opposite sides of an iron ring or "torus" (an arrangement similar to a modern toroidal transformer). Based on his understanding of electromagnets, he expected that, when current started to **flow** in one wire, a sort of wave would travel through the ring and cause some electrical effect on the opposite side. He plugged one wire into a galvanometer, and watched it as he connected the other wire...
310. ...lux enclosed by the circuit: formula_2 where formula_3 is the emf and Φ is the magnetic flux. The direction of the electromotive force is given by Lenz's law which states that an induced current will **flow** in the direction that will oppose the change which produced it. This is due to the negative sign in the previous equation. To increase the generated emf, a common approach is to exploit flux linkage...
311. ...ng electrical generators. When a permanent magnet is moved relative to a conductor, or vice versa, an electromotive force is created. If the wire is connected through an electrical load, current will **flow**, and thus electrical energy is generated, converting the mechanical energy of motion to electrical energy. For example, the "drum generator" is based upon the figure to the bottom-right. A different...
312. ...this idea is the Faraday's disc, shown in simplified form on the right. In the Faraday's disc example, the disc is rotated in a uniform magnetic field perpendicular to the disc, causing a current to **flow** in the radial arm due to the Lorentz force. Mechanical work is necessary to drive this current. When the generated current flows through the conducting rim, a magnetic field is generated by this curr...
313. ...ormula_9. Therefore, an electromotive force is set up in the second loop called the induced emf or transformer emf. If the two ends of this loop are connected through an electrical load, current will **flow**. A current clamp is a type of transformer with a split core which can be spread apart and clipped onto a wire or coil to either measure the current in it or, in reverse, to induce a voltage. Unlike c...
314. ...Unlike conventional instruments the clamp does not make electrical contact with the conductor or require it to be disconnected during attachment of the clamp. Faraday's law is used for measuring the **flow** of electrically conductive liquids and slurries. Such instruments are called magnetic flow meters. The induced voltage ε generated in the magnetic field "B" due to a conductive liquid moving at veloc...
315. ...tor or require it to be disconnected during attachment of the clamp. Faraday's law is used for measuring the flow of electrically conductive liquids and slurries. Such instruments are called magnetic **flow** meters. The induced voltage ε generated in the magnetic field "B" due to a conductive liquid moving at velocity "v" is thus given by: where ℓ is the distance between electrodes in the magnetic flow m...
316. ...c flow meters. The induced voltage ε generated in the magnetic field "B" due to a conductive liquid moving at velocity "v" is thus given by: where ℓ is the distance between electrodes in the magnetic **flow** meter. Electrical conductors moving through a steady magnetic field, or stationary conductors within a changing magnetic field, will have circular currents induced within them by induction, called ed...
317. ...rs moving through a steady magnetic field, or stationary conductors within a changing magnetic field, will have circular currents induced within them by induction, called eddy currents. Eddy currents **flow** in closed loops in planes perpendicular to the magnetic field. They have useful applications in eddy current brakes and induction heating systems. However eddy currents induced in the metal magnetic...
318. ...the eddy current loss down to about one percent. While the plates can be separated by insulation, the voltage is so low that the natural rust/oxide coating of the plates is enough to prevent current **flow** across the laminations. This is a rotor approximately 20 mm in diameter from a DC motor used in a Note the laminations of the electromagnet pole pieces, used to limit parasitic inductive losses. In t...
319. ...tor creates an electric field via electromagnetic induction, which creates a potential difference between the generator terminals. Charge separation takes place within the generator because electrons **flow** away from one terminal toward the other, until, in the open-circuit case, an electric field is developed that makes further charge separation impossible. The emf is countered by the electrical voltag...
320. ...the zinc electrode and being reduced there without generating an external current. It is not made of salt but of material able to wick cations and anions (a dissociated salt) into the solutions. The **flow** of positively charged cations along the bridge is equivalent to the same number of negative charges flowing in the opposite direction. If the light bulb is removed (open circuit) the emf between the...
321. ...ially obsolete since it is not as fast as spray etching. In spray etching, the etchant solution is distributed over the boards by nozzles, and recirculated by pumps. Adjustment of the nozzle pattern, **flow** rate, temperature, and etchant composition gives predictable control of etching rates and high production rates. As more copper is consumed from the boards, the etchant becomes saturated and less eff...
322. ...mena, including large hail, strong winds, and tornadoes. Some of the most persistent severe thunderstorms, known as supercells, rotate as do cyclones. While most thunderstorms move with the mean wind **flow** through the layer of the troposphere that they occupy, vertical wind shear sometimes causes a deviation in their course at a right angle to the wind shear direction. Thunderstorms result from the rap...
323. ...Coulomb's law. Thus the inverse-square law dependence of the electric field in Coulomb's law follows from Gauss's law. Electrostatic discharge Electrostatic discharge (ESD) is a sudden and momentary **flow** of electric current between two differently-charged objects when brought close together or when the dielectric between them breaks down, often creating a visible spark associated with the static elec...
324. ...les (debris) to be carried away and the insulating properties of the dielectric to be restored. Adding new liquid dielectric in the inter-electrode volume is commonly referred to as . After a current **flow**, the voltage between the electrodes is restored to what it was before the breakdown, so that a new liquid dielectric breakdown can occur to repeat the cycle. The erosive effect of electrical discharg...
325. ...o have finished parts eroded from them as needed and without pre-drilling. Small hole EDM is used to drill rows of holes into the leading and trailing edges of turbine blades used in jet engines. Gas **flow** through these small holes allows the engines to use higher temperatures than otherwise possible. The high-temperature, very hard, single crystal alloys employed in these blades makes conventional mac...
326. ..."y" axis also known as a super drill or "hole popper" that can machine blind or through holes. EDM drills bore holes with a long brass or copper tube electrode that rotates in a chuck with a constant **flow** of distilled or deionized water flowing through the electrode as a flushing agent and dielectric. The electrode tubes operate like the wire in wire-cut EDM machines, having a spark gap and wear rate....
327. ...oxygen, is weakly diamagnetic (when oxygenated) or paramagnetic (when deoxygenated), the magnets used in magnetic therapy are many orders of magnitude too weak to have any measurable effect on blood **flow**. This is not to be confused with transcranial magnetic stimulation, a scientifically valid form of therapy, or with pulsed electromagnetic field therapy. Magnet therapy involves applying the weak mag...
328. ...gnetic therapy, which uses the weak electric or magnetic fields as well, but generated by electrically powered devices. Perhaps the most common suggested mechanism is that magnets might improve blood **flow** in underlying tissues. The field surrounding magnet therapy devices is far too weak and falls off with distance far too quickly to appreciably affect hemoglobin, other blood components, muscle tissue...
329. ...kly to appreciably affect hemoglobin, other blood components, muscle tissue, bones, blood vessels, or organs. A 1991 study on humans of static field strengths up to 1 T found no effect on local blood **flow**. Tissue oxygenation is similarly unaffected. Some practitioners claim that the magnets can restore the body's hypothetical "electromagnetic energy balance", but no such balance is medically recognize...
330. ...these claims". According to the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health, studies of magnetic jewelry have not shown demonstrable effects on pain, nerve function, cell growth or blood **flow**. A 2008 systematic review of magnet therapy for all indications found insufficient evidence to determine whether magnet therapy is effective for pain relief, as did 2012 reviews focused on osteoarthr...
331. ...: . One of the advantages of the potential divider compared to a variable resistor in series with the source is that, while variable resistors have a maximum resistance where some current will always **flow**, dividers are able to vary the output voltage from maximum () to ground (zero volts) as the wiper moves from one end of the potentiometer to the other. There is, however, always a small amount of con...
332. ...ns are made of electrical steel, which has a specified magnetic permeability, hysteresis, and saturation. Laminations reduce losses that would result from induced circulating eddy currents that would **flow** if a solid core were used. Mains powered AC motors typically immobilize the wires within the windings by impregnating them with varnish in a vacuum. This prevents the wires in the winding from vibrat...
333. ...winding around part of the pole that delays the phase of the magnetic field for that pole. A commutator is a rotary electrical switch that supplies current to the rotor. It periodically reverses the **flow** of current in the rotor windings as the shaft rotates. It consists of a cylinder composed of multiple metal contact segments on the armature. Two or more electrical contacts called "brushes" made of...
334. ...h-density polyethylene containing cross-link bonds introduced into the polymer structure, changing the thermoplastic into a thermoset. The high-temperature properties of the polymer are improved, its **flow** is reduced, and its chemical resistance is enhanced. PEX is used in some potable-water plumbing systems because tubes made of the material can be expanded to fit over a metal nipple and it will slowl...
335. ...This results in a lower tensile strength and increased ductility. LDPE is created by free-radical polymerization. The high degree of branching with long chains gives molten LDPE unique and desirable **flow** properties. LDPE is used for both rigid containers and plastic film applications such as plastic bags and film wrap. The radical polymerization process used to make LDPE does not include a catalyst t...
336. ...ms. Tube windows can be eliminated by putting the samples directly inside the tube, or, if gaseous, mixing them with the filler gas. Vacuum-tightness requirement can be eliminated by using continuous **flow** of gas at atmospheric pressure. The "Geiger plateau" is the voltage range in which the G-M tube operates in its correct mode, where ionization occurs along the length of the anode. If a G–M tube is e...
337. ...laws of thermodynamics need not always apply to dissipative systems, which are expressed in gauges of higher symmetry). The second law of thermodynamics states that in a closed linear system entropy **flow** can only be positive (or exactly zero at the end of a cycle). However, negative entropy (i.e. increased order, structure or self-organisation) can spontaneously appear in an open nonlinear thermodyna...
338. ...ncreased order, structure or self-organisation) can spontaneously appear in an open nonlinear thermodynamic system that is far from equilibrium, so long as this emergent order accelerates the overall **flow** of entropy in the total system. The 1977 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to thermodynamicist Ilya Prigogine for his theory of dissipative systems that described this notion. Prigogine described...
339. ...onary biology to even consciousness, technology and civilizations are themselves examples of thermodynamic dissipative systems; nature having naturally selected these structures to accelerate entropy **flow** within the universe to an ever-increasing degree. For example, it has been estimated that human body is 10,000 times more effective at dissipating energy per unit of mass than the sun. One may query...
340. ...id. The direction of the magnetic field through a coil of wire can be found from a form of the right-hand rule. If the fingers of the right hand are curled around the coil in the direction of current **flow** (conventional current, flow of positive charge) through the windings, the thumb points in the direction of the field inside the coil. The side of the magnet that the field lines emerge from is define...
341. ...netic field through a coil of wire can be found from a form of the right-hand rule. If the fingers of the right hand are curled around the coil in the direction of current flow (conventional current, **flow** of positive charge) through the windings, the thumb points in the direction of the field inside the coil. The side of the magnet that the field lines emerge from is defined to be the "north pole". Fo...
342. ...iented so it is reverse-biased during steady state operation and does not conduct. When the supply voltage is removed, the voltage spike forward-biases the diode and the reactive current continues to **flow** through the winding, through the diode, and back into the winding. A diode used in this way is called a freewheeling diode or flyback diode. Large electromagnets are usually powered by variable curre...
343. ...be used. Instead of using ferromagnetic materials, these use superconducting windings cooled with liquid helium, which conduct current without electrical resistance. These allow enormous currents to **flow**, which generate intense magnetic fields. Superconducting magnets are limited by the field strength at which the winding material ceases to be superconducting. Current designs are limited to 10–20 T,...
344. ...r parts of lightning, then the near parts of the return stroke, then the distant parts of the return stroke. Zener diode A Zener diode is a special type of diode designed to reliably allow current to **flow** "backwards" (inverted polarity) when a certain set reverse voltage, known as the Zener voltage, is reached. Zener diodes are manufactured with a great variety of Zener voltages and some are even vari...
345. ...rvation explains the low hardness and high ductility of single crystals of copper. At the macroscopic scale, introduction of extended defects to the crystal lattice, such as grain boundaries, hinders **flow** of the material under applied stress, thereby increasing its hardness. For this reason, copper is usually supplied in a fine-grained polycrystalline form, which has greater strength than monocrystall...
346. ...actance is infinite, behaving like an open circuit (preventing any current from flowing through the dielectric). As frequency increases, the magnitude of reactance decreases, allowing more current to **flow**. As formula_3 approaches formula_11, the capacitor's reactance approaches formula_12, behaving like a short circuit. The application of a DC voltage across a capacitor causes positive charge to accum...
347. ...me current is changing), this magnetic field is constantly changing as a result of current that oscillates back and forth. It is this change in magnetic field that induces another electric current to **flow** in the same wire (counter-EMF), in a direction such as to oppose the flow of the current originally responsible for producing the magnetic field (known as Lenz's Law). Hence, "inductive reactance" is...
348. ...esult of current that oscillates back and forth. It is this change in magnetic field that induces another electric current to flow in the same wire (counter-EMF), in a direction such as to oppose the **flow** of the current originally responsible for producing the magnetic field (known as Lenz's Law). Hence, "inductive reactance" is an opposition to the change of current through an element. For an ideal i...
349. ...ld (known as Lenz's Law). Hence, "inductive reactance" is an opposition to the change of current through an element. For an ideal inductor in an AC circuit, the inhibitive effect on change in current **flow** results in a delay, or a phase shift, of the alternating current with respect to alternating voltage. Specifically, an ideal inductor (with no resistance) will cause the current to lag the voltage by...
350. ...is more common) can limit the power capacity of an AC transmission line, because power is not completely transferred when voltage and current are out-of-phase (detailed above). That is, current will **flow** for an out-of-phase system, however real power at certain times will not be transferred, because there will be points during which instantaneous current is positive while instantaneous voltage is neg...
351. ...ansfer. Hence, real work is not performed when power transfer is "negative". However, current still flows even when a system is out-of-phase, which causes transmission lines to heat up due to current **flow**. Consequently, transmission lines can only heat up so much (or else they would physically sag too much, due to the heat expanding the metal transmission lines), so transmission line operators have a...
352. ...heat up so much (or else they would physically sag too much, due to the heat expanding the metal transmission lines), so transmission line operators have a "ceiling" on the amount of current that can **flow** through a given line, and excessive inductive reactance can limit the power capacity of a line. Power providers utilize capacitors to shift the phase and minimize the losses, based on usage patterns....
353. ...generally as the metal-oxide varistor (MOV). The randomness of orientation of ZnO grains in the bulk of this material provided the same voltage-current characteristics for both directions of current **flow**. The most common modern type of varistor is the metal-oxide varistor (MOV). This type contains a ceramic mass of zinc oxide (ZnO) grains, in a matrix of other metal oxides, such as small amounts of b...
354. ...t, manganese oxides, sandwiched between two metal plates, which constitute the electrodes of the device. The boundary between each grain and a neighbor forms a diode junction, which allows current to **flow** in only one direction. The accumulation of randomly oriented grains is electrically equivalent to a network of back-to-back diode pairs, each pair in parallel with many other pairs. When a small volt...
355. ...e leakage through the diode junctions. When a large voltage is applied, the diode junction breaks down due to a combination of thermionic emission and electron tunneling, resulting in a large current **flow**. The result of this behavior is a nonlinear current-voltage characteristic, in which the MOV has a high resistance at low voltages and a low resistance at high voltages. A varistor remains non-conduc...
356. ...bulb surrounding the filament to form a plasma by the process of impact ionization. As a result of avalanche ionization, the conductivity of the ionized gas rapidly rises, allowing higher currents to **flow** through the lamp. The fill gas helps determine the electrical characteristics of the lamp but does not give off light itself. The fill gas effectively increases the distance that electrons travel thr...
357. ...g it. Fluorescent lamps are negative differential resistance devices, so as more current flows through them, the electrical resistance of the fluorescent lamp drops, allowing for even more current to **flow**. Connected directly to a constant-voltage power supply, a fluorescent lamp would rapidly self-destruct because of the uncontrolled current flow. To prevent this, fluorescent lamps must use a ballast...
358. ...uorescent lamp drops, allowing for even more current to flow. Connected directly to a constant-voltage power supply, a fluorescent lamp would rapidly self-destruct because of the uncontrolled current **flow**. To prevent this, fluorescent lamps must use a ballast to regulate the current flow through the lamp. The terminal voltage across an operating lamp varies depending on the arc current, tube diameter,...
359. ...a constant-voltage power supply, a fluorescent lamp would rapidly self-destruct because of the uncontrolled current flow. To prevent this, fluorescent lamps must use a ballast to regulate the current **flow** through the lamp. The terminal voltage across an operating lamp varies depending on the arc current, tube diameter, temperature, and fill gas. A general lighting service T12 lamp operates at 430 mA,...
360. ...) for T12 lamps. The simplest ballast for alternating current (AC) use is an inductor placed in series, consisting of a winding on a laminated magnetic core. The inductance of this winding limits the **flow** of AC current. This type of ballast is common in 220–240V countries (And in North America, up to 30W lamps). Ballasts are rated for the size of lamp and power frequency. In North America, the AC volt...
361. ...er frequency. In North America, the AC voltage is insufficient to start long fluorescent lamps, so the ballast is often a step-up autotransformer with substantial leakage inductance (to limit current **flow**). Either form of inductive ballast may also include a capacitor for power factor correction. Fluorescent lamps can run directly from a direct current (DC) supply of sufficient voltage to strike an ar...
362. ...s to phase out T12 tubes will reduce the application of this starting method. Electronic ballasts employ transistors to change the supply frequency into high-frequency AC while regulating the current **flow** in the lamp. These ballasts take advantage of the higher efficacy of lamps, which rises by almost 10% at , compared to efficacy at normal power frequency. When the AC period is shorter than the relax...
363. ...causes an extended warm-up time to full light output, and finally causes the lamp to glow a dim pink when the argon gas takes over as the primary discharge. Subjecting the tube to asymmetric current **flow**, effectively operates it under a DC bias, and causes asymmetric distribution of mercury ions along the tube. The localized depletion of mercury vapor pressure manifests itself as pink luminescence of...
364. ...ixtures. Fluorescent lamps near end of life can present a serious radio frequency interference hazard. Oscillations are generated from the negative differential resistance of the arc, and the current **flow** through the tube can form a tuned circuit whose frequency depends on path length. Fluorescent lamps operate best around room temperature. At lower or higher temperatures, efficacy decreases. At below...
365. ...he plug is connected to the high voltage generated by an ignition coil or magneto. As current flows from the coil, a voltage develops between the central and side electrodes. Initially no current can **flow** because the fuel and air in the gap is an insulator, but as the voltage rises further it begins to change the structure of the gases between the electrodes. Once the voltage exceeds the dielectric st...
366. ...e the structure of the gases between the electrodes. Once the voltage exceeds the dielectric strength of the gases, the gases become ionized. The ionized gas becomes a conductor and allows current to **flow** across the gap. Spark plugs usually require voltage of 12,000–25,000 volts or more to "fire" properly, although it can go up to 45,000 volts. They supply higher current during the discharge process,...
367. ...ome supersaturated in these light elements that would then precipitate into the lower mantle forming oxides leading to a different variant of chemical convection. The magnetic field generated by core **flow** is essential to protect life from interplanetary radiation and prevent the atmosphere from dissipating in the solar wind. The rate of cooling by conduction and convection is uncertain, but one estima...
368. ...ut 3400 km (the radius of the Earth is 6370 km). It is divided into a solid inner core, with a radius of 1220 km, and a liquid outer core. The motion of the liquid in the outer core is driven by heat **flow** from the inner core, which is about , to the core-mantle boundary, which is about . The heat is generated by potential energy released by heavier materials sinking toward the core (planetary differen...
369. ...ed by potential energy released by heavier materials sinking toward the core (planetary differentiation, the iron catastrophe) as well as decay of radioactive elements in the interior. The pattern of **flow** is organized by the rotation of the Earth and the presence of the solid inner core. The mechanism by which the Earth generates a magnetic field is known as a geodynamo. The magnetic field is generate...
370. ...rocess, lighter elements are left behind in the fluid, making it lighter. This is called "compositional convection". A Coriolis effect, caused by the overall planetary rotation, tends to organize the **flow** into rolls aligned along the north–south polar axis. A dynamo can amplify a magnetic field, but it needs a "seed" field to get it started. For the Earth, this could have been an external magnetic fie...
371. ...ting "kinematic dynamo" computer models in which the fluid motion is chosen in advance and the effect on the magnetic field calculated. Kinematic dynamo theory was mainly a matter of trying different **flow** geometries and testing whether such geometries could sustain a dynamo. The first "self-consistent" dynamo models, ones that determine both the fluid motions and the magnetic field, were developed by...
372. ...hibits this behavior. In aerodynamics, hysteresis can be observed when decreasing the angle of attack of a wing after stall, regarding the lift and drag coefficients. The angle of attack at which the **flow** on top of the wing reattaches is generally lower than the angle of attack at which the flow separates during the increase of the angle of attack. Hysteresis can be observed in the stage-flow relation...
373. ...of attack of a wing after stall, regarding the lift and drag coefficients. The angle of attack at which the flow on top of the wing reattaches is generally lower than the angle of attack at which the **flow** separates during the increase of the angle of attack. Hysteresis can be observed in the stage-flow relationship of a river during rapidly changing conditions such as passing of a flood wave. It is mo...
374. ...hich the flow on top of the wing reattaches is generally lower than the angle of attack at which the flow separates during the increase of the angle of attack. Hysteresis can be observed in the stage-**flow** relationship of a river during rapidly changing conditions such as passing of a flood wave. It is most pronounced in low gradient streams with steep leading edge hydrographs. Moving parts within mach...
375. ...omagnetic field at low Earth orbit. Rapidly fluctuating geomagnetic fields can produce geomagnetically induced currents in pipelines. This can cause multiple problems for pipeline engineers. Pipeline **flow** meters can transmit erroneous flow information and the corrosion rate of the pipeline can be dramatically increased. Earth's atmosphere and magnetosphere allow adequate protection at ground level, bu...
376. ...Rapidly fluctuating geomagnetic fields can produce geomagnetically induced currents in pipelines. This can cause multiple problems for pipeline engineers. Pipeline flow meters can transmit erroneous **flow** information and the corrosion rate of the pipeline can be dramatically increased. Earth's atmosphere and magnetosphere allow adequate protection at ground level, but astronauts are subject to potenti...
377. ...on that momentarily upsets the balance with the compensating surface charge. Spontaneous polarization is temperature dependent, so a good perturbation probe is a change in temperature which induces a **flow** of charge to and from the surfaces. This is the pyroelectric effect. All polar crystals are pyroelectric, so the 10 polar crystal classes are sometimes referred to as the pyroelectric classes. Pyroel...
378. ...ll, but they rapidly begin to open if the membrane potential increases to a precisely defined threshold voltage, depolarising the transmembrane potential. When the channels open, they allow an inward **flow** of sodium ions, which changes the electrochemical gradient, which in turn produces a further rise in the membrane potential towards zero. This then causes more channels to open, producing a greater e...
379. ..., sodium ion channels open, allowing the entry of sodium ions into the cell. This is followed by the opening of potassium ion channels that permit the exit of potassium ions from the cell. The inward **flow** of sodium ions increases the concentration of positively charged cations in the cell and causes depolarization, where the potential of the cell is higher than the cell's resting potential. The sodium...
380. ...al synapses. Due to the direct connection between excitable cells in the form of gap junctions, an action potential can be transmitted directly from one cell to the next in either direction. The free **flow** of ions between cells enables rapid non-chemical-mediated transmission. Rectifying channels ensure that action potentials move only in one direction through an electrical synapse. Electrical synapses...
381. ...cell, the concentration and voltage differences both drive them into the cell when Na channels open. Depolarization opens both the sodium and potassium channels in the membrane, allowing the ions to **flow** into and out of the axon, respectively. If the depolarization is small (say, increasing "V" from −70 mV to −60 mV), the outward potassium current overwhelms the inward sodium current and the membrane...
382. ...air saltatory conduction, reducing the conduction velocity of action potentials. The most well-known of these is multiple sclerosis, in which the breakdown of myelin impairs coordinated movement. The **flow** of currents within an axon can be described quantitatively by cable theory and its elaborations, such as the compartmental model. Cable theory was developed in 1855 by Lord Kelvin to model the transa...
383. ...in magnetism, was dealing with tides, he did not suggest that the moon attracted the water, but that “subterranean spirits and humors, rising in sympathy with the moon, cause the sea also to rise and **flow** to the shores and up rivers”. It appears that an idea, presented in some such way as this, was more readily received than a plain statement. This so-called philosophical method was, in fact, very gen...
384. ...lectromagnetic induction was first described by Michael Faraday in 1831. In Faraday's experiment, he wrapped two wires around opposite sides of an iron ring. He expected that, when current started to **flow** in one wire, a sort of wave would travel through the ring and cause some electrical effect on the opposite side. Using a galvanometer, he observed a transient current flow in the second coil of wire...
385. ...at, when current started to flow in one wire, a sort of wave would travel through the ring and cause some electrical effect on the opposite side. Using a galvanometer, he observed a transient current **flow** in the second coil of wire each time that a battery was connected or disconnected from the first coil. This current was induced by the change in magnetic flux that occurred when the battery was conne...
386. ...14, 2015. The Mach–Zehnder interferometer's relatively large and freely accessible working space, and its flexibility in locating the fringes has made it the interferometer of choice for visualizing **flow** in wind tunnels, and for flow visualization studies in general. It is frequently used in the fields of aerodynamics, plasma physics and heat transfer to measure pressure, density, and temperature cha...
387. ...terferometer's relatively large and freely accessible working space, and its flexibility in locating the fringes has made it the interferometer of choice for visualizing flow in wind tunnels, and for **flow** visualization studies in general. It is frequently used in the fields of aerodynamics, plasma physics and heat transfer to measure pressure, density, and temperature changes in gases. Mach–Zehnder in...
388. ...t the sphere hovers motionless. Any electric current will be associated with noise from a variety of sources, one of which is shot noise. Shot noise exists because a current is not a smooth continual **flow**; instead, a current is made up of discrete electrons that pass by one at a time. By carefully analyzing the noise of a current, the charge of an electron can be calculated. This method, first propose...
389. ...ction device at the socket or within the plug. Residual-current devices, also known as ground-fault circuit interrupters and appliance leakage current interrupters, are used to detect "ground faults"—**flow** of current in other than the neutral and line wires (like the ground wire or a person). When a ground fault is detected, the device quickly cuts off the circuit. Most of the world population (Europe,...
390. ...g the lateral corticospinal tract, are located in the lateral and ventral funiculi of the spinal cord. Since the ventral and dorsal spinal cord have separate blood supply with very limited collateral **flow**, an anterior cord syndrome (paralysis or paresis with some preserved sensory function) is a possible surgical sequela, so it is important to have monitoring specific to the motor tracts as well as do...
391. ...ce, oxidation and reduction reactions occur and electrochemical cells are formed on the surface of the metal so that some areas will become anodic (oxidation) and some cathodic (reduction). Electrons **flow** from the anodic areas into the electrolyte as the metal corrodes. Conversely, as electrons flow from the electrolyte to the cathodic areas, the rate of corrosion is reduced. (The flow of electrons is...
392. ...of the metal so that some areas will become anodic (oxidation) and some cathodic (reduction). Electrons flow from the anodic areas into the electrolyte as the metal corrodes. Conversely, as electrons **flow** from the electrolyte to the cathodic areas, the rate of corrosion is reduced. (The flow of electrons is in the opposite direction of the flow of electric current.) As the metal continues to corrode,...
393. ...ion). Electrons flow from the anodic areas into the electrolyte as the metal corrodes. Conversely, as electrons flow from the electrolyte to the cathodic areas, the rate of corrosion is reduced. (The **flow** of electrons is in the opposite direction of the flow of electric current.) As the metal continues to corrode, the local potentials on the surface of the metal will change and the anodic and cathodic...
394. ...ectrolyte as the metal corrodes. Conversely, as electrons flow from the electrolyte to the cathodic areas, the rate of corrosion is reduced. (The flow of electrons is in the opposite direction of the **flow** of electric current.) As the metal continues to corrode, the local potentials on the surface of the metal will change and the anodic and cathodic areas will change and move. As a result, in ferrous m...
395. ...r in several different forms. Prevention of corrosion by cathodic protection (CP) works by introducing another metal (the galvanic anode) with a much more anodic surface, so that all the current will **flow** from the introduced anode and the metal to be protected becomes cathodic in comparison to the anode. This effectively stops the oxidation reactions on the metal surface by transferring them to the ga...
396. ...idered a reliable material, but is not suitable for use at higher temperatures, as it tends to passivate (the oxide layer formed shields from further oxidation); if this happens, current may cease to **flow** and the anode stops working. Zinc has a relatively low driving voltage, which means in higher-resistivity soils or water it may not be able to provide sufficient current. However, in some circumstanc...
397. ...r and petawatt-hour (PWh) units are large enough to conveniently express the annual electricity generation for whole countries and the world energy consumption. A kilowatt is a unit of power (rate of **flow** of energy per unit of time). A kilowatt-hour is a unit of energy. Kilowatt per hour would be a rate of change of power flow with time. Work is the amount of energy transferred to a system; power is t...
398. ...es and the world energy consumption. A kilowatt is a unit of power (rate of flow of energy per unit of time). A kilowatt-hour is a unit of energy. Kilowatt per hour would be a rate of change of power **flow** with time. Work is the amount of energy transferred to a system; power is the "rate of delivery" of energy. Energy is measured in "joules", or "watt-seconds". Power is measured in "watts", or "joules...
399. ...is the limited energy available on-board, induction MHD drives have not been developed out of the laboratory. Both systems can put the working fluid in motion according to two main designs: Internal **flow** systems concentrate the MHD interaction in a limited volume, preserving stealth characteristics. External field systems on the contrary have the ability to act on a very large expanse of surrounding...
400. ...uch very high velocities and altitude, it was thought to use the effect of a magnetic field produced by an electromagnet to replace thermal ablative shields by a "magnetic shield". Hypersonic ionized **flow** interacts with the magnetic field, inducing eddy currents in the plasma. The current combines with the magnetic field to give Lorentz forces that oppose the flow and detach the bow shock wave further...
401. ..."magnetic shield". Hypersonic ionized flow interacts with the magnetic field, inducing eddy currents in the plasma. The current combines with the magnetic field to give Lorentz forces that oppose the **flow** and detach the bow shock wave further ahead of the vehicle, lowering the heat flux which is due to the brutal recompression of air behind the stagnation point. Such passive flow control studies are s...
402. ...orces that oppose the flow and detach the bow shock wave further ahead of the vehicle, lowering the heat flux which is due to the brutal recompression of air behind the stagnation point. Such passive **flow** control studies are still ongoing, but a large-scale demonstrator has yet to be built. Active flow control by MHD force fields on the contrary involves a direct and imperious action of forces to loca...
403. ...heat flux which is due to the brutal recompression of air behind the stagnation point. Such passive flow control studies are still ongoing, but a large-scale demonstrator has yet to be built. Active **flow** control by MHD force fields on the contrary involves a direct and imperious action of forces to locally accelerate or slow down the airflow, modifying its velocity, direction, pressure, friction, hea...
404. ...discharge, RF (microwaves) electromagnetic glow discharge, laser, e-beam or betatron, radioactive source… with or without seeding of low ionization potential alkali substances (like caesium) into the **flow**. MHD studies applied to aeronautics try to extend the domain of hypersonic planes to higher Mach regimes:  The Russian project Ayaks (Ajax) is an example of MHD-controlled hypersonic aircraft concept...
405. ...gawatt compact fusion reactor), one could imagine future aircraft of a new kind silently powered by MHD accelerators, able to ionize and direct enough air downward to lift several tonnes. As external **flow** systems can control the flow over the whole wetted area, limiting thermal issues at high speeds, ambient air would be ionized and radially accelerated by Lorentz forces around an axisymmetric body (s...
406. ...), one could imagine future aircraft of a new kind silently powered by MHD accelerators, able to ionize and direct enough air downward to lift several tonnes. As external flow systems can control the **flow** over the whole wetted area, limiting thermal issues at high speeds, ambient air would be ionized and radially accelerated by Lorentz forces around an axisymmetric body (shaped as a cylinder, a cone,...
407. ...ring enough energy density (such as hypothetical fusion reactors) to feed the power-greedy electromagnets, especially pulsed inductive ones. The rapid ablation of electrodes under the intense thermal **flow** is also a concern. For these reasons, studies remain largely theoretical and experiments are still conducted in the laboratory, although over 60 years have passed since the first research in this kin...
408. ...electrolyte), not just resistors. Thermal noise is distinct from shot noise, which consists of additional current fluctuations that occur when a voltage is applied and a macroscopic current starts to **flow**. In 1905, in one of Albert Einstein's "Annus mirabilis" papers the theory of Brownian motion was first solved in terms of thermal fluctuations. The following year, in a second paper about Brownian mo...
409. ...d that thermal radiation is a form of electromagnetic radiation which varies on the nature of a surface and its temperature. Radiation waves may travel in unusual patterns compared to conduction heat **flow**. Radiation allows waves to travel from a heated body through a cold non-absorbing or partially absorbing medium and reach a warmer body again. An example is the case of the radiation waves that trave...
410. ...coatings are microscopically thin, virtually invisible, metal or metallic oxide layers deposited on a window or skylight glazing surface primarily to reduce the U-factor by suppressing radiative heat **flow**". By adding this coating we are limiting the amount of radiation that leaves the window thus increasing the amount of heat that is retained inside the window. Shiny metal surfaces, have low emissivit...
411. ...eful parameter to describe and analyze rocks. Additionally, the anisotropy of magnetic susceptibility (AMS) within a sample determines parameters as directions of paleocurrents, maturity of paleosol, **flow** direction of magma injection, tectonic strain, etc. It is a non-destructive tool which quantifies the average alignment and orientation of magnetic particles within a sample. Lenz's law Lenz's law st...
412. ...inside any loop of wire always acts to keep the magnetic flux in the loop constant. The direction of an induced current can be determined using the right-hand rule to show which direction of current **flow** would create a magnetic field that would oppose the direction of changing flux through the loop. In the examples above, if the flux is increasing, the induced field acts in opposition to it. If it is...
413. ..., assuming the fluid is fairly isotropic. As a result, a charge fluctuation at any one point has non-negligible effects at large distances. In reality, these long-range effects are suppressed by the **flow** of particles in response to electric fields. This flow reduces the "effective" interaction between particles to a short-range "screened" Coulomb interaction. This system corresponds to the simplest e...
414. ...a charge fluctuation at any one point has non-negligible effects at large distances. In reality, these long-range effects are suppressed by the flow of particles in response to electric fields. This **flow** reduces the "effective" interaction between particles to a short-range "screened" Coulomb interaction. This system corresponds to the simplest example of a renormalized interaction. In solid-state ph...
415. ...physics, the screened Poisson equation is a Poisson equation, which arises in (for example) the Klein–Gordon equation, electric field screening in plasmas, and nonlocal granular fluidity in granular **flow**. The equation is formula_1 where formula_2 is the Laplace operator, "λ" is a constant that expresses the "screening", "f" is an arbitrary function of position (known as the "source function") and "u"...
416. ...globe the amplification factor is 3. A free ball of ionized air can amplify the ambient field this much by its own conductivity. When this maintains the ionization, the ball is then a soliton in the **flow** of atmospheric electricity. Powell's kinetic theory calculation found that the ball size is set by the second Townsend coefficient (the mean free path of conduction electrons) near breakdown. Wanderi...
417. ...-current DC electricity makes injury from burns and arc-flash injury possible. Electrical conductor In physics and electrical engineering, a conductor is an object or type of material that allows the **flow** of charge (electric current) in one or more directions. Materials made of metal are common electrical conductors. The flow of negatively charged electrons generates electric current, positively charg...
418. ...al engineering, a conductor is an object or type of material that allows the flow of charge (electric current) in one or more directions. Materials made of metal are common electrical conductors. The **flow** of negatively charged electrons generates electric current, positively charged holes, and positive or negative ions in some cases. In order for current to flow within a closed electrical circuit, one...
419. ...l are common electrical conductors. The flow of negatively charged electrons generates electric current, positively charged holes, and positive or negative ions in some cases. In order for current to **flow** within a closed electrical circuit, one charged particle does not need to travel from the component producing the current (the current source) to those consuming it (the loads). Instead, the charged...
420. ...still provides a good approximation for long thin conductors such as wires. Another situation this formula is not exact for is with alternating current (AC), because the skin effect inhibits current **flow** near the center of the conductor. Then, the "geometrical" cross-section is different from the "effective" cross-section in which current actually flows, so the resistance is higher than expected. Sim...
421. ...lacement current is present too, but a major contribution to the displacement current is related to the polarization of the individual molecules of the dielectric material. Even though charges cannot **flow** freely in a dielectric, the charges in molecules can move a little under the influence of an electric field. The positive and negative charges in molecules separate under the applied field, causing a...
422. ..., and processing as cable material is manufactured. The spark associated with static electricity is caused by electrostatic discharge, or simply static discharge, as excess charge is neutralized by a **flow** of charges from or to the surroundings. The feeling of an electric shock is caused by the stimulation of nerves as the current flows through the human body. The energy stored as static electricity on...
423. ...e particles within storm clouds. In general, significant charge accumulations can only persist in regions of low electrical conductivity (very few charges free to move in the surroundings), hence the **flow** of neutralizing charges often results from neutral atoms and molecules in the air being torn apart to form separate positive and negative charges, which travel in opposite directions as an electric c...
424. ...ical spark might ignite explosive mixtures. The flowing movement of finely powdered substances or low conductivity fluids in pipes or through mechanical agitation can build up static electricity. The **flow** of granules of material such as sand down a plastic chute can transfer charge, which can be measured using a multimeter connected to metal foil lining the chute at intervals, and can be roughly propo...
425. ...l such as sand down a plastic chute can transfer charge, which can be measured using a multimeter connected to metal foil lining the chute at intervals, and can be roughly proportional to particulate **flow**. Dust clouds of finely powdered substances can become combustible or explosive. When there is a static discharge in a dust or vapor cloud, explosions have occurred. Among the major industrial inciden...
426. ...on and a tank farm in Des Moines, Iowa and Valley Center, Kansas in 2007. The ability of a fluid to retain an electrostatic charge depends on its electrical conductivity. When low conductivity fluids **flow** through pipelines or are mechanically agitated, contact-induced charge separation called flow electrification occurs. Fluids that have low electrical conductivity (below 50 picosiemens per meter), ar...
427. ...id to retain an electrostatic charge depends on its electrical conductivity. When low conductivity fluids flow through pipelines or are mechanically agitated, contact-induced charge separation called **flow** electrification occurs. Fluids that have low electrical conductivity (below 50 picosiemens per meter), are called accumulators. Fluids having conductivity above 50 pS/m are called non-accumulators. I...
428. ...ms is best controlled by limiting fluid velocity. The British standard BS PD CLC/TR 50404:2003 (formerly BS-5958-Part 2) Code of Practice for Control of Undesirable Static Electricity prescribes pipe **flow** velocity limits. Because water content has a large impact on the fluids dielectric constant, the recommended velocity for hydrocarbon fluids containing water should be limited to 1 meter per second....
429. ...c electricity. Non-polar liquids such as gasoline, toluene, xylene, diesel, kerosene and light crude oils exhibit significant ability for charge accumulation and charge retention during high velocity **flow**. Electrostatic discharges can ignite the fuel vapor. When the electrostatic discharge energy is high enough, it can ignite a fuel vapor and air mixture. Different fuels have different flammable limit...
430. ...ield. In general, an electron in a conductor will propagate randomly at the Fermi velocity, resulting in an average velocity of zero. Applying an electric field adds to this random motion a small net **flow** in one direction; this is the drift. Drift velocity is proportional to current. In a resistive material, it is also proportional to the magnitude of an external electric field. Thus Ohm's law can be...
431. ...s random thermal velocity. As a result, there is a definite small drift velocity of electrons, which is superimposed on the random motion of free electrons. Due to this drift velocity, there is a net **flow** of electrons opposite to the direction of the field. The drift speed of electrons is generally in the order of 10 meters per second whereas the thermal speed is on the order of 10 meters per second....
432. ...ing at the rate of . At 60Hz alternating current, this means that, within half a cycle (1/120th sec.), on average the electrons drift less than 0.2 μm. In context, at one ampere around electrons will **flow** across the contact point twice per cycle. But out of around movable electrons per meter of wire, this is an insignificant fraction. By comparison, the Fermi flow velocity of these electrons (which, a...
433. ..., at one ampere around electrons will flow across the contact point twice per cycle. But out of around movable electrons per meter of wire, this is an insignificant fraction. By comparison, the Fermi **flow** velocity of these electrons (which, at room temperature, can be thought of as their approximate velocity in the absence of electric current) is around . Magnetostriction Magnetostriction is a propert...
434. ...e (HDPE). Isotactic & atactic polypropylene is soluble in "p"-xylene at 140 °C. Isotactic precipitates when the solution is cooled to 25 °C and atactic portion remains soluble in "p"-xylene. The melt **flow** rate (MFR) or melt flow index (MFI) is a measure of molecular weight of polypropylene. The measure helps to determine how easily the molten raw material will flow during processing. Polypropylene wit...
435. ...actic polypropylene is soluble in "p"-xylene at 140 °C. Isotactic precipitates when the solution is cooled to 25 °C and atactic portion remains soluble in "p"-xylene. The melt flow rate (MFR) or melt **flow** index (MFI) is a measure of molecular weight of polypropylene. The measure helps to determine how easily the molten raw material will flow during processing. Polypropylene with higher MFR will fill t...
436. ...ains soluble in "p"-xylene. The melt flow rate (MFR) or melt flow index (MFI) is a measure of molecular weight of polypropylene. The measure helps to determine how easily the molten raw material will **flow** during processing. Polypropylene with higher MFR will fill the plastic mold more easily during the injection or blow-molding production process. As the melt flow increases, however, some physical pro...
437. ...w easily the molten raw material will flow during processing. Polypropylene with higher MFR will fill the plastic mold more easily during the injection or blow-molding production process. As the melt **flow** increases, however, some physical properties, like impact strength, will decrease. There are three general types of polypropylene: homopolymer, random copolymer, and block copolymer. The comonomer is...
438. ...ric. Skin conductance can increase by several orders of magnitude in milliseconds. This should not be confused with dielectric breakdown, which occurs at hundreds of volts. For these reasons, current **flow** cannot be accurately calculated by simply applying Ohm's law using a fixed resistance model. The earliest usage of the term "electrocution" cited by the Oxford English Dictionary was an 1889 newspape...
439. ...te ever since the war of the currents in the 1880s. Animal experiments conducted during this time suggested that alternating current was about twice as dangerous as direct current per unit of current **flow** (or per unit of applied voltage). It is sometimes suggested that human lethality is most common with alternating current at 100–250 volts; however, death has occurred below this range, with supplies...
440. ...imes suggested that human lethality is most common with alternating current at 100–250 volts; however, death has occurred below this range, with supplies as low as 42 volts. Assuming a steady current **flow** (as opposed to a shock from a capacitor or from static electricity), shocks above 2,700 volts are often fatal, with those above 11,000 volts being usually fatal, though exceptional cases have been no...
441. ...ent, a coated metal filament, or a separate structure of metal or carbides or borides of transition metals. Vacuum emission from metals tends to become significant only for temperatures over . Charge **flow** increases dramatically with temperature. The term "thermionic emission" is now also used to refer to any thermally-excited charge emission process, even when the charge is emitted from one solid-stat...
442. ...en acceleration. In electric motor terminology, augmented railguns are usually series-wound configurations. Some railguns also use strong neodymium magnets with the field perpendicular to the current **flow** to increase the force on the projectile. The armature may be an integral part of the projectile, but it may also be configured to accelerate a separate, electrically isolated or non-conducting projec...
443. ...an electrical power supply, to form the breech end of the gun. Then, if a conductive projectile is inserted between the rails (e.g. by insertion into the breech), it completes the circuit. Electrons **flow** from the negative terminal of the power supply up the negative rail, across the projectile, and down the positive rail, back to the power supply. This current makes the railgun behave as an electroma...
444. ...t yields an output voltage which is opposite in polarity to the input voltage. Other buck circuits exist to boost the average output current with a reduction of voltage. In a SMPS, the output current **flow** depends on the input power signal, the storage elements and circuit topologies used, and also on the pattern used (e.g., pulse-width modulation with an adjustable duty cycle) to drive the switching e...
445. ...ty to exploit resources, thus indicating better lifetime reproductive success. Genetic drift is also a factor contributing to the diversity of electric signals observed in Gymnotiformes. Reduced gene **flow** due to geographical barriers has led to vast differences signal morphology in different streams and drainages. Silicon carbide Silicon carbide (SiC), also known as carborundum (), is a hard chemical...
446. ...outer space, she is able to affect and manipulate the interstellar and intergalactic media. Storm can alter her visual perceptions so as to see the universe in terms of energy patterns, detecting the **flow** of kinetic, thermal and electromagnetic energy behind weather phenomena and can bend this energy to her will. Storm has been shown to be sensitive to the dynamics of the natural world, and her psioni...
447. ...it occurs when the positive and negative terminals of a battery or a capacitor are connected with a low-resistance conductor, like a wire. With a low resistance in the connection, a high current will **flow**, causing the delivery of a large amount of energy in a short period of time. A high current flowing through a battery can cause a rapid increase of temperature, potentially resulting in an explosion...
448. ...or starting a fire.  In electrical devices, unintentional short circuits are usually caused when a wire's insulation breaks down, or when another conducting material is introduced, allowing charge to **flow** along a different path than the one intended. In mains circuits, short circuits may occur between two phases, between a phase and neutral or between a phase and earth (ground). Such short circuits ar...
449. ...stance can never be negative. However it is easily shown that the ratio of voltage to current v/i at the terminals of any power source (AC or DC) is negative. For electric power (potential energy) to **flow** out of a device into the circuit, charge must flow through the device in the direction of increasing potential energy, conventional current (positive charge) must move from the negative to the positi...
450. ...shown that the ratio of voltage to current v/i at the terminals of any power source (AC or DC) is negative. For electric power (potential energy) to flow out of a device into the circuit, charge must **flow** through the device in the direction of increasing potential energy, conventional current (positive charge) must move from the negative to the positive terminal. So the direction of the instantaneous...
451. ...ned by the passive sign convention so the current and voltage have opposite signs, and their ratio is negative formula_21 This can also be proved from Joule's law formula_22 This shows that power can **flow** out of a device into the circuit if and only if formula_18. Whether or not this quantity is referred to as "resistance" when negative is a matter of convention. The absolute resistance of power sourc...
452. ...limited, confined to a region around the origin. For example, applying a voltage to a generator or battery "(graph, above)" greater than its open-circuit voltage will reverse the direction of current **flow**, making its static resistance positive so it consumes power. Similarly, applying a voltage to the negative impedance converter below greater than its power supply voltage "V" will cause the amplifier...
453. ...plifier with gain of 2. The output voltage of the op-amp is formula_94 So if a voltage formula_5 is applied to the input, the same voltage is applied "backwards" across formula_96, causing current to **flow** through it out of the input. The current is formula_97 So the input impedance to the circuit is formula_98 The circuit converts the impedance formula_96 to its negative. If formula_96 is a resistor o...
454. ...fference in electric potential (voltage) across the axis of the electrodes. The current's charge carriers are deflected by the Lorentz force in the presence of a magnetic field perpendicular to their **flow**. The sensing electrodes measure the potential difference (the Hall voltage) proportional to the axial component of the magnetic field that is perpendicular to "both" the current's axis and the sensin...
455. ...le for Hall effect sensors: Hall effect sensors may be used in various sensors such as rotating speed sensors (bicycle wheels, gear-teeth, automotive speedometers, electronic ignition systems), fluid **flow** sensors, current sensors, and pressure sensors. Hall sensors are commonly used to time the speed of wheels and shafts (e.g. Figure 1), such as for internal combustion engine ignition timing, tachomet...
456. ...the Hall sensor is mounted in a gap in the magnetic core around the current conductor. As a result, the DC magnetic flux can be measured, and the DC in the conductor can be calculated. When electrons **flow** through a conductor, a magnetic field is produced. Thus, it is possible to create a non-contacting current sensor or ammeters. The device has three terminals. A sensor voltage is applied across two t...
457. ...onized by the trapped electrons. Positive ions and electrons are then ejected from the thruster as a quasineutral plasma, creating thrust. The thrust produced is extremely small, with a very low mass **flow** rate and a very high effective exhaust velocity/specific impulse. This is achieved at the cost of very high electrical power requirements, on the order of 4 kW for a few hundred millinewtons of thrus...
458. ...To prevent eddy currents, which cause energy losses, the iron core is made of a bundle of parallel iron wires, individually coated with shellac to insulate them electrically. The eddy currents, which **flow** in loops in the core perpendicular to the magnetic axis, are blocked by the layers of insulation. The ends of the insulated primary coil often protruded several inches from either end of the secondar...
459. ...del refinements may ultimately lead to an accurate analytic model. Slight variations in the core-surface temperature, in the range of a few millikelvins, result in significant increases in convective **flow** and produce more realistic magnetic fields. Dynamo theory describes the process through which a rotating, convecting, and electrically conducting fluid acts to maintain a magnetic field. This theory...
460. ...and supplements kinetic energy that supports a dynamo action. In kinematic dynamo theory the velocity field is "prescribed", instead of being a dynamic variable: The model makes no provision for the **flow** distorting in response to the magnetic field. This method cannot provide the time variable behaviour of a fully nonlinear chaotic dynamo, but can be used to study how magnetic field strength varies w...
461. ...ing in response to the magnetic field. This method cannot provide the time variable behaviour of a fully nonlinear chaotic dynamo, but can be used to study how magnetic field strength varies with the **flow** structure and speed. Using Maxwell's equations simultaneously with the curl of Ohm's law, one can derive what is basically a linear eigenvalue equation for magnetic fields (), which can be done when...
462. ...equation for magnetic fields (), which can be done when assuming that the magnetic field is independent from the velocity field. One arrives at a critical "magnetic Reynolds number", above which the **flow** strength is sufficient to amplify the imposed magnetic field, and below which the magnetic field dissipates. The most functional feature of kinematic dynamo theory is that it can be used to test whet...
463. ...t capable of dynamo action. By experimentally applying a certain velocity field to a small magnetic field, one can observe whether the magnetic field tends to grow (or not) in response to the applied **flow**. If the magnetic field does grow, then the system is either capable of dynamo action or is a dynamo, but if the magnetic field does not grow, then it is simply referred to as “not a dynamo”. An analo...
464. ...of dynamo theory. Kinematic dynamo can be also viewed as the phenomenon of the spontaneous breakdown of the topological supersymmetry of the associated stochastic differential equation related to the **flow** of the background matter. Within stochastic supersymmetric theory, this supersymmetry is an intrinsic property of "all" stochastic differential equations, its interpretation is that the model's phase...
465. ...try is an intrinsic property of "all" stochastic differential equations, its interpretation is that the model's phase space preserves continuity via continuous time flows. When the continuity of that **flow** spontaneously breaks down, the system is in the stochastic state of "deterministic chaos". In other words, kinematic dynamo arises because of chaotic flow in the underlying background matter. The kin...
466. ...uous time flows. When the continuity of that flow spontaneously breaks down, the system is in the stochastic state of "deterministic chaos". In other words, kinematic dynamo arises because of chaotic **flow** in the underlying background matter. The kinematic approximation becomes invalid when the magnetic field becomes strong enough to affect the fluid motions. In that case the velocity field becomes aff...
467. ...e based on consideration of net effects. To create the magnetic field, the net electric current must wrap around the axis of rotation of the planet. In that case, for the term to be positive, the net **flow** of conducting matter must be towards the axis of rotation. The diagram only shows a net flow from the poles to the equator. However mass conservation requires an additional flow from the equator towa...
468. ...nt must wrap around the axis of rotation of the planet. In that case, for the term to be positive, the net flow of conducting matter must be towards the axis of rotation. The diagram only shows a net **flow** from the poles to the equator. However mass conservation requires an additional flow from the equator toward the poles. If that flow was along the axis of rotation, that implies the circulation would...
469. ...be positive, the net flow of conducting matter must be towards the axis of rotation. The diagram only shows a net flow from the poles to the equator. However mass conservation requires an additional **flow** from the equator toward the poles. If that flow was along the axis of rotation, that implies the circulation would be completed by a flow from the ones shown towards the axis of rotation, producing t...
470. ...must be towards the axis of rotation. The diagram only shows a net flow from the poles to the equator. However mass conservation requires an additional flow from the equator toward the poles. If that **flow** was along the axis of rotation, that implies the circulation would be completed by a flow from the ones shown towards the axis of rotation, producing the desired effect. The above formula for the rat...
471. ...the equator. However mass conservation requires an additional flow from the equator toward the poles. If that flow was along the axis of rotation, that implies the circulation would be completed by a **flow** from the ones shown towards the axis of rotation, producing the desired effect. The above formula for the rate of conversion of kinetic energy to magnetic energy, is equivalent to a rate of work done...
472. ...ocally (thus they affect each other but not in the same place and time). The current density is itself the result of the magnetic field according to Ohm's law. Again, due to matter motion and current **flow**, this is not necessarily the field at the same place and time. However these relations can still be used to deduce orders of magnitude of the quantities in question. In terms of order of magnitude, f...
473. ...of heat flowing into the system subtracted by the work done by the system on the environment, along with any change due to the addition of new particles to the system: where is the infinitesimal heat **flow** into the system, and is the infinitesimal work done by the system, is the chemical potential of particle type and is the number of the type particles. (Neither nor are exact differentials, i.e., they...
474. ...system configured on this type of platform can stand alone as a complete measurement and automation solution, with the master unit controlling sourcing, measuring, pass/fail decisions, test sequence **flow** control, binning, and the component handler or prober. Support for dedicated trigger lines means that synchronous operations between multiple instruments equipped with onboard Test Script Processors...
475. ...sator to provide support for fast changes and the mechanically switched capacitors to provide steady-state VARs. Similar devices include the static synchronous compensator (STATCOM) and unified power **flow** controller (UPFC). Electron diffraction Electron diffraction is a generic term for phenomena associated with changes in the direction of electron beams due to elastic interactions with atoms. It occu...
476. ...zero. More exactly, magnetic field penetrates into a superconductor over a small distance called London's magnetic field penetration depth (denoted and usually ≈ 100 nm). The screening currents also **flow** in this -layer near the surface, creating magnetization inside the superconductor, which perfectly compensates the applied field , thus resulting in inside the superconductor. The magnetic flux froze...
477. ...ust "taking a picture of anatomical structures", a SPECT scan monitors level of biological activity at each place in the 3-D region analyzed. Emissions from the radionuclide indicate amounts of blood **flow** in the capillaries of the imaged regions. In the same way that a plain X-ray is a 2-dimensional (2-D) view of a 3-dimensional structure, the image obtained by a gamma camera is a 2-D view of 3-D dist...
478. ...g (MPI) is a form of functional cardiac imaging, used for the diagnosis of ischemic heart disease. The underlying principle is that under conditions of stress, diseased myocardium receives less blood **flow** than normal myocardium. MPI is one of several types of cardiac stress test. A cardiac specific radiopharmaceutical is administered, e.g., Tc-tetrofosmin (Myoview, GE healthcare), Tc-sestamibi (Cardio...
479. ...ridamole (aminophylline can be used to reverse the effects of dipyridamole). SPECT imaging performed after stress reveals the distribution of the radiopharmaceutical, and therefore the relative blood **flow** to the different regions of the myocardium. Diagnosis is made by comparing stress images to a further set of images obtained at rest which are normally acquired prior to the stress images. MPI has be...
480. ...ime. Tc is a metastable nuclear isomer that emits gamma rays detectable by a gamma camera. Attaching it to exametazime allows it to be taken up by brain tissue in a manner proportional to brain blood **flow**, in turn allowing cerebral blood flow to be assessed with the nuclear gamma camera. Because blood flow in the brain is tightly coupled to local brain metabolism and energy use, the Tc-exametazime tra...
481. ...that emits gamma rays detectable by a gamma camera. Attaching it to exametazime allows it to be taken up by brain tissue in a manner proportional to brain blood flow, in turn allowing cerebral blood **flow** to be assessed with the nuclear gamma camera. Because blood flow in the brain is tightly coupled to local brain metabolism and energy use, the Tc-exametazime tracer (as well as the similar Tc-EC trac...
482. ...to exametazime allows it to be taken up by brain tissue in a manner proportional to brain blood flow, in turn allowing cerebral blood flow to be assessed with the nuclear gamma camera. Because blood **flow** in the brain is tightly coupled to local brain metabolism and energy use, the Tc-exametazime tracer (as well as the similar Tc-EC tracer) is used to assess brain metabolism regionally, in an attempt...
483. ...e-dimensional sphere of radius λ, times the width of the integration region "b"Λ divided by Λ: formula_217 In other dimensions, the constant "B" changes, but the same constant appears both in the "t" **flow** and in the coupling flow. The reason is that the derivative with respect to "t" of the closed loop with a single vertex is a closed loop with two vertices. This means that the only difference between...
484. ...adius λ, times the width of the integration region "b"Λ divided by Λ: formula_217 In other dimensions, the constant "B" changes, but the same constant appears both in the "t" flow and in the coupling **flow**. The reason is that the derivative with respect to "t" of the closed loop with a single vertex is a closed loop with two vertices. This means that the only difference between the scaling of the coupl...
485. ...without passing to an average field. Historically, this approach is due to Leo Kadanoff and predated the perturbative ε expansion. The idea is to integrate out lattice spins iteratively, generating a **flow** in couplings. But now the couplings are lattice energy coefficients. The fact that a continuum description exists guarantees that this iteration will converge to a fixed point when the temperature is...
486. ...re, the couplings will converge to zero, since the spins at large distances are uncorrelated. But when the temperature is critical, there will be nonzero coefficients linking spins at all orders. The **flow** can be approximated by only considering the first few terms. This truncated flow will produce better and better approximations to the critical exponents when more terms are included. The simplest app...
487. ...ncorrelated. But when the temperature is critical, there will be nonzero coefficients linking spins at all orders. The flow can be approximated by only considering the first few terms. This truncated **flow** will produce better and better approximations to the critical exponents when more terms are included. The simplest approximation is to keep only the usual "J" term, and discard everything else. This...
488. ...tter and better approximations to the critical exponents when more terms are included. The simplest approximation is to keep only the usual "J" term, and discard everything else. This will generate a **flow** in "J", analogous to the flow in "t" at the fixed point of λ in the ε expansion. To find the change in "J", consider the four neighbors of an odd site. These are the only spins which interact with it...
489. ...to the critical exponents when more terms are included. The simplest approximation is to keep only the usual "J" term, and discard everything else. This will generate a flow in "J", analogous to the **flow** in "t" at the fixed point of λ in the ε expansion. To find the change in "J", consider the four neighbors of an odd site. These are the only spins which interact with it. The multiplicative contribut...
490. ...s or 6"J". Since each link will contribute to two odd spins, the right value to compare with the previous one is half that: formula_229 For small "J", this quickly flows to zero coupling. Large "J"'s **flow** to large couplings. The magnetization exponent is determined from the slope of the equation at the fixed point. Variants of this method produce good numerical approximations for the critical exponent...
491. ...whenever the ratio of the electric field strength to the pressure exceeds a constant value determined by the composition of the gas. The speed with which pressure can be reduced is limited by choked **flow**, while increasing the electric field in a capacitor discharge circuit is limited by the capacitance in the circuit and the current available for charging the capacitance. These limitations on the spe...
492. ...h as a light, to attract the insect into the spark gap. Jacob's Ladder videos:  Admittance In electrical engineering, admittance is a measure of how easily a circuit or device will allow a current to **flow**. It is defined as the reciprocal of impedance, analogous to how conductance and resistance are defined. The SI unit of admittance is the siemens (symbol S); the older, synonymous unit is mho, and its...
493. ...conventional symbol for impedance. Admittance , measured in siemens, is defined as the inverse of impedance , measured in ohms: formula_1 Resistance is a measure of the opposition of a circuit to the **flow** of a steady current, while impedance takes into account not only the resistance but also dynamic effects (known as reactance). Likewise, admittance is not only a measure of the ease with which a stea...
494. ...rrent, while impedance takes into account not only the resistance but also dynamic effects (known as reactance). Likewise, admittance is not only a measure of the ease with which a steady current can **flow**, but also the dynamic effects of the material's susceptance to polarization: formula_2 where  The dynamic effects of the material's susceptance relate to the universal dielectric response, the power...
495. ...es. The Na channel opening is followed by inactivation. Na inactivation comes with slowly activating Ca channels at the same time as a few fast K channels open. There is a balance between the outward **flow** of K and the inward flow of Ca causing a plateau of length in variables. The delayed opening of more Ca-activated K channels, which are activated by build-up of Ca in the sarcoplasm, while the Ca cha...
496. ...g is followed by inactivation. Na inactivation comes with slowly activating Ca channels at the same time as a few fast K channels open. There is a balance between the outward flow of K and the inward **flow** of Ca causing a plateau of length in variables. The delayed opening of more Ca-activated K channels, which are activated by build-up of Ca in the sarcoplasm, while the Ca channels close, ends the pla...
497. ...hen joined with a thermally conducting plate on each side, usually ceramic, removing the need for a separate insulator. When a voltage is applied to the free ends of the two semiconductors there is a **flow** of DC current across the junction of the semiconductors, causing a temperature difference. The side with the cooling plate absorbs heat which is then transported by the semiconductor to the other sid...
498. ...c can be measured by the change of their AC resistance (ACR); as it wears out, the ACR will increase. The fact that TEC systems are current-controlled leads to another series of benefits. Because the **flow** of heat is directly proportional to the applied DC current, heat may be added or removed with accurate control of the direction and amount of electric current. In contrast to methods that use resisti...
499. ...te control of the direction and amount of electric current. In contrast to methods that use resistive heating or cooling methods that involve gases, TEC allows for an equal degree of control over the **flow** of heat (both in and out of a system under control). Because of this precise bidirectional heat flow control, temperatures of controlled systems can be precise to fractions of a degree, often reachin...
500. ...heating or cooling methods that involve gases, TEC allows for an equal degree of control over the flow of heat (both in and out of a system under control). Because of this precise bidirectional heat **flow** control, temperatures of controlled systems can be precise to fractions of a degree, often reaching precision of milli Kelvin (mK) in laboratory settings. TEC devices are also more flexible in shape...
501. ...em. TEC systems have a number of notable disadvantages. Foremost is their limited energy efficiency compared to conventional vapor-compression systems and the constraints on the total heat flux (heat **flow**) that they are able to generate per unit area. This topic is further discussed in the performance section below. Peltier (thermoelectric) performance is a function of ambient temperature, hot and col...
502. ...eactions which produce ozone are relatively low-energy. Therefore, the greater number of electrons of a negative corona leads to increased production. Beyond the plasma, in the "unipolar region", the **flow** is of low-energy positive ions toward the flat electrode. As with a negative corona, a positive corona is initiated by an exogenous ionization event in a region of a high potential gradient. The elec...
503. ...e is to produce a corresponding increase in current (current spike). However some voltage spikes may be created by current sources. Voltage would increase as necessary so that a constant current will **flow**. Current from a discharging inductor is one example. For sensitive electronics, excessive current can flow if this voltage spike exceeds a material's breakdown voltage, or if it causes avalanche brea...
504. ...ated by current sources. Voltage would increase as necessary so that a constant current will flow. Current from a discharging inductor is one example. For sensitive electronics, excessive current can **flow** if this voltage spike exceeds a material's breakdown voltage, or if it causes avalanche breakdown. In semiconductor junctions, excessive electric current may destroy or severely weaken that device. A...
505. ...d control exposures to ionising radiation so that deterministic effects are prevented, and the risks of stochastic effects are reduced to the extent reasonably achievable". The ICRP's recommendations **flow** down to national and regional regulators, which have the opportunity to incorporate them into their own law; this process is shown in the accompanying block diagram. In most countries a national regu...
506. ...e's Materials Science Division. When he received the Nobel Prize, his research was focused on the origins of magnetoresistance, a property of some materials that change their resistance to electrical **flow** under the influence of a magnetic field. Abrikosov was awarded the Lenin Prize in 1966, the Fritz London Memorial Prize in 1972, and the USSR State Prize in 1982. In 1989 he received the Landau Prize...
507. ...nium and such metals as tantalum, niobium, manganese, titanium, zinc, cadmium, etc., can form an oxide layer which blocks an electric current from flowing in one direction but which allows current to **flow** in the opposite direction, was first observed in 1857 by the German physicist and chemist (1805–1878). It was first put to use in 1875 by the French researcher and founder Eugène Ducretet, who coined...
508. ...etermined as follows. For an anisotropic material, the individual resistivity components, e.g. "ρ" or "ρ", can be calculated using the Montgomery method. To make a measurement, a current is caused to **flow** along one edge of the sample (for instance, "I") and the voltage across the opposite edge (in this case, "V") is measured. From these two values, a resistance (for this example, formula_2) can be fou...
509. ...sure length in the semiconductor industry, which is why they are used here instead of the SI units of meters. When a current is applied to a piece of semiconducting material, this results in a steady **flow** of electrons through the material (as shown in parts (a) and (b) of the accompanying figure). The velocity the electrons are traveling at is (see electric current): where formula_29 is the electron d...
510. ...ormula_30 is the cross-sectional area of the material and formula_25 the elementary charge (1.602×10 coulombs). If an external magnetic field is then applied perpendicular to the direction of current **flow**, then the resulting Lorentz force will cause the electrons to accumulate at one edge of the sample (see part (c) of the figure). Combining the above two equations, and noting that formula_25 is the c...
511. ...ribution of charge, as shown in part (d) of the figure. This in turn leads to a potential difference across the material, known as the Hall voltage formula_34. The current, however, continues to only **flow** along the material, which indicates that the force on the electrons due to the electric field balances the Lorentz force. Since the force on an electron from an electric field formula_35 is formula_3...
512. ...ckness to get This can then be rearranged to give the majority carrier mobility in terms of the previously calculated sheet resistance and sheet density: Electro-osmosis In chemistry, electro-osmotic **flow** (EOF, hyphen optional; synonymous with electro-osmosis or electro-endosmosis) is the motion of liquid induced by an applied potential across a porous material, capillary tube, membrane, microchannel,...
513. ...onduit. Because electro-osmotic velocities are independent of conduit size, as long as the electrical double layer is much smaller than the characteristic length scale of the channel, electro-osmotic **flow** will have little effect. Electro-osmotic flow is most significant when in small channels, and is an essential component in chemical separation techniques, notably capillary electrophoresis. Electro-o...
514. ...independent of conduit size, as long as the electrical double layer is much smaller than the characteristic length scale of the channel, electro-osmotic flow will have little effect. Electro-osmotic **flow** is most significant when in small channels, and is an essential component in chemical separation techniques, notably capillary electrophoresis. Electro-osmotic flow can occur in natural unfiltered wa...
515. ...ave little effect. Electro-osmotic flow is most significant when in small channels, and is an essential component in chemical separation techniques, notably capillary electrophoresis. Electro-osmotic **flow** can occur in natural unfiltered water, as well as buffered solutions. Electro-osmotic flow was first reported in 1807 by Ferdinand Friedrich Reuss (18 February 1778 (Tübingen, Germany) – 14 April 185...
516. ...an essential component in chemical separation techniques, notably capillary electrophoresis. Electro-osmotic flow can occur in natural unfiltered water, as well as buffered solutions. Electro-osmotic **flow** was first reported in 1807 by Ferdinand Friedrich Reuss (18 February 1778 (Tübingen, Germany) – 14 April 1852 (Stuttgart, Germany)) in an unpublished lecture before the Physical-Medical Society of Mo...
517. ...18 February 1778 (Tübingen, Germany) – 14 April 1852 (Stuttgart, Germany)) in an unpublished lecture before the Physical-Medical Society of Moscow; Reuss first published an account of electro-osmotic **flow** in 1809 in the "Memoirs of the Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow". He showed that water could be made to flow through a plug of clay by applying an electric voltage. Clay is composed of close...
518. ...al-Medical Society of Moscow; Reuss first published an account of electro-osmotic flow in 1809 in the "Memoirs of the Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow". He showed that water could be made to **flow** through a plug of clay by applying an electric voltage. Clay is composed of closely packed particles of silica and other minerals, and water flows through the narrow spaces between these particles ju...
519. ...aces between these particles just as it would through a narrow glass tube. Any combination of an electrolyte (a fluid containing dissolved ions) and an insulating solid would generate electro-osmotic **flow**, though for water/silica the effect is particularly large. Even so, flow speeds are typically only a few millimeters per second. Electro-osmosis was discovered independently in 1814 by the English ch...
520. .... Any combination of an electrolyte (a fluid containing dissolved ions) and an insulating solid would generate electro-osmotic flow, though for water/silica the effect is particularly large. Even so, **flow** speeds are typically only a few millimeters per second. Electro-osmosis was discovered independently in 1814 by the English chemist Robert Porrett Jr. (1783–1868). Electroosmotic flow is caused by th...
521. ...large. Even so, flow speeds are typically only a few millimeters per second. Electro-osmosis was discovered independently in 1814 by the English chemist Robert Porrett Jr. (1783–1868). Electroosmotic **flow** is caused by the Coulomb force induced by an electric field on net mobile electric charge in a solution. Because the chemical equilibrium between a solid surface and an electrolyte solution typically...
522. ...ric field is applied to the fluid (usually via electrodes placed at inlets and outlets), the net charge in the electrical double layer is induced to move by the resulting Coulomb force. The resulting **flow** is termed electroosmotic flow. The resulting flow from applying a voltage is a plug flow. Unlike a parabolic profile flow generated from a pressure differential, a plug flow’s velocity profile is app...
523. ...uid (usually via electrodes placed at inlets and outlets), the net charge in the electrical double layer is induced to move by the resulting Coulomb force. The resulting flow is termed electroosmotic **flow**. The resulting flow from applying a voltage is a plug flow. Unlike a parabolic profile flow generated from a pressure differential, a plug flow’s velocity profile is approximately planar, with slight...
524. ...ctrodes placed at inlets and outlets), the net charge in the electrical double layer is induced to move by the resulting Coulomb force. The resulting flow is termed electroosmotic flow. The resulting **flow** from applying a voltage is a plug flow. Unlike a parabolic profile flow generated from a pressure differential, a plug flow’s velocity profile is approximately planar, with slight variation near the...
525. ...the net charge in the electrical double layer is induced to move by the resulting Coulomb force. The resulting flow is termed electroosmotic flow. The resulting flow from applying a voltage is a plug **flow**. Unlike a parabolic profile flow generated from a pressure differential, a plug flow’s velocity profile is approximately planar, with slight variation near the electric double layer. This offers sign...
526. ...double layer is induced to move by the resulting Coulomb force. The resulting flow is termed electroosmotic flow. The resulting flow from applying a voltage is a plug flow. Unlike a parabolic profile **flow** generated from a pressure differential, a plug flow’s velocity profile is approximately planar, with slight variation near the electric double layer. This offers significantly less deleterious disper...
527. ...lomb force. The resulting flow is termed electroosmotic flow. The resulting flow from applying a voltage is a plug flow. Unlike a parabolic profile flow generated from a pressure differential, a plug **flow**’s velocity profile is approximately planar, with slight variation near the electric double layer. This offers significantly less deleterious dispersive effects and can be controlled without valves, o...
528. ...controlled without valves, offering a high-performance method for fluid separation, although many complex factors prove this control to be difficult. Because of difficulties measuring and monitoring **flow** in microfluidic channels, primarily disrupting the flow pattern, most analysis is done through numerical methods and simulation. Electroosmotic flow through microchannels can be modeled after the Nav...
529. ...method for fluid separation, although many complex factors prove this control to be difficult. Because of difficulties measuring and monitoring flow in microfluidic channels, primarily disrupting the **flow** pattern, most analysis is done through numerical methods and simulation. Electroosmotic flow through microchannels can be modeled after the Navier-Stokes equation with the driving force deriving from...
530. .... Because of difficulties measuring and monitoring flow in microfluidic channels, primarily disrupting the flow pattern, most analysis is done through numerical methods and simulation. Electroosmotic **flow** through microchannels can be modeled after the Navier-Stokes equation with the driving force deriving from the electric field and the pressure differential. Thus it is governed by the continuity equa...
531. ...he chemical species, formula_12 is the valence of ionic species, formula_13 is the elementary charge, formula_14 is the Boltzmann constant, and formula_15 is the absolute temperature. Electro-osmotic **flow** is commonly used in microfluidic devices, soil analysis and processing, and chemical analysis, all of which routinely involve systems with highly charged surfaces, often of oxides. One example is cap...
532. ...used to separate chemicals according to their electrophoretic mobility by applying an electric field to a narrow capillary, usually made of silica. In electrophoretic separations, the electroosmotic **flow** affects the elution time of the analytes. Electro-osmotic flow is actuated in a FlowFET to electronically control fluid flow through a junction. It is projected that micro fluidic devices utilizing e...
533. ...mobility by applying an electric field to a narrow capillary, usually made of silica. In electrophoretic separations, the electroosmotic flow affects the elution time of the analytes. Electro-osmotic **flow** is actuated in a FlowFET to electronically control fluid flow through a junction. It is projected that micro fluidic devices utilizing electroosmotic flow will have applications in medical research....
534. ...usually made of silica. In electrophoretic separations, the electroosmotic flow affects the elution time of the analytes. Electro-osmotic flow is actuated in a FlowFET to electronically control fluid **flow** through a junction. It is projected that micro fluidic devices utilizing electroosmotic flow will have applications in medical research. Once controlling this flow is better understood and implemente...
535. ...lution time of the analytes. Electro-osmotic flow is actuated in a FlowFET to electronically control fluid flow through a junction. It is projected that micro fluidic devices utilizing electroosmotic **flow** will have applications in medical research. Once controlling this flow is better understood and implemented, the ability to separate fluids on the atomic level will be a vital component for drug disc...
536. ...FET to electronically control fluid flow through a junction. It is projected that micro fluidic devices utilizing electroosmotic flow will have applications in medical research. Once controlling this **flow** is better understood and implemented, the ability to separate fluids on the atomic level will be a vital component for drug dischargers. Mixing fluids at the micro scale is currently troublesome. It...
537. ...biology, electro-osmosis is also used as an alternative or supplemental explanation for the movement of polar liquids via the phloem that differs from the cohesion-tension theory supplied in the mass **flow** hypothesis and others, such as cytoplasmic streaming. Companion cells are involved in the "cyclic" withdrawal of ions (K) from sieve tubes, and their secretion parallel to their position of withdrawa...
538. ...ricity. Henry Ford is quoted as saying that mass production would not have been possible without electricity because it allowed placement of machine tools and other equipment in the order of the work **flow**. The first paper making machine was the Fourdrinier machine, built by Sealy and Henry Fourdrinier, stationers in London. In 1800, Matthias Koops, working in London, investigated the idea of using woo...
539. ...a truly negative temperature on the Kelvin scale is "hotter" than any system with a positive temperature. If a negative-temperature system and a positive-temperature system come in contact, heat will **flow** from the negative- to the positive-temperature system. A standard example of such a system is population inversion in laser physics. Thermodynamic systems with unbounded phase space cannot achieve ne...
540. ...agnetic field. In this case, energy flows fairly rapidly among the spin states of interacting atoms, but energy transfer between the nuclear spins and other modes is relatively slow. Since the energy **flow** is predominantly within the spin system, it makes sense to think of a spin temperature that is distinct from the temperature associated to other modes. A definition of temperature can be based on the...
541. ...w neurosurgical procedures that allow blinded studies. As a first approximation, DBS is thought to mimic the clinical effects of lesioning, likely by attenuating (pathologically elevated) information **flow** through affected brain networks. Thus, DBS is thought to create an 'informational lesion', which can be switched off by turning off the DBS device, i.e. is largely reversible. This is a strong advant...
542. ...the investigation of plasma properties by observing the fluorescence emitted when the plasma is stimulated by laser radiation. This method allows for the measurement of plasma parameters such as ion **flow**, ion temperature, magnetic field strength, and plasma density. Typically, tunable dye lasers are utilized to carry out these measurements. The pioneering application of LIF in plasma physics occurred...
543. ...her, Crystal can control the movement of water to a certain extent, via manipulation of inter-atomic van der Waals force controlling surface tension, divining water from the ground, and causing it to **flow** in designated directions. The maximum volume is unknown, although she has demonstrated the ability to create a maelstrom large and powerful enough to trap at least a dozen individuals, including Namo...
544. ...s. She is able to affect the elements she controls on an atomic level, giving them an electrical charge. Once the molecules are charged, she retains her control over them, allowing her to control the **flow** of the current, including the ability to summon lightning bolts. Her control over the elements at the atomic level also allows her to increase or decrease their molecular movement. This effectively a...
545. ...after M-day by celestial technology that reactivated her X-gene. She can manipulate metals which are susceptible to magnetism. She has the power to manipulate the iron in a body to reverse the blood **flow**. Polaris is able to generate magnetic energy pulses. She can create magnetic force-fields. She has the power to manipulate magnetic fields. Polaris can use her abilities to allow herself to fly. She...
546. ...field past a critical value "H" leads to a mixed state (also known as the vortex state) in which an increasing amount of magnetic flux penetrates the material, but there remains no resistance to the **flow** of electric current as long as the current is not too large. At a second critical field strength "H", superconductivity is destroyed. The mixed state is actually caused by vortices in the electronic...
547. ...neralization one imposes that the superpotential possess a degenerate critical point. The same month, together with Brian Greene they argued that these theories are related by a renormalization group **flow** to sigma models on Calabi–Yau manifolds. In his 1993 paper "Phases of "N" = 2 theories in two-dimensions", Edward Witten argued that Landau–Ginzburg theories and sigma models on Calabi–Yau manifolds...
548. ...nical diagnostics and therapies involving fluids, cells, and tissues. These advances are allowing scientists and physicians opportunities for superior, non-invasive diagnostics for vascular and blood **flow**, as well as tools for better examination of skin lesions. In addition to new diagnostic tools, the advancements in biophotonics research have provided new photothermal, photodynamic, and tissue thera...
549. ...ctors use multiple elements. In the shorting method the electrical lines are temporarily shorted together (as by a spark gap) or clamped to a target voltage (as by a MOV) resulting in a large current **flow**. The voltage spike is reduced as the shorting current flows through the resistance in the power lines. The spike's energy is dissipated in the power lines or the ground, or in the protector, converte...
550. ...n used extensively to trace the path of biochemical reactions. A radioactive tracer can also be used to track the distribution of a substance within a natural system such as a cell or tissue, or as a **flow** tracer to track fluid flow. Radioactive tracers are also used to determine the location of fractures created by hydraulic fracturing in natural gas production. Radioactive tracers form the basis of a...
551. ...the path of biochemical reactions. A radioactive tracer can also be used to track the distribution of a substance within a natural system such as a cell or tissue, or as a flow tracer to track fluid **flow**. Radioactive tracers are also used to determine the location of fractures created by hydraulic fracturing in natural gas production. Radioactive tracers form the basis of a variety of imaging systems...
552. ...the floor, Wasp dragged his unconscious body away. Janet van Dyne appears in media set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe: Polar drift Polar drift is a geological phenomenon caused by variations in the **flow** of molten iron in Earth's outer core, resulting in changes in the orientation of Earth's magnetic field, and hence the position of the magnetic north- and south poles. The North magnetic pole is appr...
553. ...ch drops the output ripple, and adds efficiency. Because the power transfer flows continuously via the capacitor, this type of switcher has minimized EMI radiation. The Ćuk converter allows energy to **flow** bidirectionally by using a diode and a switch. A non-isolated Ćuk converter comprises two inductors, two capacitors, a switch (usually a transistor), and a diode. Its schematic can be seen in figure...
554. ...ffect". These authors were awarded patents on the effects that were never enforced, but never challenged. Before Josephson's prediction, it was only known that single (i.e., non-paired) electrons can **flow** through an insulating barrier, by means of quantum tunneling. Josephson was the first to predict the tunneling of superconducting Cooper pairs. For this work, Josephson received the Nobel Prize in Ph...
555. ...ating or cooling at an electrified junction of two different conductors. The effect is named after French physicist Jean Charles Athanase Peltier, who discovered it in 1834. When a current is made to **flow** through a junction between two conductors, A and B, heat may be generated or removed at the junction. The Peltier heat generated at the junction per unit time is formula_13 where formula_14 and formu...
556. ...g and thermal-gradient effects (see below). The Peltier coefficients represent how much heat is carried per unit charge. Since charge current must be continuous across a junction, the associated heat **flow** will develop a discontinuity if formula_14 and formula_15 are different. The Peltier effect can be considered as the back-action counterpart to the Seebeck effect (analogous to the back-EMF in magnet...
557. ...ts a heat production rate per unit volume. formula_21 where formula_6 is the temperature gradient, and formula_23 is the Thomson coefficient. The Thomson effect is a manifestation of the direction of **flow** of electrical carriers with respect to a temperature gradient within a conductor. These absorb energy (heat) flowing in a direction opposite to a thermal gradient, increasing their potential energy,...
558. ...ary heat conduction. As stated above, the Seebeck effect generates an electromotive force, leading to the current equation formula_25 To describe the Peltier and Thomson effects, we must consider the **flow** of energy. If temperature and charge change with time, the full thermoelectric equation for the energy accumulation, formula_26, is formula_27 where formula_28 is the thermal conductivity. The first...
559. ...uit the windings with a piece of superconductor once the magnet has been energized. The windings become a closed superconducting loop, the power supply can be turned off, and persistent currents will **flow** for months, preserving the magnetic field. The advantage of this "persistent mode" is that stability of the magnetic field is better than is achievable with the best power supplies, and no energy is...
560. ...ric current induced within conductors by a changing magnetic field in the conductor according to Faraday's law of induction or by the relative motion of a conductor in a magnetic field. Eddy currents **flow** in closed loops within conductors, in planes perpendicular to the magnetic field. They can be induced within nearby stationary conductors by a time-varying magnetic field created by an AC electromagn...
561. ...ctive bodies could be magnetized; these discoveries were completed and explained by Michael Faraday (1791–1867). In 1834, Emil Lenz stated Lenz's law, which says that the direction of induced current **flow** in an object will be such that its magnetic field will oppose the change of magnetic flux that caused the current flow. Eddy currents produce a secondary field that cancels a part of the external fie...
562. ...4, Emil Lenz stated Lenz's law, which says that the direction of induced current flow in an object will be such that its magnetic field will oppose the change of magnetic flux that caused the current **flow**. Eddy currents produce a secondary field that cancels a part of the external field and causes some of the external flux to avoid the conductor. French physicist Léon Foucault (1819–1868) is credited...
563. ...e on them given by formula_9. Since the charge formula_10 of the electrons is negative, by the right hand rule the force is to the right looking in the direction of motion of the sheet. So there is a **flow** of electrons toward the viewer under the magnet. This divides into two parts, flowing right and left around the magnet outside the magnetic field back to the far side of the magnet in two circular ed...
564. ...an important role in inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. A neurotransmitter binds to the extracellular site and opens the ion channel that is made up of a membrane-spanning domain that allows ions to **flow** across the membrane inside the postsynaptic cell. This type of receptor produces very fast postsynaptic actions within a couple of milliseconds of the presynaptic terminal receiving an action potenti...
565. ...otential (EPSP) is a postsynaptic potential that makes the postsynaptic neuron more likely to fire an action potential. This temporary depolarization of postsynaptic membrane potential, caused by the **flow** of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell, is a result of opening ligand-gated ion channels. These are the opposite of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), which usually result fro...
566. ...sitively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell, is a result of opening ligand-gated ion channels. These are the opposite of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs), which usually result from the **flow** of "negative" ions into the cell or positive ions "out" of the cell. EPSPs can also result from a decrease in outgoing positive charges, while IPSPs are sometimes caused by an increase in positive ch...
567. ...s into the cell or positive ions "out" of the cell. EPSPs can also result from a decrease in outgoing positive charges, while IPSPs are sometimes caused by an increase in positive charge outflow. The **flow** of ions that causes an EPSP is an excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC). EPSPs, like IPSPs, are graded (i.e. they have an additive effect). When multiple EPSPs occur on a single patch of postsynapti...
568. ...ratum radiatum: the field EPSP. The voltage deflection recorded during a field EPSP is negative-going, while an intracellularly recorded EPSP is positive-going. This difference is due to the relative **flow** of ions (primarily the sodium ion) into the cell, which, in the case of the field EPSP is away from the electrode, while for an intracellular EPSPs it is towards the electrode. After a field EPSP, th...
569. ...e constructal law is a first principle of physics which summarizes the tendency in nature to generate configurations (patterns, designs) that facilitate the free movement of the imposed currents that **flow** through it. The constructal law predicts that the tree-like designs described in this article should emerge and evolve to facilitate the movement (point-to-area) of the electrical currents flowing th...
570. ...an electric current creates a temperature difference. These phenomena are known more specifically as the Seebeck effect (creating a voltage from temperature difference), Peltier effect (driving heat **flow** with an electric current), and Thomson effect (reversible heating or cooling within a conductor when there is both an electric current and a temperature gradient). While all materials have a nonzero...
571. ...rties are temperature-independent. For a single thermoelectric leg the device efficiency can be calculated from the temperature dependent properties "S", "κ" and "σ" and the heat and electric current **flow** through the material. In an actual thermoelectric device, two materials are used (typically one n-type and one p-type) with metal interconnects. The maximum efficiency formula_12 is then calculated f...
572. ...es a signal representing some characteristic of the radiation. Radiant energy detectors produce responses to incident radiant energy either as an increase or decrease in electric potential or current **flow** or some other perceivable change, such as exposure of photographic film. Earnshaw's theorem Earnshaw's theorem states that a collection of point charges cannot be maintained in a stable stationary eq...
573. ...sure is easier. Temporal plasma is often used to replicate ionic reactions in atmospheric conditions in a controlled environment. A flowing afterglow is an ion source that is used to create ions in a **flow** of inert gas, typically helium or argon. Flowing afterglow ion sources usually consist of a dielectric discharge that gases are channeled through to be excited and thus made into plasma. Flowing afte...
574. ...erglow ion sources usually consist of a dielectric discharge that gases are channeled through to be excited and thus made into plasma. Flowing afterglow ion sources can be coupled with a selected-ion **flow**-tube for selection of reactant ions. When this ion source is coupled with mass spectrometry it is referred to as flowing afterglow mass spectrometry. Flowing-afterglow mass spectrometry uses a flowin...
575. ...ry it is referred to as flowing afterglow mass spectrometry. Flowing-afterglow mass spectrometry uses a flowing afterglow to create protonated water cluster ions in a helium or argon carrier gas in a **flow** tube that react with sample molecules that are measured by a mass spectrometer downstream. These systems can be used for trace gas analysis. This works by keeping the initial ionization source spatia...
576. ...and one region experienced a temporary fault or other generation-load mismatch, then adjacent generators would observe a decrease in frequency but a counterbalancing increase in outward tieline power **flow**, giving no ACE. They would thus make no governor adjustments in the (presumed) brief period before the failed region recovered. Rate of change of frequency (also RoCoF) is simply a time derivative of...
577. ...r and a voltage clamp, which is an electronic feedback circuit, allows the experimenter to maintain the membrane potential at a fixed point and the voltage clamp then measures tiny changes in current **flow**. The membrane currents giving rise to hyperpolarization are either an increase in outward current or a decrease in inward current. Faraday effect The Faraday effect or Faraday rotation, sometimes ref...
578. ...s object in which vibrations travel as waves, at an approximately constant velocity, bouncing back and forth between the sides of the resonator. The material of the resonator, through which the waves **flow**, can be viewed as being made of millions of coupled moving parts (such as atoms). Therefore, they can have millions of resonant frequencies, although only a few may be used in practical resonators. T...
579. ...s of inserting a tiny, diamond-tipped, drill-like device into the affected artery to remove fatty deposits or plaque. The procedure is used in the treatment of coronary heart disease to restore blood **flow**. Microwave ablation (MWA) is similar to RFA but at higher frequencies of electromagnetic radiation. High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) ablation removes tissue from within the body noninvasively...
580. ...and some for structural fire protection. Control grid The control grid is an electrode used in amplifying thermionic valves (vacuum tubes) such as the triode, tetrode and pentode, used to control the **flow** of electrons from the cathode to the anode (plate) electrode. The control grid usually consists of a cylindrical screen or helix of fine wire surrounding the cathode, and is surrounded in turn by the...
581. ...cycle when the plate voltage is below the screen grid voltage, secondary electrons from the plate are attracted to the screen grid and return to the cathode through the screen grid power supply. This **flow** of electrons away from the plate causes a reduction of plate current when the plate voltage increases, in other words the plate has a negative resistance with respect to the cathode. This can cause d...
582. ...lows through a person from phase to neutral or from phase to phase, for example where a finger touches both live and neutral contacts in a light fitting; a device cannot differentiate between current **flow** through an intended load from flow through a person, though the RCD may still trip if the person is in contact with the ground (earth), as some current may still pass through the persons finger and b...
583. ...neutral or from phase to phase, for example where a finger touches both live and neutral contacts in a light fitting; a device cannot differentiate between current flow through an intended load from **flow** through a person, though the RCD may still trip if the person is in contact with the ground (earth), as some current may still pass through the persons finger and body to earth. Whole installations o...
584. ...ial cells that line the interior of both blood and lymph vessels. The endothelium that lines blood vessels is known as vascular endothelium, which is subject to and must withstand the forces of blood **flow** and blood pressure from the cardiovascular system. To withstand these cardiovascular forces, endothelial cells must simultaneously have a structure capable of withstanding the forces of circulation w...
585. ...luminum alloy, but this alloy was eventually deemed unsuitable for branch circuits due to galvanic corrosion where the copper and aluminum touched, resulting in poor contact and resistance to current **flow**, connector overheating problems, and potential fire risk. Today, a new aluminum wire (AA-8000) has been approved for branch circuits that does not cause corrosion where it contacts copper, but it is...
586. ...attempts to explain the resistivity of a conductor in terms of the scattering of electrons (the carriers of electricity) by the relatively immobile ions in the metal that act like obstructions to the **flow** of electrons. The model, which is an application of kinetic theory, assumes that the microscopic behaviour of electrons in a solid may be treated classically and behaves much like a pinball machine,...
587. ...side the capacitor, the displacement current density is found by dividing by the area of the surface: formula_18 where ' is the current leaving the cylindrical surface (which must equal ') and is the **flow** of charge per unit area into the cylindrical surface through the face . Combining these results, the magnetic field is found using the integral form of Ampère's law with an arbitrary choice of contou...
588. ...e potential difference produced by activation of a sensory receptor. A receptor potential is often produced by sensory transduction. It is generally a depolarizing event resulting from inward current **flow**. The influx of current will often bring the membrane potential of the sensory receptor towards the threshold for triggering an action potential. Receptor potential can work to trigger an action poten...
589. ...ion potential. Receptor potential can work to trigger an action potential either within the same neuron or on an adjacent cell. Within the same neuron, a receptor potential can cause local current to **flow** to a region capable of generating an action potential by opening voltage-gated ion channels. A receptor potential can also cause the release of neurotransmitters from one cell that will act on anothe...
590. ...c force "F", as a result of the electric field formula_1, which has the same direction as the electric field, and 2) The force from the exchange of momentum with other charge carriers "F", toward the **flow** of charge carriers, is in the opposite direction of the electric field. In metallic conductors "F" is caused by a so-called "electron wind" or "ion wind". The resulting force "F" on an activated ion...
591. ...to move from its original position. Over time this force knocks a significant number of atoms far from their original positions. A break or gap can develop in the conducting material, preventing the **flow** of electricity. In narrow interconnect conductors, such as those linking transistors and other components in integrated circuits, this is known as a "void" or "internal" "failure" (open circuit). Ele...
592. ...carrying capability. It is known as "Blech length". Any wire that has a length below this limit will have a stretched limit for electromigration. Here, a mechanical stress buildup causes an atom back **flow** process which reduces or even compensates the effective material flow towards the anode. The Blech length must be considered when designing test structures to evaluate electromigration. This minimum...
593. ...a length below this limit will have a stretched limit for electromigration. Here, a mechanical stress buildup causes an atom back flow process which reduces or even compensates the effective material **flow** towards the anode. The Blech length must be considered when designing test structures to evaluate electromigration. This minimum length is typically some tens of microns for chip traces, and intercon...
594. ...lder joints (SnPb or SnAgCu lead-free) used in IC chips, however, electromigration occurs at much lower current densities, e.g. 10 A/cm. It causes a net atom transport along the direction of electron **flow**. The atoms accumulate at the anode, while voids are generated at the cathode and back stress is induced during electromigration. The typical failure of a solder joint due to electromigration will occ...
595. ...the existence of electromagnetic waves as the "wireless" carrier of electromagnetic energy. Around 1884 John Henry Poynting defined the Poynting vector and gave Poynting's theorem, which describe the **flow** of power across an area within electromagnetic radiation and allow for a correct analysis of wireless power transfer systems. This was followed on by Heinrich Rudolf Hertz' 1888 validation of the the...
596. ...tter is applied to the transmitting plate, and the oscillating electric field induces an alternating potential on the receiver plate by electrostatic induction, which causes an alternating current to **flow** in the load circuit. The amount of power transferred increases with the frequency the square of the voltage, and the capacitance between the plates, which is proportional to the area of the smaller p...
597. ...field gradient exists between the two electrodes, exceeding 34 kilovolts per centimeter at sea level atmospheric pressure, an electric arc occurs. This atmospheric dielectric breakdown results in the **flow** of electric current along a random trajectory through an ionized plasma channel between the two electrodes. An example of this is natural lightning, where one electrode is a virtual point in a cloud...
598. ...hazard with some old vacuum-tube equipment with live chassis). With the transformer, as there is no conductive connection between transformer secondary and primary, only a small leakage current will **flow** if the exposed live metal is connected to earth. Even if an isolation transformer is used, hazardous voltages may still be present between components of the isolated device. Thus it is still possible...
599. ...aniell cell: Reversal potential In a biological membrane, the reversal potential is the membrane potential at which the direction of ionic current reverses. At the reversal potential, there is no net **flow** of ions from one side of the membrane to the other. For channels that are permeable to only a single type of ion, the reversal potential is identical to the equilibrium potential of the ion.  The equ...
600. ...of ion, the reversal potential is identical to the equilibrium potential of the ion.  The equilibrium potential for an ion is the membrane potential at which there is no net movement of the ion. The **flow** of any inorganic ion, such as Na or K, through an ion channel (since membranes are normally impermeable to ions) is driven by the electrochemical gradient for that ion. This gradient consists of two...
601. ...ence in the concentration of that ion across the membrane, and the voltage gradient. When these two influences balance each other, the electrochemical gradient for the ion is zero and there is no net **flow** of the ion through the channel; this also translates to no current across the membrane so long as only one ionic species is involved. The voltage gradient at which this equilibrium is reached is the...
602. ...Nernst equation.  We can consider as an example a positively charged ion, such as K, and a negatively charged membrane, as it is commonly the case in most organisms. The membrane voltage opposes the **flow** of the potassium ions out of the cell and the ions can leave the interior of the cell only if they have sufficient thermal energy to overcome the energy barrier produced by the negative membrane volt...
603. ...mbrane voltage is exactly equal to the equilibrium potential of that ion. When V is at the reversal potential for an event such as a synaptic potential ( is equal to 0), the identity of the ions that **flow** during an EPC can be deduced by comparing the reversal potential of the EPC to the equilibrium potential for various ions. For instance several excitatory ionotropic ligand-gated neurotransmitter rec...
604. ...d to move the cell membrane potential during the pacemaker phase is extremely small, in the order of few pAs, but this net flux arises from time to time changing contribution of several currents that **flow** with different voltage and time dependence. Evidence in support of the active presence of K, Ca, Na channels and Na/K exchanger during the pacemaker phase have been variously reported in the literatu...
605. ...urrent overcomes the delayed outward current of potassium. At resting level, on the other hand, the potassium and sodium currents are equal and opposite in a stable manner, where a sudden, continuous **flow** of ions should not result. The basis is that at a certain level of depolarization, when the currents are equal and opposite in an unstable manner, any further entry of positive charge generates an ac...
606. ...any proteins that are embedded in or completely cross the lipid bilayer. Some of those proteins allow for the highly specific passage of ions, ion channels. Leak potassium channels allow potassium to **flow** through the membrane in response to the disparity in concentrations of potassium inside (high concentration) and outside the cell (low). The loss of positive(+) charges of the potassium(K+) ions from...
607. ...it past the cell's membrane resistance and capacitance. For example, a neuron with a large diameter has more ionic channels in its membrane than a smaller cell, resulting in a lower resistance to the **flow** of ionic current. The current spreads quicker in a cell with less resistance, and is more likely to reach the threshold at other portions of the neuron. The threshold potential has also been shown ex...
608. ...l, where they open at a different voltage stimulus compared to the quickly activated sodium channels. They rectify, or repair, the balance of ions across the membrane by opening and letting potassium **flow** down its concentration gradient from inside to outside the cell. They close slowly as well, resulting in an outward flow of positive charge that exceeds the balance necessary. It results in excess ne...
609. ...pair, the balance of ions across the membrane by opening and letting potassium flow down its concentration gradient from inside to outside the cell. They close slowly as well, resulting in an outward **flow** of positive charge that exceeds the balance necessary. It results in excess negativity in the cell, requiring an extremely large stimulus and resulting depolarization to cause a response. Threshold t...
610. ...on of hydrodynamic force and magnetic force. By eliminating physical contact surfaces, magnetic bearings make it easier to reduce areas of high shear stress (which leads to red blood cell damage) and **flow** stagnation (which leads to clotting) in these blood pumps. Berlin Heart INCOR was the first commercial ventricular assist device without mechanical or fluid dynamic stabilisation. Calnetix Technologi...
611. ...lectrical field strength. The generator creates the electrical current which flows to the first electrode and passes through the food product placed in the electrode gap. The food product resists the **flow** of current causing internal heating. The current continues to flow to the second electrode and back to the power source to close the circuit. The insulator caps around the electrodes controls the env...
612. ...ent which flows to the first electrode and passes through the food product placed in the electrode gap. The food product resists the flow of current causing internal heating. The current continues to **flow** to the second electrode and back to the power source to close the circuit. The insulator caps around the electrodes controls the environment within the system. The electrical field strength and the r...
613. ...y delivered on the customer's side of the meter, compared to the overall efficiency when also considering the losses in the power plant and transmission of power. In the energy balance of groundwater **flow** a hydraulic equivalent of Joule's law is used: formula_27 where: Uncle Fester Uncle Fester (Addams) is a member of the fictional Addams Family and has been played by numerous actors, beginning with J...
614. ...size varies widely. Conversion of per-unit quantities to volts, ohms, or amperes requires a knowledge of the base that the per-unit quantities were referenced to. The per-unit system is used in power **flow**, short circuit evaluation, motor starting studies etc. The main idea of a per unit system is to absorb large differences in absolute values into base relationships. Thus, representations of elements...
615. ...as switchgear) and transformers. Many important developments also came from extending innovations in the ICT field to the power engineering field. For example, the development of computers meant load **flow** studies could be run more efficiently allowing for much better planning of power systems. Advances in information technology and telecommunication also allowed for much better remote control of the p...
616. ...rnating current (AC) through the electromagnet. The rapidly alternating magnetic field penetrates the object, generating electric currents inside the conductor called eddy currents. The eddy currents **flow** through the resistance of the material, and heat it by Joule heating. In ferromagnetic and ferrimagnetic materials, such as iron, heat also is generated by magnetic hysteresis losses. The frequency o...
617. ...he magnet moves into the field. As voltage decreases, so does the current, releasing spring tension or the weight of the core and causing it to retract. This closes the switch and allows the power to **flow** once more. If the mechanical regulator design is sensitive to small voltage fluctuations, the motion of the solenoid core can be used to move a selector switch across a range of resistances or transf...
618. ...transistor is used as a "controlled switch" and is operated at either cutoff or saturated state. Hence the power transmitted across the pass device is in discrete pulses rather than a steady current **flow**. Greater efficiency is achieved since the pass device is operated as a low impedance switch. When the pass device is at cutoff, there is no current and it dissipates no power. Again when the pass dev...
619. ...powered from AC power circuits can use silicon controlled rectifiers (SCRs) as the series device. Whenever the output voltage is below the desired value, the SCR is triggered, allowing electricity to **flow** into the load until the AC mains voltage passes through zero (ending the half cycle). SCR regulators have the advantages of being both very efficient and very simple, but because they can not termina...
620. ...58 when Warren Rice filed a patent describing the technology. The technology described by Rice considered charging the hull of the vessel itself. The design was later refined by allowing the water to **flow** through thrusters as described in a later patent by James Meng. The arrangement consists of a water channel open at both ends extending longitudinally through or attached to the ship, a means for pro...
621. ...the reservoirs. The wells act as filters that allow electrons of certain energies to pass through. In general, greater temperature differences between the cavity and the reservoirs increases electron **flow** and output power. An experimental device delivered output power of about 0.18 W/cm for a temperature difference of 1 K, nearly double the power of a quantum dot energy harvester. The extra degrees of...
622. ...continued to produce and finance PV systems in an exponential speed. Photovoltaics are best known as a method for generating electric power by using solar cells to convert energy from the sun into a **flow** of electrons by the photovoltaic effect. Solar cells produce direct current electricity from sunlight which can be used to power equipment or to recharge batteries. The first practical application of...
623. ...dicular to direct sunlight. Bypass diodes are used to circumvent broken or shaded panels and optimize output. These bypass diodes are usually placed along groups of solar cells to create a continuous **flow**. Electrical characteristics include nominal power (P, measured in W), open-circuit voltage (V), short-circuit current (I, measured in amperes), maximum power voltage (V), maximum power current (I), p...
624. ...th the home to pay for the solar panels. Now known as PACE, Property Assessed Clean Energy, 30 U.S. states have duplicated this solution. For behind-the-meter rooftop photovoltaic systems, the energy **flow** becomes two-way. When there is more local generation than consumption, electricity is exported to the grid, allowing for net metering. However, electricity networks traditionally are not designed to...
625. ...ant genus is "Necturus". In contrast to most amphibians, it is entirely aquatic, eating, sleeping, and breeding underwater. Living in caves found in the Dinaric Alps, it is endemic to the waters that **flow** underground through the extensive limestone bedrock of the karst of Central and Southeastern Europe in the basin of the Soča River () near Trieste, Italy, southern Slovenia, southwestern Croatia, and...
626. ...basis, as a secondary business activity. Services to the customers were secondary to the commercial business, with little guarantee of support. The choice of merchant dictated the design, development **flow**, and available techniques to the fabless customer. Merchant foundries might require proprietary and non-portable preparation steps. Foundries concerned with protecting what they considered trade secr...
627. ...dedicated foundry can scale production capacity to a customer's needs, offering low-quantity shuttle services in addition to full-scale production lines. Finally, the dedicated foundry offers a "COT-**flow**" (customer owned tooling) based on industry-standard EDA systems, whereas many IDM merchants required its customers to use proprietary (non-portable) development tools. The COT advantage gave the cus...
628. ...e, a long feeder with a high concentration of DG at the end will experience significant current injection at points where the voltage is normally lowest. If the load is sufficiently low, current will **flow** in the reverse direction (i.e. towards the substation), resulting in a voltage profile that increases with distance from the substation. This inverted voltage profile may confuse conventional control...
629. ...ow let us try to rewrite "only" in terms of the . If this is achievable by a certain change in the parameters, , then the theory is said to be renormalizable. The most important information in the RG **flow** are its fixed points. The possible macroscopic states of the system, at a large scale, are given by this set of fixed points. If these fixed points correspond to a free field theory, the theory is sa...
630. ...above object is momentarily connected through a conductive path to electrical ground, which is a large reservoir of both positive and negative charges, some of the negative charges in the ground will **flow** into the object, under the attraction of the nearby positive charge. When the contact with ground is broken, the object is left with a net negative charge. This method can be demonstrated using a gol...
631. ...aves will come together again. But if an electrical contact is now briefly made between the electroscope terminal and ground, for example by touching the terminal with a finger, this causes charge to **flow** from ground to the terminal, attracted by the charge on the object close to the terminal. This charge neutralizes the charge in the gold leaves, so the leaves come together again. The electroscope no...
632. ...nal spreads into the leaves, causing them to spread apart again. Power rating In electrical engineering and mechanical engineering, the power rating of equipment is the highest power input allowed to **flow** through particular equipment. According to the particular discipline, the term "power" may refer to electrical or mechanical power. A power rating can also involve average and maximum power, which ma...
633. ...t between different forms of electric power, such as transformers, or transport it from one location to another, such as transmission lines, the power rating almost always refers to the maximum power **flow** through the device, not dissipation within it. The usual reason for the limit is heat, and the maximum heat dissipation is calculated as above. Power ratings are usually given in watts for real power...
634. ...that wraps two wires around opposite sides of an iron ring (like a modern toroidal transformer). His assessment of newly-discovered properties of electromagnets suggested that when current started to **flow** in one wire, a sort of wave would travel through the ring and cause some electrical effect on the opposite side. Indeed, a galvanometer's needle measured a transient current (which he called a "wave...
635. ...his turns out to be the molar mass () divided by the valence () A monovalent ion requires one electron for discharge, a divalent ion requires two electrons for discharge and so on. Thus, if electrons **flow**, formula_3 atoms are discharged. Thus, the mass discharged is formula_4 where  Faraday's laws can be summarized by where is the molar mass of the substance (usually given in SI units of grams per mol...
636. ...them. Smaller versions of lightning arresters, also called surge arresters, are devices that are connected between each conductor in power and communications systems and the earth. These prevent the **flow** of the normal power or signal currents to ground, but provide a path over which high-voltage lightning current flows, bypassing the connected equipment. Their purpose is to limit the rise in voltage...
637. ...lightning strike, such as an outdoor television antenna, is attached to the terminal labeled A in the photograph. Terminal E is attached to a long rod buried in the ground. Ordinarily no current will **flow** between the antenna and the ground because there is extremely high resistance between B and C, and also between C and D. The voltage of a lightning strike, however, is many times higher than that nee...
638. ...em (see also, current limiting). To see how the circuit works, assume the voltage has just been applied at V+. Current runs through R1 to the base of Q1, turning it on and causing current to begin to **flow** through the load into the collector of Q1. This same load current then flows out of Q1's emitter and consequently through to ground. When this current through to ground is sufficient to cause a volta...
639. ...ach infinity (because voltage equals current times resistance), and hence the power drawn would also approach infinity. The current of a real current source connected to an open circuit would instead **flow** through the current source's internal parallel impedance (and be wasted as heat). Similarly, "ideal" voltage sources don't exist. Hypothetically connecting one to an "ideal" short circuit would resul...
640. ...e voltage in animal and plant cells. Because the membrane permeability for potassium is much higher than that for other ions, and because of the strong chemical gradient for potassium, potassium ions **flow** from the cytosol out to the extracellular space carrying out positive charge, until their movement is balanced by build-up of negative charge on the inner surface of the membrane. Again, because of t...
641. ...c chemical potential of charge carriers, and the direction of the current under a voltage difference is determined by the universal thermodynamic process in which (given equal temperatures) particles **flow** from high chemical potential to low chemical potential. In other words, the direction of the current in Ohm's law is determined via the thermodynamic arrow of time (the difference in chemical potenti...
642. ...thermopower-versus-temperature function is highly variable under a magnetic field. The Seebeck coefficient of a material corresponds thermodynamically to the amount of entropy "dragged along" by the **flow** of charge inside a material; it is in some sense the entropy per unit charge in the material. Jenny Sparks Jennifer Mary Sparks is a superhero in the Wildstorm comic book universe created by Warren E...
643. ...sessions, with some patients exceeding one mile per walk. Also, Parestep-based walking was reported to result in several medical and psychological benefits, including restoration of near-normal blood **flow** to lower extremities and holding of bone density decline. Walking performance with the Parastep system greatly depends on rigorous upper body conditioning-training and on a completing 3–5 months of a...
644. ...protective devices fail to interrupt the current in a power circuit. In this case electrical breakdown can cause catastrophic failure of electrical equipment, and fire hazards. Electric current is a **flow** of electrically charged particles in a material caused by an electric field, usually created by a voltage across the material. The mobile charged particles which make up an electric current are calle...
645. ...c field) from one end of the insulator to the other, until a continuous conductive path is created through the material between the two contacts applying the voltage difference, allowing a current to **flow** between them, starting an electric arc. Electrical breakdown can also occur without an applied voltage, due to an electromagnetic wave. When a sufficiently intense electromagnetic wave passes through...
646. ...nce, a failure of insulating material causing a short circuit, possibly resulting in a catastrophic failure of the equipment. In power circuits, the sudden drop in resistance causes a high current to **flow** through the material, beginning an electric arc, and if safety devices do not interrupt the current quickly the sudden extreme Joule heating may cause the insulating material or other parts of the ci...
647. ...irst connection when plugged in. It should also be the last to be broken when the plug is removed. A fault in the appliance which causes a live conductor to contact the casing will cause a current to **flow** in the earth conductor. If large enough, this current will trip an over-current device (fuse or circuit breaker [CB]) and disconnect the supply. The disconnection time has to be fast enough not to al...
648. ...l it is mainly potassium (K). The action potential begins with the voltage becoming more positive; this is known as depolarization and is mainly due to the opening of sodium channels that allow Na to **flow** into the cell. After a delay (known as the absolute refractory period), the action potential terminates as potassium channels open, allowing K to leave the cell and causing the membrane potential to...
649. ...). This phase consists of a rapid, positive change in voltage across the cell membrane (depolarization) lasting less than 2 ms in ventricular cells and 10–20 ms in SAN cells. This occurs due to a net **flow** of positive charge into the cell. In non-pacemaker cells (i.e. ventricular cells), this is produced predominantly by the activation of Na channels, which increases the membrane conductance (flow) of...
650. ...net flow of positive charge into the cell. In non-pacemaker cells (i.e. ventricular cells), this is produced predominantly by the activation of Na channels, which increases the membrane conductance (**flow**) of Na (g). These channels are activated when an action potential arrives from a neighbouring cell, through gap junctions. When this happens, the voltage within the cell increases slightly. If this i...
651. ...on of the Na channels by the inner gate (inactivation gate), reducing the movement of sodium into the cell. At the same time potassium channels (called I) open and close rapidly, allowing for a brief **flow** of potassium ions out of the cell, making the membrane potential slightly more negative. This is referred to as a 'notch' on the action potential waveform. There is no obvious phase 1 present in pace...
652. ...the movement of calcium ions into the cell. These calcium ions bind to and open more calcium channels (called ryanodine receptors) located on the sarcoplasmic reticulum within the cell, allowing the **flow** of calcium out of the SR. These calcium ions are responsible for the contraction of the heart. Calcium also activates chloride channels called I, which allow Cl to enter the cell. Increased calcium c...
653. ...below). These sodium channels are voltage-dependent, opening rapidly due to depolarization of the membrane, which usually occurs from neighboring cells, through gap junctions. They allow for a rapid **flow** of sodium into the cell, depolarizing the membrane completely and initiating an action potential. As the membrane potential increases, these channels then close and lock (become inactive). Due to the...
654. ...relative refractory period). The two main types of potassium channels in cardiac cells are inward rectifiers and voltage-gated potassium channels. Inwardly rectifying potassium channels (K favour the **flow** of K into the cell. This influx of potassium, however, is larger when the membrane potential is more negative than the equilibrium potential for K (~-90 mV). As the membrane potential becomes more po...
655. ...en the membrane potential is more negative than the equilibrium potential for K (~-90 mV). As the membrane potential becomes more positive (i.e. during cell stimulation from a neighbouring cell), the **flow** of potassium into the cell via the K decreases. Therefore, K is responsible for maintaining the resting membrane potential and initiating the depolarization phase. However, as the membrane potential...
656. ...e potential and initiating the depolarization phase. However, as the membrane potential continues to become more positive, the channel begins to allow the passage of K "out" of the cell. This outward **flow** of potassium ions at the more positive membrane potentials means that the K can also aid the final stages of repolarisation. The voltage-gated potassium channels (K) are activated by depolarization....
657. ...for inhibitory), which is made up of 3 subunits (α, β and γ) which, when activated, separate from the receptor. The β and γ subunits activate a special set of potassium channels, increasing potassium **flow** out of the cell and decreasing membrane potential, meaning that the pacemaker cells take longer to reach their threshold value. The G-protein also inhibits the cAMP pathway therefore reducing the sym...
658. ...tion of laser light followed by spontaneous emission of light. It was first reported by Zare and coworkers in 1968. LIF is used for studying structure of molecules, detection of selective species and **flow** visualization and measurements. The wavelength is often selected to be the one at which the species has its largest cross section. The excited species will after some time, usually in the order of fe...
659. ...tudy of the electronic structure of molecules and their interactions. It has also been successfully applied for quantitative measurement of concentrations in fields like combustion, plasma, spray and **flow** phenomena (such as molecular tagging velocimetry), in some cases visualizing concentrations down to nanomolar levels. LED-induced fluorescence has been used in situ to delineate aromatic hydrocarbon...
660. ...d krypton is expensive. Other gases such as mercury vapor can be used. Molecular gases may be dissociated by the plasma. Placing a finger tip on the glass creates an attractive spot for the energy to **flow** because the conductive human body (having an internal resistance less than 1000 ohms) is more easily polarized than the dielectric material around the electrode (i.e. the gas within the ball) providi...
661. ...capacity of the large conducting body to accept radio frequency energy is greater than that of the surrounding air. The energy available to the filaments of plasma within the ball will preferentially **flow** toward the better acceptor. This flow also causes a single filament, from the inner ball to the point of contact, to become brighter and thinner. The filament is brighter because there is more curren...
662. ...to accept radio frequency energy is greater than that of the surrounding air. The energy available to the filaments of plasma within the ball will preferentially flow toward the better acceptor. This **flow** also causes a single filament, from the inner ball to the point of contact, to become brighter and thinner. The filament is brighter because there is more current flowing through it and into the huma...
663. ...aphy, electric currents travel three-dimensionally along the path of least resistivity (figure 1), which results in partial loss of the electric current applied (impedance transfer, e.g. due to blood **flow** through the transverse plane). This is one of the reasons why image reconstruction in absolute EIT is so complex, since there is usually more than just one solution for image reconstruction of a thre...
664. ...ls of perfusion. Although promising studies have been published on this topic, this technology is still at its beginnings. A breakthrough would allow simultaneous visualization of both regional blood **flow** and regional ventilation – enabling clinicians to locate and react upon physiological shunts caused by regional mismatches of lung ventilation and perfusion with associated hypoxemia. EIT is being in...
665. ...tage measurement technique, designed to improve process control. The high frame rate of the v5r (over 650 frames per second) means that it can be used to monitor rapidly evolving processes or dynamic **flow** conditions. The data it provides can be used to determine the flow profile of complex multiphase processes; allowing engineers to discriminate between laminar flow, plug flow and other important flow...
666. ...e high frame rate of the v5r (over 650 frames per second) means that it can be used to monitor rapidly evolving processes or dynamic flow conditions. The data it provides can be used to determine the **flow** profile of complex multiphase processes; allowing engineers to discriminate between laminar flow, plug flow and other important flow conditions for deeper understanding and improved process control....
667. ...pidly evolving processes or dynamic flow conditions. The data it provides can be used to determine the flow profile of complex multiphase processes; allowing engineers to discriminate between laminar **flow**, plug flow and other important flow conditions for deeper understanding and improved process control. When used for concentration measurements, the ability to measure full impedance across a wide ran...
668. ...ing processes or dynamic flow conditions. The data it provides can be used to determine the flow profile of complex multiphase processes; allowing engineers to discriminate between laminar flow, plug **flow** and other important flow conditions for deeper understanding and improved process control. When used for concentration measurements, the ability to measure full impedance across a wide range of phase...
669. ...flow conditions. The data it provides can be used to determine the flow profile of complex multiphase processes; allowing engineers to discriminate between laminar flow, plug flow and other important **flow** conditions for deeper understanding and improved process control. When used for concentration measurements, the ability to measure full impedance across a wide range of phase ratios means the v5r is...
670. ...studio equipment, or home component audio, video, and computer systems. This creates inadvertent closed loops in the ground wiring circuit, which can allow stray 50/60 Hz AC current to be induced and **flow** through the ground conductors of signal cables. The voltage drops in the ground system caused by these currents are added to the signal path, introducing noise and hum into the output. The loops can...
671. ...p at data frequencies by fitting small ferrite cores around the connecting cables near each end or just inside the equipment boundary. These form a common-mode choke which inhibits unbalanced current **flow**, without affecting the differential signal. Coaxial cables used at radio frequencies may be wound several times through a ferrite core to add a useful amount of common-mode inductance. This limits th...
672. ...without affecting the differential signal. Coaxial cables used at radio frequencies may be wound several times through a ferrite core to add a useful amount of common-mode inductance. This limits the **flow** of unwanted high-frequency common-mode current along the cable shield. Where no power need be transmitted, only digital data, the use of fiber optics can remove many ground loop problems, and sometim...
673. ...mps. Electrocytes become polar when triggered by a signal from the nervous system. Neurons release the neurotransmitter acetylcholine; this triggers acetylcholine receptors to open and sodium ions to **flow** into the electrocytes. The influx of positively charged sodium ions causes the cell membrane to depolarize slightly. This in turn causes the gated sodium channels at the anterior end of the cell to o...
674. ...uency (RF) energy as heat by design. Ideal inductors, on the other hand, have no resistance and hence do not dissipate energy as heat. Ideal inductors only have inductive reactance, which reduces the **flow** of high-frequency signals by returning some of their energy back towards the signal source (possibly reducing the amount of power drawn) rather than dissipating that energy as heat (as done by the re...
675. ...emotional arousal and sympathetic activity, although the electrical change alone does not identify which specific emotion is being elicited. These autonomic sympathetic changes alter sweat and blood **flow**, which in turn affects GSR and GSP (Galvanic skin potential). The amount of sweat glands varies across the human body, being highest in hand and foot regions (200–600 sweat glands per cm). The respon...
676. ...capacitor to a spring. The term is also used for analogous quantities in other energy domains. In the mechanical domain, it corresponds to stiffness, and it is the inverse of compliance in the fluid **flow** domain, especially in physiology. It is also the name of the generalized quantity in bond-graph analysis and other schemes that analyze systems across multiple domains. The definition of capacitance...
677. ...ement" whose rate of change is equivalent to the current. This displacement was seen as an electric strain, like mechanical strain in a compressed spring. Heaviside denied the idea of physical charge **flow** and accumulation on capacitor plates, replacing it with the concept of the divergence of the displacement field at the plates, which was numerically equal to the charge collected in the flow view. In...
678. ...l charge flow and accumulation on capacitor plates, replacing it with the concept of the divergence of the displacement field at the plates, which was numerically equal to the charge collected in the **flow** view. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, some authors adopted Heaviside's terms "elastance" and "elastivity." Today, however, the reciprocal terms "capacitance" and "permittivity" are almost...
679. ...es its response to external stimuli, usually as applied fields or forces. They are combined with other equations governing physical laws to solve physical problems; for example in fluid mechanics the **flow** of a fluid in a pipe, in solid state physics the response of a crystal to an electric field, or in structural analysis, the connection between applied stresses or loads to strains or deformations. So...
680. ...In the TN-S system, separate neutral and protective earth conductors are installed between the equipment and the source of supply (generator or electric utility transformer). Normal circuit currents **flow** only in the neutral, and the protective earth conductor bonds all equipment cases to earth to intercept any leakage current due to insulation failure. The neutral conductor is connected to earth at t...
681. ...nt flowing through the neutral-to-earth link and use this as the basis for neutral fault protection. The connection between neutral and earth allows any phase-to-earth fault to develop enough current **flow** to "trip" the circuit overcurrent protection device. In some jurisdictions, calculations are required to ensure the fault loop impedance is low enough so that fault current will trip the protection (...
682. ...the neutral carries no current. The neutral carries current if the loads on each phase are not identical. In some jurisdictions, the neutral is allowed to be reduced in size if no unbalanced current **flow** is expected. If the neutral is smaller than the phase conductors, it can be overloaded if a large unbalanced load occurs. The current drawn by non-linear loads, such as fluorescent & HID lighting and...
683. ...through a conductive tube (called a "liner") filled with gas. This approach is known as magnetized liner inertial fusion, or MagLIF. The compression of a MagLIF Z-pinch is limited because the current **flow** is highly unstable and rotates along the cylinder which causes twisting of the imploding tube therefore decreasing the quality of the compression. The Z machine has also conducted experiments with ar...
684. ...irst nodal point (Q) when the primary current momentarily went to zero after all the energy had been transferred to the secondary winding "(see lower graph)". Since without the spark no current could **flow** in the primary circuit, this effectively uncoupled the secondary from the primary circuit, allowing the secondary resonant circuit and antenna to oscillate completely free of the primary circuit afte...
685. ...s, oxidation on metal surfaces, and mechanical effects that occur as different metals expand at different rates with increases in temperature. Unlike copper, aluminium has a tendency to creep or cold-**flow** under pressure, so older plain steel screw clamped connections could become loose over time. Newer electrical devices designed for aluminium conductors have features intended to compensate for this e...
686. ...od for systems that contain only magnetic components, but for modelling a system that contains both electrical and magnetic parts it has serious drawbacks. It does not properly model power and energy **flow** between the electrical and magnetic domains. This is because electrical resistance will dissipate energy whereas magnetic reluctance stores it and returns it later. An alternative model that correctl...
687. ...ctrical and magnetic domains. This is because electrical resistance will dissipate energy whereas magnetic reluctance stores it and returns it later. An alternative model that correctly models energy **flow** is the gyrator–capacitor model. The resistance–reluctance model for magnetic circuits is a lumped-element model that makes electrical resistance analogous to magnetic reluctance. In electrical circui...
688. ...r as an empirical equation that works for some materials, or it may serve as a definition of reluctance. Hopkinson's law is not a correct analogy with Ohm's law in terms of modelling power and energy **flow**. In particular, there is no power dissipation associated with a magnetic reluctance in the same way as there is a dissipation in an electrical resistance. The magnetic resistance that is a true analo...
689. ...t theory. This is mathematical analogy and not a physical one. Objects in the same row have the same mathematical role; the physics of the two theories are very different. For example, current is the **flow** of electrical charge, while magnetic flux is not the flow of any quantity. The resistance–reluctance model has limitations. Electric and magnetic circuits are only superficially similar because of th...
690. ...one. Objects in the same row have the same mathematical role; the physics of the two theories are very different. For example, current is the flow of electrical charge, while magnetic flux is not the **flow** of any quantity. The resistance–reluctance model has limitations. Electric and magnetic circuits are only superficially similar because of the similarity between Hopkinson's law and Ohm's law. Magnet...
691. ...egral of evaluates to the total current passing through the surface. This is equal to the excitation, , which also measures current passing through the surface, thereby verifying that the net current **flow** through a surface is zero ampere-turns in a closed system that conserves energy. More complex magnetic systems, where the flux is not confined to a simple loop, must be analysed from first principles...
692. ...choline vesicles, acetylcholine diffuses across the neuromuscular junction and binds to ligand-gated nicotinic receptors (non-selective cation channels) on the muscle fiber. This allows for increased **flow** of sodium and potassium ions, causing depolarization of the sarcolemma (muscle cell membrane).  The small depolarization associated with the release of acetylcholine from an individual synaptic vesic...
693. ...increasing the end-plate potential (EPPs) from about -100mV up to the threshold potential of -60mV, at which level the voltage-gated ion channels in the postsynaptic membrane open, allowing a sudden **flow** of sodium ions from the synapse and a sharp spike in depolarization. This depolarization voltage spike triggers an action potential which propagates down the postsynaptic membrane leading to muscle c...
694. ...y, thermal energy, and particle acceleration. Magnetic reconnection involves plasma flows at a substantial fraction of the Alfvén wave speed, which is the fundamental speed for mechanical information **flow** in a magnetized plasma. The concept of magnetic reconnection was developed in parallel by researchers working in solar physics and in the interaction between the solar wind and magnetized planets. Th...
695. ...nomalous resistivity, is still too small compared with the observations. In stochastic reconnection, magnetic field has a small scale random component arising because of turbulence. For the turbulent **flow** in the reconnection region, a model for magnetohydrodynamic turbulence should be used such as the model developed by Goldreich and Sridhar in 1995. This stochastic model is independent of small scale...
696. ...de portable electrical devices practical. The zinc–carbon cell (as it came to be known) is still manufactured today. A dry cell uses a paste electrolyte, with only enough moisture to allow current to **flow**. Unlike a wet cell, a dry cell can operate in any orientation without spilling, as it contains no free liquid, making it suitable for portable equipment. By comparison, the first wet cells were typic...
697. ...he dry cell until the development of the gel battery. Wet cells have continued to be used for high-drain applications, such as starting internal combustion engines, because inhibiting the electrolyte **flow** tends to reduce the current capability. A common dry cell is the zinc–carbon cell, sometimes called the dry Leclanché cell, with a nominal voltage of 1.5 volts, the same as the alkaline cell (since b...
698. ...l factors may be operating simultaneously. For example, the addition of solutes lowers the potential (negative vector), while an increase in pressure increases the potential (positive vector). If the **flow** is not restricted, water will move from an area of higher water potential to an area that is lower potential. A common example is water with dissolved salts, such as seawater or the fluid in a living...
699. ...mmon example is water with dissolved salts, such as seawater or the fluid in a living cell. These solutions have negative water potential, relative to the pure water reference. With no restriction on **flow**, water will move from the locus of greater potential (pure water) to the locus of lesser (the solution); flow proceeds until the difference in potential is equalized or balanced by another water pote...
700. ...ve negative water potential, relative to the pure water reference. With no restriction on flow, water will move from the locus of greater potential (pure water) to the locus of lesser (the solution); **flow** proceeds until the difference in potential is equalized or balanced by another water potential factor, such as pressure or elevation. Many different factors may affect the total water potential, and...
701. ...l factor, such as pressure or elevation. Many different factors may affect the total water potential, and the sum of these potentials determines the overall water potential and the direction of water **flow**: where: All of these factors are quantified as potential energies per unit volume, and different subsets of these terms may be used for particular applications (e.g., plants or soils). Different cond...
702. ...ntial (formula_14) of the surrounding environment. This can be the case for marine organisms living in sea water and halophytic plants growing in saline environments. In the case of a plant cell, the **flow** of water out of the cell may eventually cause the plasma membrane to pull away from the cell wall, leading to plasmolysis. Most plants, however, have the ability to increase solute inside the cell to...
703. ...ut of the cell may eventually cause the plasma membrane to pull away from the cell wall, leading to plasmolysis. Most plants, however, have the ability to increase solute inside the cell to drive the **flow** of water into the cell and maintain turgor. This effect can be used to power an osmotic power plant. A soil solution also experiences osmotic potential. The osmotic potential is made possible due to...
704. ...Root water potential must be more negative than the soil, and the stem water potential must be an intermediate lower value than the roots but higher than the leaf water potential to create a passive **flow** of water from the soil to the roots, up the stem, to the leaves and then into the atmosphere. A tensiometer, electrical resistance gypsum block, neutron probes, or time-domain reflectometry (TDR) can...
705. ...uch as CNC hardware or computers, start the pilot arc by other means. The nozzle and electrode are in contact. The nozzle is the cathode, and the electrode is the anode. When the plasma gas begins to **flow**, the nozzle is blown forward. A third, less common method is capacitive discharge into the primary circuit via a silicon controlled rectifier. Analog plasma cutters, typically requiring more than 2 k...
706. ...mains circuits (100 to 250 VAC), which carry the highest voltages they normally encounter, to be "high voltage". Voltages over approximately 50 volts can usually cause dangerous amounts of current to **flow** through a human being who touches two points of a circuit, so safety standards are more restrictive around such circuits. In automotive engineering, high voltage is defined as voltage in range 30 to...
707. ...). A negative lightning strike typically lasts for only tens of microseconds, but multiple strikes are common. A positive lightning stroke is typically a single event, but the larger peak current may **flow** for hundreds of milliseconds, making it considerably more energetic than negative lightning. The dielectric breakdown strength of dry air, at Standard Temperature and Pressure (STP), between spherica...
708. ...arkover voltage is around 327 volts, as noted by Friedrich Paschen. While lower voltages do not, in general, jump a gap that is present before the voltage is applied, interrupting an existing current **flow** with a gap often produces a low-voltage spark or arc. As the contacts are separated, a few small points of contact become the last to separate. The current becomes constricted to these small "hot spo...
709. ...is mechanism in a darkened room. The ionized air and metal vapour (from the contacts) form plasma, which temporarily bridges the widening gap. If the power supply and load allow sufficient current to **flow**, a self-sustaining arc may form. Once formed, an arc may be extended to a significant length before breaking the circuit. Attempting to open an inductive circuit often forms an arc, since the inducta...
710. ...rces below 40 V can be lethal. Accidental contact with any high voltage supplying sufficient energy may result in severe injury or death. This can occur as a person's body provides a path for current **flow**, causing tissue damage and heart failure. Other injuries can include burns from the arc generated by the accidental contact. These burns can be especially dangerous if the victim's airway is affected...
711. ...oor. The voltage can be in the thousand-volt range, but the average current is low. The standard precautions to avoid injury include working under conditions that would avoid having electrical energy **flow** through the body, particularly through the heart region, such as between the arms, or between an arm and a leg. Electricity can flow between two conductors in high voltage equipment and the body can...
712. ...working under conditions that would avoid having electrical energy flow through the body, particularly through the heart region, such as between the arms, or between an arm and a leg. Electricity can **flow** between two conductors in high voltage equipment and the body can complete the circuit. To avoid that from happening, the worker should wear insulating clothing such as rubber gloves, use insulated t...
713. ...om happening, the worker should wear insulating clothing such as rubber gloves, use insulated tools, and avoid touching the equipment with more than one hand at a time. An electrical current can also **flow** between the equipment and the earth ground. To prevent that, the worker should stand on an insulated surface such as on rubber mats. Safety equipment is tested regularly to ensure it is still protect...
714. ...bably) representing different temperatures.  Electric flux In electromagnetism, electric flux is the measure of the electric field through a given surface, although an electric field in itself cannot **flow**. The electric field E can exert a force on an electric charge at any point in space. The electric field is the gradient of the potential. An electric charge, such as a single electron in space, has a...
715. ...coulomb (). Thus, the unit of electric flux expressed in terms of SI base units is . Its dimensional formula is formula_4. Permeance Permeance, in general, is the degree to which a material admits a **flow** of matter or energy. Permeance is usually represented by a curly capital P: . In electromagnetism, permeance is the inverse of reluctance. In a magnetic circuit, permeance is a measure of the quantit...
716. ...r example, in metals one or more of the negatively charged electrons in each atom, called conduction electrons, are free to move about the crystal lattice. An electric field causes a large current to **flow**, so metals have low resistivity, making them good conductors. In contrast in materials like plastics and ceramics all the electrons are tightly bound to atoms, so under normal conditions there are ve...
717. ...and ceramics all the electrons are tightly bound to atoms, so under normal conditions there are very few mobile charge carriers in the material. Applying a voltage causes only a very small current to **flow**, giving the material a very high resistivity, and these are classed as insulators. However, if a strong enough electric field is applied, all insulators become conductors. If the voltage applied acro...
718. ...iece of insulator is increased, at a certain electric field strength the number of charge carriers in the material suddenly increases enormously and its resistivity drops, causing a strong current to **flow** through it. This is called electrical breakdown. Breakdown occurs when the electric field becomes strong enough to pull electrons from the molecules of the material, ionizing them. The released elect...
719. ...ed air or another gas. An undesirable arc can also occur when a high-voltage switch is opened and is extinguished in similar ways. Modern devices use sulphur hexafluoride at high pressure in a nozzle **flow** between separated electrodes within a pressurized vessel. The arc current is interrupted at the moment within an AC cycle when the current goes to zero and the highly electronegative SF6 ions quickly...
720. ...ll's membrane potential to very quickly return to, and past the resting membrane potential, which causes the hyperpolarization due to the potassium channels closing slowly, allowing more potassium to **flow** through after the resting membrane potential has been reached. Following the action potential, characteristically generated by the influx of Na through voltage gated Na channels, there is a period of...
721. ...metal such as cast iron or some stainless steels. The iron in the pot concentrates the current to produce heat in the metal. If the metal is too thin, or does not provide enough resistance to current **flow**, heating will not be effective. Induction tops typically will not heat copper or aluminum vessels because the magnetic field cannot produce a concentrated current, but cast iron, carbon steel and sta...
722. ...ld be as little electrical resistance in the coil and as much as possible in the pan so that most of the heat is developed in the pan. At the frequencies typically used in induction cooking, currents **flow** mostly on the outside of conductors (the skin effect). Reducing the skin effect in the coil reduces its resistance and the heat wasted in the coil. Therefore, the coil is made from litz wire, which i...
723. ...he Speed Force to process more information, and make even quicker decisions, to the point where he feels like he can see everything before it happens. Barry also developed the ability to speed up the **flow** of time around him, which he used to negate the powers of Zoom, who was able to slow down time. In terms of DC's internal lexicon, Barry is classified as a meta-human: A human being who possesses ext...
724. ...d than action potentials. This difference in information rates can be up to almost an order of magnitude greater for electrotonic potentials. Cable theory can be useful for understanding how currents **flow** through the axons of a neuron. In 1855, Lord Kelvin devised this theory as a way to describe electrical properties of transatlantic telegraph cables. Almost a century later in 1946, Hodgkin and Rusht...
725. ...tor and the neutral return conductor through a current transformer, with the secondary coil connected to a trip device. Under normal conditions, the current in the two circuit wires will be equal and **flow** in opposite directions, resulting in zero net current through the CT and no current in the secondary coil. If the supply current is redirected downstream into the third (ground) circuit conductor (e....
726. ...cts a 120-volt conductor), or into earth ground (e.g., if a person contacts a 120-volt conductor), the neutral return current will be less than the supply current, resulting in a positive net current **flow** through the CT. This net current flow will induce current in the secondary coil, which will cause the trip device to operate and de-energize the circuit - typically within 0.2 seconds. The burden (lo...
727. ...th ground (e.g., if a person contacts a 120-volt conductor), the neutral return current will be less than the supply current, resulting in a positive net current flow through the CT. This net current **flow** will induce current in the secondary coil, which will cause the trip device to operate and de-energize the circuit - typically within 0.2 seconds. The burden (load) impedance should not exceed the sp...
728. ...n low frequency effects and effects in humans was sparse. A 2012 study of low-frequency radiation on humans found "no evidence for acute effects of short-term mobile phone radiation on cerebral blood **flow**". There have been rumors that mobile phone use can cause cancer, but this has not been conclusively proven. The CDC states that no scientific evidence definitively answers whether mobile phone use ca...
729. ...span and weighed 2.45 kg. The craft was catapult-launched using an elastic band, with the EAD system sustaining the aircraft in flight at low level. Ionic air propulsion is a technique for creating a **flow** of air through electrical energy, without any moving parts. Because of this it is sometimes described as a "solid-state" drive. It is based on the principle of electrohydrodynamics. In its basic form...
730. ...rately saturated by a direct electric current in a control winding. Once saturated, the inductance of the saturable reactor drops dramatically. This decreases inductive reactance and allows increased **flow** of the alternating current (AC). Saturable reactors provide a very simple means to remotely and proportionally control the AC through a load such as an incandescent lamp; the AC current is roughly pr...
731. ...echnology relies on an unstable mechanical configuration that forms part of the electrical circuit. When movement or vibration occurs, the unstable portion of the circuit moves and breaks the current **flow**, which produces an alarm. The medium transmitting the vibration must be correctly selected for the specific sensor as they are best suited to different types of structures and configurations. These s...
732. ...namics and fluid dynamics mainly focused on the fluid motion induced by electric fields. EHD, in its simplest form, involves the application of an electric field to a fluid medium, resulting in fluid **flow**, form, or properties manipulation. These mechanisms arise from the interaction between the electric fields and charged particles or polarization effects within the fluid. The generation and movement...
733. ...nergy into kinetic energy, and "vice versa". In the first instance, shaped electrostatic fields (ESF's) create hydrostatic pressure (HSP, or motion) in dielectric media. When such media are fluids, a **flow** is produced. If the dielectric is a vacuum or a solid, no flow is produced. Such flow can be directed against the electrodes, generally to move the electrodes. In such case, the moving structure acts...
734. ...nce, shaped electrostatic fields (ESF's) create hydrostatic pressure (HSP, or motion) in dielectric media. When such media are fluids, a flow is produced. If the dielectric is a vacuum or a solid, no **flow** is produced. Such flow can be directed against the electrodes, generally to move the electrodes. In such case, the moving structure acts as an electric motor. Practical fields of interest of EHD are...
735. ...ic fields (ESF's) create hydrostatic pressure (HSP, or motion) in dielectric media. When such media are fluids, a flow is produced. If the dielectric is a vacuum or a solid, no flow is produced. Such **flow** can be directed against the electrodes, generally to move the electrodes. In such case, the moving structure acts as an electric motor. Practical fields of interest of EHD are the common air ioniser,...
736. ...s an electric motor. Practical fields of interest of EHD are the common air ioniser, electrohydrodynamic thrusters and EHD cooling systems. In the second instance, the converse takes place. A powered **flow** of medium within a shaped electrostatic field adds energy to the system which is picked up as a potential difference by electrodes. In such case, the structure acts as an electrical generator. Electr...
737. ...was also noticed and publicized in the 1920s by Thomas Townsend Brown which he called the Biefeld–Brown effect, although he seems to have misidentified it as an electric field acting on gravity. The **flow** rate in such a mechanism is linear in the electric field. Electrokinesis is of considerable practical importance in microfluidics, because it offers a way to manipulate and convey fluids in microsyst...
738. ...eplacing batteries for devices such as mobile phones or calculators which would be charged up by simply compressing water to high pressure. Pressure would then be released on demand, for the fluid to **flow** through micro-channels. When water travels, or streams over a surface, the ions in the water "rub" against the solid, leaving the surface slightly charged. Kinetic energy from the moving ions would t...
739. ...electrical energy. Although the power generated from a single channel is extremely small, millions of parallel micro-channels can be used to increase the power output. This streaming potential, water-**flow** phenomenon was discovered in 1859 by German physicist Georg Hermann Quincke.  The fluid flows in microfluidic and nanofluidic devices are often stable and strongly damped by viscous forces (with Reyn...
740. ...rces (with Reynolds numbers of order unity or smaller). However, heterogeneous ionic conductivity fields in the presence of applied electric fields can, under certain conditions, generate an unstable **flow** field owing to electrokinetic instabilities (EKI). Conductivity gradients are prevalent in on-chip electrokinetic processes such as preconcentration methods (e.g. field amplified sample stacking and...
741. ...nts that results in an electric body force. This coupling results in an electric body force in the bulk liquid, outside the electric double layer, that can generate temporal, convective, and absolute **flow** instabilities. Electrokinetic flows with conductivity gradients become unstable when the electroviscous stretching and folding of conductivity interfaces grows faster than the dissipative effect of m...
742. ...ty interfaces grows faster than the dissipative effect of molecular diffusion. Since these flows are characterized by low velocities and small length scales, the Reynolds number is below 0.01 and the **flow** is "laminar". The onset of instability in these flows is best described as an electric "Rayleigh number". Liquids can be printed at nanoscale by pyro-EHD. Etymology of electricity The word "electrici...
743. ...harge. Instead they speak of electricity as electromagnetic energy. The definition has drifted even further, and many authors now use the word "electricity" to mean electric current (amperes), energy **flow** (watts), electrical potential (volts), or electric force. Others refer to any electrical phenomena as kinds of electricity. These multiple definitions are probably the reason that "quantity of electr...
744. ...ctricity. These multiple definitions are probably the reason that "quantity of electricity" has fallen into disfavor among scientists. Physics textbooks no longer define "quantity of electricity" or "**flow** of electricity". "Quantity of electricity" is now regarded as an archaic usage, and it has slowly been replaced by the terms "charge of electricity", then "quantity of electric charge", and today sim...
745. ...conduct any current, however, due to attraction of dissimilar charges, the positive side of the voltage source draws free electrons (majority carriers in the n-region) away from the P-N junction. The **flow** of these electrons results in the creation of additional cations, thus widening the depletion region.  The widening of the depletion region serves as a barrier which blocks charge carriers from movin...
746. ...system configured on this type of platform can stand alone as a complete measurement and automation solution, with the master unit controlling sourcing, measuring, pass/fail decisions, test sequence **flow** control, binning, and the component handler or prober. Support for dedicated trigger lines means that synchronous operations between multiple instruments equipped with onboard Test Script Processors...
747. ...the Hardy space, Bloch space, Bergman space and Sobolev space. Plasma torch A plasma torch (also known as a plasma arc, plasma gun, plasma cutter, or plasmatron) is a device for generating a directed **flow** of plasma. The plasma jet can be used for applications including plasma cutting, plasma arc welding, plasma spraying, and plasma gasification for waste disposal. Thermal plasmas are generated in plas...
748. ...fluids have to be specifically matched to avoid excessive electrode corrosion or oxidation (and contamination of materials to be treated), while maintaining ample power and function. Furthermore, the **flow**-rate of the carrier gas can be raised to promote a larger, more projecting plasma jet, provided that the arc current is sufficiently increased; and vice versa. The plasma flame of a real plasma torch...
749. ...the end points is increased to infinity, the variation of an adiabatic invariant between the two end points goes to zero. In thermodynamics, an adiabatic process is a change that occurs without heat **flow**; it may be slow or fast. A reversible adiabatic process is an adiabatic process that occurs slowly compared to the time to reach equilibrium. In a reversible adiabatic process, the system is in equil...
750. ...orbit. In thermodynamics, adiabatic changes are those that do not increase the entropy. They occur slowly in comparison to the other characteristic timescales of the system of interest and allow heat **flow** only between objects at the same temperature. For isolated systems, an adiabatic change allows no heat to flow in or out. If a container with an ideal gas is expanded instantaneously, the temperature...
751. ...mparison to the other characteristic timescales of the system of interest and allow heat flow only between objects at the same temperature. For isolated systems, an adiabatic change allows no heat to **flow** in or out. If a container with an ideal gas is expanded instantaneously, the temperature of the gas doesn't change at all, because none of the molecules slow down. The molecules keep their kinetic en...
752. ...its pressure, temperature and heat intensely and thus improves arc stability, arc shape and heat transfer characteristics. Plasma arcs are formed using gas in two forms; laminar (low pressure and low **flow**) and turbulent (high pressure and high flow). The gases used are argon, helium, hydrogen or a mixture of these. In the case of plasma welding, laminar flow (low pressure and low flow of plasma gas) i...
753. ...and thus improves arc stability, arc shape and heat transfer characteristics. Plasma arcs are formed using gas in two forms; laminar (low pressure and low flow) and turbulent (high pressure and high **flow**). The gases used are argon, helium, hydrogen or a mixture of these. In the case of plasma welding, laminar flow (low pressure and low flow of plasma gas) is employed to ensure that the molten metal i...
754. ...in two forms; laminar (low pressure and low flow) and turbulent (high pressure and high flow). The gases used are argon, helium, hydrogen or a mixture of these. In the case of plasma welding, laminar **flow** (low pressure and low flow of plasma gas) is employed to ensure that the molten metal is not blown out of the weld zone. The non-transferred arc (pilot arc) is employed during plasma-welding to initi...
755. ...pressure and low flow) and turbulent (high pressure and high flow). The gases used are argon, helium, hydrogen or a mixture of these. In the case of plasma welding, laminar flow (low pressure and low **flow** of plasma gas) is employed to ensure that the molten metal is not blown out of the weld zone. The non-transferred arc (pilot arc) is employed during plasma-welding to initiate the welding process. Th...
756. ...elding-mesh using micro plasma, there can be an option given to have a continuous pilot arc. A transferred arc possesses high energy density and plasma jet velocity. Depending on the current used and **flow** of gas, it can be employed to cut and melt metals. Microplasma uses current between 0.1 and 10 amps and is used for foils, bellow, and thin sheets. This is an autogenous process and normally does not...
757. ...equipment needed in plasma arc welding along with their functions are as follows: Typical welding parameters for plasma arc welding are as follows: Current 50 to 350 amps, voltage 27 to 31 volts, gas **flow** rates 2 to 40 liters/minute (lower range for orifice gas and higher range for outer shielding gas), direct current electrode negative (DCEN) is normally employed for plasma arc welding except for the...
758. ...cking. Also, the ratio of the depth of penetration to the width of the weld is much higher, resulting narrower weld and heat-affected zone. As the weld progresses, base metal ahead the keyhole melts, **flow** around the same solidifies and forms the weld bead. Key-holing aids deep penetration at faster speeds and produces high-quality bead. While welding thicker pieces, in laying others than root run, and...
759. ...t commercial metals and alloys). Difficult-to-weld in metals by PAW include bronze, cast iron, lead and magnesium. Several basic PAW process variations are possible by varying the current, plasma gas-**flow** rate, and the orifice diameter, including: At least two separate (and possibly three) flows of gas are used in PAW: These gases can all be same, or of differing composition. Depending upon the design...
760. ...(e.g., orifice diameter), electrode design, gas type and velocities, and the current levels, several variations of the plasma process are achievable, including: When used for cutting, the plasma gas **flow** is increased so that the deeply penetrating plasma jet cuts through the material and molten material is removed as cutting dross. PAC differs from oxy-fuel cutting in that the plasma process operates...
761. ...ial applications as mechanical actuators. Ionic EAPs are polymers in which actuation is caused by the displacement of ions inside the polymer. Only a few volts are needed for actuation, but the ionic **flow** implies that higher electrical power is needed for actuation, and energy is needed to keep the actuator at a given position. Examples of ionic EAPs are conductive polymers, ionic polymer-metal compos...
762. ...it into potential energy which can later be recovered. An ideal spring will use all the potential energy to regain its original shape (no damping), while a liquid will use all the potential energy to **flow**, never returning to its original position or shape (high damping). A viscoeleastic polymer will exhibit a combination of both types of behavior. DETA is similar to DMTA, but instead of an alternating...
763. ...nents, the hydrogel platform provides also chemical sensors and a novel class of microfluidic components, the chemical transistors (also referred as chemostat valves). These devices regulate a liquid **flow** if a threshold concentration of a certain chemical is reached. Chemical transistors form the basis of microchemomechanical fluidic integrated circuits. "Chemical ICs" process exclusively chemical inf...
764. ...tform is based on ionomeric materials. Pumps made from that material could offer low voltage (battery) operation, extremely low noise signature, high system efficiency, and highly accurate control of **flow** rate. Another technology that can benefit from the unique properties of EAP actuators is optical membranes. Due to their low modulus, the mechanical impedance of the actuators, they are well-matched...
765. ...re limitations on the density and type of field used in this example. The amount of power that can be extracted is proportional to the cross-sectional area of the tube and the speed of the conductive **flow**. The conductive substance is also cooled and slowed by this process. MHD generators typically reduce the temperature of the conductive substance from plasma temperatures to just over 1000 °C. The mai...
766. ...ese shorts of the Faraday current induce a powerful magnetic field within the fluid, but in a chord of a circle at right angles to the Faraday current. This secondary, induced field makes the current **flow** in a rainbow shape between the first and last electrodes. Losses are less than in a Faraday generator, and voltages are higher because there is less shorting of the final induced current.  However, t...
767. ...Losses are less than in a Faraday generator, and voltages are higher because there is less shorting of the final induced current.  However, this design has problems because the speed of the material **flow** requires the middle electrodes to be offset to "catch" the Faraday currents. As the load varies, the fluid flow speed varies, misaligning the Faraday current with its intended electrodes, and making...
768. ...l induced current.  However, this design has problems because the speed of the material flow requires the middle electrodes to be offset to "catch" the Faraday currents. As the load varies, the fluid **flow** speed varies, misaligning the Faraday current with its intended electrodes, and making the generator's efficiency very sensitive to its load. The third and, currently, the most efficient design is th...
769. ...apped around the edge. (The ducts are not shown.) The magnetic excitation field is made by a pair of circular Helmholtz coils above and below the disk. (The coils are not shown.) The Faraday currents **flow** in a perfect dead short around the periphery of the disk. The Hall effect currents flow between ring electrodes near the center duct and ring electrodes near the periphery duct. The wide flat gas flo...
770. ...by a pair of circular Helmholtz coils above and below the disk. (The coils are not shown.) The Faraday currents flow in a perfect dead short around the periphery of the disk. The Hall effect currents **flow** between ring electrodes near the center duct and ring electrodes near the periphery duct. The wide flat gas flow reduced the distance, hence the resistance of the moving fluid. This increases efficie...
771. ...low in a perfect dead short around the periphery of the disk. The Hall effect currents flow between ring electrodes near the center duct and ring electrodes near the periphery duct. The wide flat gas **flow** reduced the distance, hence the resistance of the moving fluid. This increases efficiency. Another significant advantage of this design is that the magnets are more efficient. First, they cause simpl...
772. ...m, culminating in a 1992 50 MW demonstration coal combustor at the Component Development and Integration Facility (CDIF) in Butte, Montana. This program also had significant work at the Coal-Fired-In-**Flow**-Facility (CFIFF) at University of Tennessee Space Institute. This program combined four parts: Initial prototypes at the CDIF operated for short durations, with various coals: Montana Rosebud, and a...
773. ...of thin iron sheets coated with an insulating layer, lying as much as possible parallel with the lines of flux. The layers of insulation serve as a barrier to eddy currents, so eddy currents can only **flow** in narrow loops within the thickness of each single lamination. Since the current in an eddy current loop is proportional to the area of the loop, this prevents most of the current from flowing, redu...
774. ...teresis power loss is If the core is electrically conductive, the changing magnetic field induces circulating loops of current in it, called eddy currents, due to electromagnetic induction. The loops **flow** perpendicular to the magnetic field axis. The energy of the currents is dissipated as heat in the resistance of the core material. The power loss is proportional to the area of the loops and inversel...
775. .... The VR tube then acts as a negative resistance device; as the current through the device increases, the amount of ionization also increases, reducing the resistance of the device to further current **flow**. In this way, the device conducts sufficient current to hold the voltage across its terminals to the desired value. Because the device would conduct a nearly unlimited amount of current, there must b...
776. ...re must be some external means of limiting the current. Usually, this is provided by an external resistor upstream from the VR tube. The VR tube then conducts any portion of the current that does not **flow** into the downstream load, maintaining an approximately constant voltage across the VR tube's electrodes. The VR tube's regulation voltage was only guaranteed when conducting an amount of current with...
777. ...field. Also, most conductors exhibit a ferromagnetic response to low-frequency magnetic fields, so that such fields are not fully attenuated by the conductor. Any holes in the shield force current to **flow** around them, so that fields passing through the holes do not excite opposing electromagnetic fields. These effects reduce the field-reflecting capability of the shield. In the case of high-frequency...
778. ...Moholy-Nagy, Christian Schad (who called them "Schadographs"), Imogen Cunningham and Pablo Picasso. Variations of the technique have also been used for scientific purposes, in shadowgraph studies of **flow** in transparent media and in high-speed Schlieren photography, and in the medical X-ray. The term "photogram" comes from the combining form () of Ancient Greek (, "light"), and Ancient Greek suffix ()...
779. ...se being equal, the maximum ion beam current with krypton is only 69% of the maximum ion current of an argon beam; with xenon the ratio drops to 55%. In a gridless ion source, ions are generated by a **flow** of electrons, without grids. The most common gridless ion source is the end-Hall ion source, with which the discharge current and the gas flow are used to control the beam current. Ion beams can be u...
780. ...o 55%. In a gridless ion source, ions are generated by a flow of electrons, without grids. The most common gridless ion source is the end-Hall ion source, with which the discharge current and the gas **flow** are used to control the beam current. Ion beams can be used for material modification (e.g. by sputtering or ion beam etching) and for ion beam analysis. Ion beam application, etching, or sputtering,...
781. ...ation or "keep-alive" circuit was necessary for single-phase rectifiers such as the excitron and for mercury-arc rectifiers used in the high-voltage supply of radiotelegraphy transmitters, as current **flow** was regularly interrupted every time the Morse key was released. Both glass and metal envelope rectifiers may have control grids inserted between the anode and cathode. Installation of a control grid...
782. ...a control grid between the anode and the pool cathode allows control of the conduction of the valve, thereby giving control of the mean output voltage produced by the rectifier. Start of the current **flow** can be delayed past the point at which the arc would form in an uncontrolled valve. This allows the output voltage of a valve group to be adjusted by delaying the firing point, and allows controlled...
783. ...each AC phase are fed from opposite ends of the centre tapped transformer winding, one will always be positive with respect to the center tap and both halves of the AC Waveform will cause current to **flow** in one direction only through the load. This rectification of the whole AC waveform is thus called "full-wave rectification". With three-phase alternating current and full-wave rectification, six ano...
784. ...t diagram with a voltage source shown and the wires actually completing a circuit. This paradigm is further discussed below. Other paradigms highlight the similarities between equations governing the **flow** of fluid and the flow of charge. Flow and pressure variables can be calculated in both steady and transient fluid flow situations with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. Hydraulic ohms are the uni...
785. ...ge source shown and the wires actually completing a circuit. This paradigm is further discussed below. Other paradigms highlight the similarities between equations governing the flow of fluid and the **flow** of charge. Flow and pressure variables can be calculated in both steady and transient fluid flow situations with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. Hydraulic ohms are the units of hydraulic impeda...
786. ...and the wires actually completing a circuit. This paradigm is further discussed below. Other paradigms highlight the similarities between equations governing the flow of fluid and the flow of charge. **Flow** and pressure variables can be calculated in both steady and transient fluid flow situations with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. Hydraulic ohms are the units of hydraulic impedance, which is de...
787. ...elow. Other paradigms highlight the similarities between equations governing the flow of fluid and the flow of charge. Flow and pressure variables can be calculated in both steady and transient fluid **flow** situations with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. Hydraulic ohms are the units of hydraulic impedance, which is defined as the ratio of pressure to volume flow rate. The pressure and volume flow...
788. ...in both steady and transient fluid flow situations with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. Hydraulic ohms are the units of hydraulic impedance, which is defined as the ratio of pressure to volume **flow** rate. The pressure and volume flow variables are treated as phasors in this definition, so possess a phase as well as magnitude. A slightly different paradigm is used in acoustics, where acoustic imp...
789. ...flow situations with the use of the hydraulic ohm analogy. Hydraulic ohms are the units of hydraulic impedance, which is defined as the ratio of pressure to volume flow rate. The pressure and volume **flow** variables are treated as phasors in this definition, so possess a phase as well as magnitude. A slightly different paradigm is used in acoustics, where acoustic impedance is defined as a relationship...
790. ...that stores compressional energy when the time-dependent pressure deviates from atmospheric pressure. A hole (or long tube) is analogous to an inductor that stores kinetic energy associated with the **flow** of air. In general, electric potential is equivalent to hydraulic head. This model assumes that the water is flowing horizontally, so that the force of gravity can be ignored. In this case, electric...
791. ...ltage (or voltage drop or "potential difference") is a difference in pressure between two points. Electric potential is usually measured in volts. Electric current is equivalent to a hydraulic volume **flow** rate; that is, the volumetric quantity of flowing water over time. Usually measured in amperes. A unit of electric charge is analogous to a unit volume of water. A relatively wide hose completely fil...
792. ...and thus adds nothing to the circuit. A resistor is equivalent to a constriction in the bore of a pipe which requires more pressure to pass the same amount of water. All pipes have some resistance to **flow**, just as all wires and traces have some resistance to current. A node (or junction) in Kirchhoff's junction rule is equivalent to a pipe tee. The net flow of water into a piping tee (filled with wate...
793. ...of water. All pipes have some resistance to flow, just as all wires and traces have some resistance to current. A node (or junction) in Kirchhoff's junction rule is equivalent to a pipe tee. The net **flow** of water into a piping tee (filled with water) must equal the net flow out. A capacitor is equivalent to a tank with one connection at each end and a rubber sheet dividing the tank in two lengthwise...
794. ...d traces have some resistance to current. A node (or junction) in Kirchhoff's junction rule is equivalent to a pipe tee. The net flow of water into a piping tee (filled with water) must equal the net **flow** out. A capacitor is equivalent to a tank with one connection at each end and a rubber sheet dividing the tank in two lengthwise (a hydraulic accumulator). When water is forced into one pipe, equal wa...
795. ...uctor is equivalent to a rotary vane pump with a heavy rotor placed in the current. The mass of the rotor and the surface area of the vanes restricts the water's ability to rapidly change its rate of **flow** (current) through the pump due to the effects of inertia, but, given time, a constant flowing stream will pass mostly unimpeded through the pump, as the rotor turns at the same speed as the water flo...
796. ...low (current) through the pump due to the effects of inertia, but, given time, a constant flowing stream will pass mostly unimpeded through the pump, as the rotor turns at the same speed as the water **flow**. The mass of the rotor and the surface area of its vanes are analogous to inductance, and friction between its axle and the axle bearings corresponds to the resistance that accompanies any non-superc...
797. ...tia device is used in real life as an essential component of a hydraulic ram. The inertia of the water flowing through the pipe produces the inductance effect; inductors "filter out" rapid changes in **flow**, while allowing slow variations in current to be passed through. The drag imposed by the walls of the pipe is somewhat analogous to parasitic resistance. In either model, the pressure difference (vol...
798. ...MOS is a combination of two MOSFET transistors. As the input pressure changes, the pistons allow the output to connect to either zero or positive pressure. A memristor is a needle valve operated by a **flow** meter. As water flows through in the forward direction, the needle valve restricts flow more; as water flows the other direction, the needle valve opens further, providing less resistance. On the bas...
799. ...ns allow the output to connect to either zero or positive pressure. A memristor is a needle valve operated by a flow meter. As water flows through in the forward direction, the needle valve restricts **flow** more; as water flows the other direction, the needle valve opens further, providing less resistance. On the basis of this analogy Johan van Veen developed around 1937 a method to compute tidal curren...
800. ...the Delta Works. EM wave speed (velocity of propagation) is equivalent to the speed of sound in water. When a light switch is flipped, the electric wave travels very quickly through the wires. Charge **flow** speed (drift velocity) is equivalent to the particle speed of water. The moving charges themselves move rather slowly. DC is equivalent to a constant flow of water in a circuit of pipes. Low frequenc...
801. ...avels very quickly through the wires. Charge flow speed (drift velocity) is equivalent to the particle speed of water. The moving charges themselves move rather slowly. DC is equivalent to a constant **flow** of water in a circuit of pipes. Low frequency AC is equivalent to water oscillating back and forth in a pipe Higher-frequency AC and transmission lines is somewhat equivalent to sound being transmitt...
802. ...on lines is somewhat equivalent to sound being transmitted through the water pipes, though this does not properly mirror the cyclical reversal of alternating electric current. As described, the fluid **flow** conveys pressure fluctuations, but fluids do not reverse at high rates in hydraulic systems, which the above "low frequency" entry does accurately describe. A better concept (if sound waves are to be...
803. ...ential equations are equivalent in form, the dynamics of the systems they describe will be related. The example hydraulic equations approximately describe the relationship between a constant, laminar **flow** in a cylindrical pipe and the difference in pressure at each end, as long as the flow is not analyzed near the ends of the pipe. The example electric equations approximately describe the relationship...
804. ...l be related. The example hydraulic equations approximately describe the relationship between a constant, laminar flow in a cylindrical pipe and the difference in pressure at each end, as long as the **flow** is not analyzed near the ends of the pipe. The example electric equations approximately describe the relationship between a current in a straight wire and the difference in electric potential (voltag...
805. ...states are related. The assumptions that make these differential equations good approximates are needed for this relationship. Any deviations from the assumptions (e.g. pipe or wire is not straight, **flow** or current is changing over time, other factors are influencing potential) can make the relationship fail to hold. The differential equations for hydraulics and electronics above are special cases of...
806. ...a hydraulic transmission line, the energy flows as mechanical waves through the water, but in an electric transmission line the energy flows as fields in the space surrounding the wires, and does not **flow** inside the metal. Also, an accelerating electron will drag its neighbors along while attracting them, both because of magnetic forces. Charge: Unlike water, movable charge carriers can be positive or...
807. ...filter. Also, typical velocity of charge carriers within a conductor is less than centimeters per minute, and the "electrical friction" is extremely high. If charges ever flowed as fast as water can **flow** in pipes, the electric current would be immense, and the conductors would become incandescently hot and perhaps vaporize. To model the resistance and the charge-velocity of metals, perhaps a pipe pac...
808. ...voltage drop, solar cell functions, Peltier effect, etc., however equivalent devices can be designed which exhibit similar responses, although some of the mechanisms would only serve to regulate the **flow** curves rather than to contribute to the component's primary function. In order for the model to be useful, the reader or student must have a substantial understanding of the model (hydraulic) system'...
809. ...ontinuous surface.  Its connectors are attached at the same point on the circumference but on opposite surfaces.  It provides a resistor with a reduced self-inductance, meaning that it can resist the **flow** of electricity in a more frequency-independent manner. Due to a symmetrical construction, the voltage between the conductive surfaces of the Möbius resistor in the point equidistant to the feed point...
810. ...e also acted upon by the wind, formula_8 where formula_9 is the drag coefficient, formula_10 is the wind speed, and formula_11 is the droplet speed. The equation may be simplified in cases of laminar **flow**, which can be expressed using the Reynolds Number (Re), which is used in fluid mechanics to determine flow patterns. The flow is considered laminar when the Reynolds Number is less than 1,  formula_1...
811. ...eed, and formula_11 is the droplet speed. The equation may be simplified in cases of laminar flow, which can be expressed using the Reynolds Number (Re), which is used in fluid mechanics to determine **flow** patterns. The flow is considered laminar when the Reynolds Number is less than 1,  formula_12  where formula_13 is the viscosity of air. When the flow is indeed laminar, the drag force can be calcula...
812. ...is the droplet speed. The equation may be simplified in cases of laminar flow, which can be expressed using the Reynolds Number (Re), which is used in fluid mechanics to determine flow patterns. The **flow** is considered laminar when the Reynolds Number is less than 1,  formula_12  where formula_13 is the viscosity of air. When the flow is indeed laminar, the drag force can be calculated using Stokes' l...
813. ...), which is used in fluid mechanics to determine flow patterns. The flow is considered laminar when the Reynolds Number is less than 1,  formula_12  where formula_13 is the viscosity of air. When the **flow** is indeed laminar, the drag force can be calculated using Stokes' law,  formula_14  where formula_15 is the Cunningham slip correction factor, which is assumed to be 1 for particles greater than 1μm...
814. ...ged, form an electric field which exerts a force on the particles in the opposite direction of the wind. Though the force of the wind initially exceeds the force of the electric field, the continuous **flow** of particles increases the force of the electric field. The force may become strong enough to move the particles back towards the charging system, or they may simply pass by the collector. The partic...
815. ...e fault will cause a bipolar outage. Usually these ground return paths are only used for very short durations until the faulted pole can be returned to service. The ground current in such schemes can **flow** in either direction, so the electrodes have to be designed to be reversible, operating either as an anode or cathode. Concerning voltage-source-converter (VSC) HVDC systems, the main reason to use bi...
816. ...sed by wafer damage. A gas-filled tube can also be used as a shunt, particularly in a lightning arrester. Neon, like other noble gases, has a high breakdown voltage, so that normally current will not **flow** across it. However, a direct lightning strike (such as on a radio tower antenna) will cause the shunt to arc and conduct the massive amount of electricity to ground, protecting transmitters and other...
817. ...ing a fuse or other current limiting circuit to open. All semiconductor diodes have a threshold voltage – typically between 0.5 volt and 1 volt – that must be exceeded before significant current will **flow** through the diode in the normally allowed direction. Two anti-parallel shunt diodes (one to conduct current in each direction) can be used to limit the signal flowing past them to no more than their...
818. ...cular ammeter. In this case, a separate shunt, a resistor of very low but accurately known resistance, is placed in parallel with a voltmeter, so that virtually all of the current to be measured will **flow** through the shunt (provided that the very high internal resistance of the voltmeter takes such a low portion of the current that it can be considered negligible). The resistance is chosen so that the...
819. ...for longer periods of time without the constraints of gravity. At each point of a superconducting electronic circuit (a network of electrical elements), the condensate wave function describing charge **flow** is well-defined by some complex probability amplitude. In typical conductor electrical circuits, this same description is true for individual charge carriers except that the various wave functions ar...
820. ...llowed to have different superconducting phases. This distinction of nonlinearity contrasts continuous superconducting wire for which the wave function across the junction must be continuous. Current **flow** through the junction occurs by quantum tunneling, seeming to instantaneously "tunnel" from one side of the junction to the other. This tunneling phenomenon is unique to quantum systems. Thus, quantum...
821. ...d formula_21 can be obtained from the y-intercept of the linear fit an estimation of formula_1 is possible. The original TLM method as described above has the drawback, that the current does not just **flow** within the area given by formula_11 times formula_17. This means that the current density distribution also spreads to the vertical sides of the metallic pads in the figure in the TLM section, a phen...
822. ...lus the current formula_18 induced through the capacitor formula_7 by the saw-type voltage formula_20of the sweep-generator: The current component formula_21 can be measured at the absence of the ion **flow** and can be subtracted further from the total current formula_22 measured with plasma to obtain the actual Faraday cup I-V characteristic formula_23 for processing. All of the Faraday cup elements and...
823. ...or ceramic for insulators). For processing of the Faraday cup I-V characteristic, we are going to assume that the Faraday cup is installed far enough away from an investigated plasma source where the **flow** of ions could be considered as the flow of particles with parallel velocities directed exactly along the Faraday cup axis. In this case, the elementary particle current formula_24 corresponding to th...
824. ...ng of the Faraday cup I-V characteristic, we are going to assume that the Faraday cup is installed far enough away from an investigated plasma source where the flow of ions could be considered as the **flow** of particles with parallel velocities directed exactly along the Faraday cup axis. In this case, the elementary particle current formula_24 corresponding to the ion density differential formula_25 in...
825. ..._40 can be calculated (under the assumption that we operate with a single type of ion) by the expressions where formula_41 is the ion mass in atomic units. The ion concentration formula_42 in the ion **flow** at the Faraday cup vicinity can be calculated by the formula which follows from Eq. () at formula_43, and from the conventional condition for distribution function normalizing Fig. 2 illustrates the...
826. ...Tree. From then, he uses the belt and axe-hammer he wielded before, now more powerful due to advancements made by Tony Stark. AC power In an electric circuit, instantaneous power is the time rate of **flow** of energy past a given point of the circuit. In alternating current circuits, energy storage elements such as inductors and capacitors may result in periodic reversals of the direction of energy flow...
827. ...flow of energy past a given point of the circuit. In alternating current circuits, energy storage elements such as inductors and capacitors may result in periodic reversals of the direction of energy **flow**. Its SI unit is the watt. The portion of instantaneous power that, averaged over a complete cycle of the AC waveform, results in net transfer of energy in one direction is known as instantaneous acti...
828. ...sistive, the two quantities reverse their polarity at the same time. Hence, the instantaneous power, given by the product of voltage and current, is always positive, such that the direction of energy **flow** does not reverse and always is toward the resistor. In this case, only active power is transferred. If the load is purely "reactive", then the voltage and current are 90 degrees out of phase. For two...
829. ...tage and current is positive, but for the other two quarters, the product is negative, indicating that on average, exactly as much energy flows into the load as flows back out. There is no net energy **flow** over each half cycle. In this case, only reactive power flows: There is no net transfer of energy to the load; however, electrical power does flow along the wires and returns by flowing in reverse al...
830. ...o the load as flows back out. There is no net energy flow over each half cycle. In this case, only reactive power flows: There is no net transfer of energy to the load; however, electrical power does **flow** along the wires and returns by flowing in reverse along the same wires. The current required for this reactive power flow dissipates energy in the line resistance, even if the ideal load device consu...
831. ...here is no net transfer of energy to the load; however, electrical power does flow along the wires and returns by flowing in reverse along the same wires. The current required for this reactive power **flow** dissipates energy in the line resistance, even if the ideal load device consumes no energy itself. Practical loads have resistance as well as inductance, or capacitance, so both active and reactive p...
832. ...energy in the line resistance, even if the ideal load device consumes no energy itself. Practical loads have resistance as well as inductance, or capacitance, so both active and reactive powers will **flow** to normal loads. Apparent power is the product of the RMS values of voltage and current. Apparent power is taken into account when designing and operating power systems, because although the current...
833. ...rm lagging the voltage waveform by 90 degrees. The result of this is that capacitive and inductive circuit elements tend to cancel each other out. Engineers use the following terms to describe energy **flow** in a system (and assign each of them a different unit to differentiate between them): These are all denoted in the adjacent diagram (called a power triangle). In the diagram, "P" is the active power,...
834. ...lly reduce the harmonic currents further and maintain the power factor closer to unity. Wattmeter The wattmeter is an instrument for measuring the electric active power (or the average of the rate of **flow** of electrical energy) in watts of any given circuit. Electromagnetic wattmeters are used for measurement of utility frequency and audio frequency power; other types are required for radio frequency m...
835. ...eated by case- and component fans. The accumulated dust covers metal surfaces and clogs the empty space between the fins of heatsinks, diminishing the dissipation of heat and interrupting the outward **flow** of warm air. Especially for critical components such as microprocessors and memory banks, this raises the risk of them overheating which can ultimately damage or destroy them. To compensate, automati...
836. ...lar moment in time let the voltage across the device be formula_1. Now assume that the voltage changes with time slowly enough that at each moment the current is the same as the DC current that would **flow** at that voltage, say formula_2 (the "quasistatic approximation"). Suppose further that the time to cross the device is the forward transit time formula_3. In this case the amount of charge in transit...
837. ...er the leading edge of the magnet "(left side)" the magnetic field through the sheet is increasing as it gets nearer the magnet. From Faraday's law of induction, this field induces a counterclockwise **flow** of electric current "(I, red)", in the sheet. This is the eddy current. In contrast, at the trailing edge of the magnet "(right side)" the magnetic field through the sheet is decreasing, inducing a c...
838. ...at it, and argon gas is pumped along the direction of the laser point. The oven temperature is approximately 1200 °C. As the laser ablates the target, carbon nanotubes form and are carried by the gas **flow** onto a cool copper collector. Like carbon nanotubes formed using the electric-arc discharge technique, carbon nanotube fibers are deposited in a haphazard and tangled fashion. Single-walled nanotubes...
839. ...straightforward and does not require the use of exotic materials. Most probes are constructed in-house within the facility and include magnetic field probes, Langmuir probes, Mach probes (to measure **flow**), electric dipole probes and many others. Standard probe design also allows external users to bring their own diagnostics with them, if they desire. Each probe is inserted through its own vacuum inte...
840. ...dissipation properties, is revealed. Often, data obtained by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) is expressed graphically in a Bode plot or a Nyquist plot. Impedance is the opposition to the **flow** of alternating current (AC) in a complex system. A passive complex electrical system comprises both energy dissipater (resistor) and energy storage (capacitor) elements. If the system is purely resis...
841. ...a non-contact process which does not require capacitative conductive plates. Microwave volumetric heating is a commercially available method of heating liquids, suspensions, or solids in a continuous **flow** on an industrial scale. Microwave volumetric heating has a greater penetration depth, of up to , which is an even penetration through the entire volume of the flowing product. This is advantageous in...
842. ...only expanded, serving as a way to monitor free radicals produced by other electrolysis reactions.  In more recent years, EPR has also been used within the context of electrochemistry to study redox-**flow** reactions and batteries. Because of the in situ possibilities, it is possible to construct an electrochemical cell inside the EPR instrument and capture the short-lived intermediates involved at lowe...
843. ...splits the microwave power into two paths, one directed towards the cavity and the other the reference arm. Along both paths there is a variable attenuator that facilitates the precise control of the **flow** of microwave power. This in turn allows for accurate control over the intensity of the microwaves subjected to the sample. On the reference arm, after the variable attenuator there is a phase shifter...
844. ...ndispensable, amounted to about five billion euros, with MRI systems accounting for about 80% of that total. In 1962, Brian Josephson made the important theoretical prediction that a supercurrent can **flow** between two pieces of superconductor separated by a thin layer of insulator. This phenomenon, now called the Josephson effect, is exploited by superconducting devices such as SQUIDs. It is used in th...
845. ...ion of magnetic fields that already penetrate the object. Fritz London and Heinz London developed the theory that the exclusion of magnetic flux is brought about by electrical screening currents that **flow** at the surface of the superconducting material and which generate a magnetic field that exactly cancels the externally applied field inside the superconductor. These screening currents are generated...
846. ...and intricacy we all deal with in our own relationships on a daily basis". Apollo's powers include superhuman strength, flight, and near invulnerability (the character has been shown entering a lava **flow** to deactivate a volcano, and walking on the surface of the Sun). His eyes are constructed to concentrate solar energy into laser-like blasts. Apollo can also release his solar energy from other parts...
847. ...ggested to be a result of the relative shift and realignment between the quasi-Fermi levels of the semiconductors adjacent to the junction/interface under the nonequilibrium conditions. The electrons **flow** in the external circuit back and forth to balance the potential difference between two electrodes. The organic solar cell, which the materials have no initial carrier concentration, does not have the...
848. ...hysical movement of atoms in response to an external field, which is extremely fast, averaging about 1 ns. In theory, this means that FeRAM could be much faster than DRAM. However, since power has to **flow** into the cell for reading and writing, the electrical and switching delays would likely be similar to DRAM overall. It does seem reasonable to suggest that FeRAM would require less charge than DRAM,...
849. ...harge than DRAM, because DRAMs need to "hold" the charge, whereas FeRAM would have been written to before the charge would have drained. However, there is a delay in writing because the charge has to **flow** through the control transistor, which limits current somewhat. In comparison to flash, the advantages are much more obvious. Whereas the read operation is likely to be similar in speed, the charge pu...
850. ...in a conductor when a magnetic field is present. Albert von Ettingshausen and his PhD student Walther Nernst were studying the Hall effect in bismuth, and noticed an unexpected perpendicular current **flow** when one side of the sample was heated. This is known as the Nernst effect. Conversely, when applying a current (along the y-axis) and a perpendicular magnetic field (along the z-axis) a temperature...
851. ...very nearly completely occupied. The conduction band, above the Fermi level, is normally nearly completely empty. Because the valence band is so nearly full, its electrons are not mobile, and cannot **flow** as electric current. However, if an electron in the valence band acquires enough energy to reach the conduction band as a result of interaction with other electrons, holes, photons, or the vibrating...
852. ...if an electron in the valence band acquires enough energy to reach the conduction band as a result of interaction with other electrons, holes, photons, or the vibrating crystal lattice itself, it can **flow** freely among the nearly empty conduction band energy states. Furthermore, it will also leave behind a hole that can flow like a physically charged particle. Carrier generation describes processes by...
853. ...her electrons, holes, photons, or the vibrating crystal lattice itself, it can flow freely among the nearly empty conduction band energy states. Furthermore, it will also leave behind a hole that can **flow** like a physically charged particle. Carrier generation describes processes by which electrons gain energy and move from the valence band to the conduction band, producing two mobile carriers; while r...
854. ...1, the paradox can be readily solved: the circuit does not constitute a simple loop of wire, as postulated by Faraday's law of induction; it is rather the union of two loops, because the current can **flow** through the two halves of the rim (see figure 2). If, on the other hand, one keep only one part of the rim from the radius junction to the brush, then the whole circuit is now a true loop whose shape...
855. ...the EMF is to be found, and (ii) it has to capture the relative motion of all moving parts of the circuit. It is emphatically "not" required that the bounding curve corresponds to a physical line of **flow** of the current. On the other hand, induction is all about relative motion, and the path emphatically "must" capture any relative motion. In a case like Figure 1 where a portion of the current path is...
856. ...ath independence, in Figure 3 the Faraday disc is unwrapped onto a strip, making it resemble a sliding rectangle problem. In the sliding rectangle case, it becomes obvious that the pattern of current **flow** inside the rectangle is time-independent and therefore irrelevant to the rate of change of flux linking the circuit. There is no need to consider exactly how the current traverses the rectangle (or t...
857. ...be is selected to be of a different material to the sample, therefore each component initially has a distinct Fermi level. When electrical connection is made between the probe and the sample electron **flow** can occur between the probe and the sample in the direction of the higher to the lower Fermi level. This electron flow causes the equilibration of the probe and sample Fermi levels. Furthermore, a su...
858. ...el. When electrical connection is made between the probe and the sample electron flow can occur between the probe and the sample in the direction of the higher to the lower Fermi level. This electron **flow** causes the equilibration of the probe and sample Fermi levels. Furthermore, a surface charge develops on the probe and the sample, with a related potential difference known as the contact potential (...
859. ...n as the contact potential (V). In SKP the probe is vibrated along a perpendicular to the plane of the sample. This vibration causes a change in probe to sample distance, which in turn results in the **flow** of current, taking the form of an ac sine wave. The resulting ac sine wave is demodulated to a dc signal through the use of a lock-in amplifier. Typically the user must select the correct reference p...
860. ...eneral) different work functions, which represent the difference between the Fermi level and the vacuum level for each material. If both elements were brought in contact, a net electric current would **flow** between them until the Fermi levels were aligned. The difference between the work functions is called the contact potential difference and is denoted generally with "V". An electrostatic force exists...
861. ...al value. It allows the results of laboratory experiments to be applied to larger natural or artificial plasmas of interest. The situation is similar to testing aircraft or studying natural turbulent **flow** in wind tunnels with smaller-scale models. Similarity transformations (also called similarity laws) help us work out how plasma properties change in order to retain the same characteristics. A necess...
862. ...n be highly variable, but, generally, the electric field is enhanced in fogs and dust whereas the atmospheric electrical conductivity is diminished. The atmospheric potential gradient leads to an ion **flow** from the positively charged atmosphere to the negatively charged earth surface. Over a flat field on a day with clear skies, the atmospheric potential gradient is approximately 120 V/m. Objects protr...
863. ...g radiation, including X-rays, muons, protons, alpha particles, pions, and electrons. Ionization from this secondary radiation ensures that the atmosphere is weakly conductive, and the slight current **flow** from these ions over the Earth's surface balances the current flow from thunderstorms. Ions have characteristic parameters such as mobility, lifetime, and generation rate that vary with altitude. The...
864. ...ns, and electrons. Ionization from this secondary radiation ensures that the atmosphere is weakly conductive, and the slight current flow from these ions over the Earth's surface balances the current **flow** from thunderstorms. Ions have characteristic parameters such as mobility, lifetime, and generation rate that vary with altitude. The potential difference between the ionosphere and the Earth is maint...
865. ...tic field by the gyro-center shift, this movement generates spontaneous electric unbalance between in and out of the plasma. However this electric unbalance is immediately compensated by the electron **flow** through the parallel path and conducting end wall, when the plasma is contained in the cylindrical structure as in Bohm's and Simon's experiments. Simon recognized this electron flow and named it as...
866. ...by the electron flow through the parallel path and conducting end wall, when the plasma is contained in the cylindrical structure as in Bohm's and Simon's experiments. Simon recognized this electron **flow** and named it as 'short circuit' effect in 1955. With the help of short circuit effect the ion flow induced by the diamagnetic drift now becomes whole plasma flux which is proportional to the density...
867. ...ed in the cylindrical structure as in Bohm's and Simon's experiments. Simon recognized this electron flow and named it as 'short circuit' effect in 1955. With the help of short circuit effect the ion **flow** induced by the diamagnetic drift now becomes whole plasma flux which is proportional to the density gradient since the diamagnetic drift includes pressure gradient. The diamagnetic drift can be descr...
868. ...mperature gradient when a magnetic field is applied. For conductors, a significant portion of the thermal current is carried by the electrons. In particular, the Righi–Leduc effect describes the heat **flow** resulting from a perpendicular temperature gradient and vice versa. The Maggi–Righi–Leduc effect describes changes in thermal conductivity when placing a conductor in a magnetic field. A thermal Hall...
869. ...occur in the transverse "y-"direction, The Righi–Leduc effect is a thermal analogue of the Hall effect. With the Hall effect, an externally applied electrical voltage causes an electrical current to **flow**. The mobile charge carriers (usually electrons) are transversely deflected by the magnetic field due to the Lorentz force. In the Righi–Leduc effect, the temperature difference causes the mobile char...
870. ...arge carriers (usually electrons) are transversely deflected by the magnetic field due to the Lorentz force. In the Righi–Leduc effect, the temperature difference causes the mobile charge carriers to **flow** from the warmer end to the cooler end. Here, too, the Lorentz force causes a transverse deflection. Since the electrons transport heat, one side is heated more than the other. The thermal Hall coeffi...
871. ...(1855-1923) was an American neurologist who developed the first device for stimulating the vagus nerve towards the end of the 19th century. At this time a widely held theory was that excessive blood **flow** caused seizures. In the 1880s Corning designed a pronged instrument called the “carotid fork” to compress the carotid artery for the acute treatment of seizures. In addition, he developed the “caroti...
872. ...e hydrogen ion (proton). At the anode, the hydrogen molecule is split into hydrogen ions (protons) and electrons. The hydrogen ions permeate across the electrolyte to the cathode, while the electrons **flow** through an external circuit and produce electric power. Oxygen, usually in the form of air, is supplied to the cathode and combines with the electrons and the hydrogen ions to produce water. The reac...
873. ...and, but reveals that the device drove him crazy. Weather Wizard appears in series set in the DC Animated Universe (DCAU), voiced initially by Miguel Ferrer and subsequently by Corey Burton. Magnetic **flow** meter A "magnetic flow meter" (mag meter, electromagnetic flow meter) is a transducer that measures fluid flow by the voltage induced across the liquid by its flow through a magnetic field. A magneti...
874. ...he device drove him crazy. Weather Wizard appears in series set in the DC Animated Universe (DCAU), voiced initially by Miguel Ferrer and subsequently by Corey Burton. Magnetic flow meter A "magnetic **flow** meter" (mag meter, electromagnetic flow meter) is a transducer that measures fluid flow by the voltage induced across the liquid by its flow through a magnetic field. A magnetic field is applied to t...
875. ...d appears in series set in the DC Animated Universe (DCAU), voiced initially by Miguel Ferrer and subsequently by Corey Burton. Magnetic flow meter A "magnetic flow meter" (mag meter, electromagnetic **flow** meter) is a transducer that measures fluid flow by the voltage induced across the liquid by its flow through a magnetic field. A magnetic field is applied to the metering tube, which results in a pot...
876. ...rse (DCAU), voiced initially by Miguel Ferrer and subsequently by Corey Burton. Magnetic flow meter A "magnetic flow meter" (mag meter, electromagnetic flow meter) is a transducer that measures fluid **flow** by the voltage induced across the liquid by its flow through a magnetic field. A magnetic field is applied to the metering tube, which results in a potential difference proportional to the flow veloc...
877. ...sequently by Corey Burton. Magnetic flow meter A "magnetic flow meter" (mag meter, electromagnetic flow meter) is a transducer that measures fluid flow by the voltage induced across the liquid by its **flow** through a magnetic field. A magnetic field is applied to the metering tube, which results in a potential difference proportional to the flow velocity perpendicular to the flux lines. The physical pri...
878. ...fluid flow by the voltage induced across the liquid by its flow through a magnetic field. A magnetic field is applied to the metering tube, which results in a potential difference proportional to the **flow** velocity perpendicular to the flux lines. The physical principle at work is electromagnetic induction. The magnetic flow meter requires a conducting fluid, for example, water that contains ions, and...
879. ...the metering tube, which results in a potential difference proportional to the flow velocity perpendicular to the flux lines. The physical principle at work is electromagnetic induction. The magnetic **flow** meter requires a conducting fluid, for example, water that contains ions, and an electrical insulating pipe surface, for example, a rubber-lined steel tube. If the magnetic field direction were const...
880. ...ubber-lined steel tube. If the magnetic field direction were constant, electrochemical and other effects at the electrodes would make the potential difference  difficult to distinguish from the fluid **flow** induced potential difference. To show this in modern magnetic flowmeters, the magnetic field is constantly reversed, cancelling out the electrochemical potential difference, which does not change dir...
881. ...p devices on machines and equipment made from March 2012 and on, stating it shall not exceed 25 volts AC or 60 volts DC Velocity potential A velocity potential is a scalar potential used in potential **flow** theory. It was introduced by Joseph-Louis Lagrange in 1788. It is used in continuum mechanics, when a continuum occupies a simply-connected region and is irrotational. In such a case, formula_1 where...
882. ...as introduced by Joseph-Louis Lagrange in 1788. It is used in continuum mechanics, when a continuum occupies a simply-connected region and is irrotational. In such a case, formula_1 where denotes the **flow** velocity. As a result, can be represented as the gradient of a scalar function : formula_2 A velocity potential is not unique. If is a velocity potential, then is also a velocity potential for , wher...
883. ...can be constant. Velocity potentials are unique up to a constant, or a function solely of the temporal variable. The Laplacian of a velocity potential is equal to the divergence of the corresponding **flow**. Hence if a velocity potential satisfies Laplace equation, the flow is incompressible. Unlike a stream function, a velocity potential can exist in three-dimensional flow. In theoretical acoustics, it...
884. ...r a function solely of the temporal variable. The Laplacian of a velocity potential is equal to the divergence of the corresponding flow. Hence if a velocity potential satisfies Laplace equation, the **flow** is incompressible. Unlike a stream function, a velocity potential can exist in three-dimensional flow. In theoretical acoustics, it is often desirable to work with the acoustic wave equation of the v...
885. ...vergence of the corresponding flow. Hence if a velocity potential satisfies Laplace equation, the flow is incompressible. Unlike a stream function, a velocity potential can exist in three-dimensional **flow**. In theoretical acoustics, it is often desirable to work with the acoustic wave equation of the velocity potential instead of pressure and/or particle velocity .  formula_3 Solving the wave equation...
886. ...le answer for the other field. On the other hand, when is solved for, not only is found as given above, but is also easily found—from the (linearised) Bernoulli equation for irrotational and unsteady **flow**—as formula_4 Lightning strike A lightning strike or lightning bolt is a lightning event in which the electric discharge takes place between the atmosphere and the ground. Most originate in a cumuloni...
887. ...of 40 kA per microsecond. Hence, although lightning is a form of direct current, conductors of such currents exhibit marked skin effect as with an alternating current, causing most of the currents to **flow** through the outer surface of the conductor. In addition to electrical wiring damage, the other types of possible damage to consider include structural, fire, and property damage. The field of lightni...
888. ...biological electricity, particularly in the sub-field of electrophysiology. In this case, the voltage refers to the voltage across a biological membrane, a membrane potential, and the current is the **flow** of charged ions through channels in this membrane. The current is determined by the conductances of these channels. In the case of ionic current across biological membranes, currents are measured fro...
889. ...al phenomena was the two-fluid theory. This theory is generally attributed to Charles François de Cisternay du Fay. du Fay's theory suggested that electricity was composed of two liquids, which could **flow** through solid bodies. One liquid carried a positive charge, and the other a negative charge. When these two liquids came into contact with one another, they would produce a neutral charge. This theor...
890. ...and inner surface became positively charged, while the outer surface became negatively charged. This caused an imbalance in fluid, and a person touching both portions of the jar allowed the fluid to **flow** normally. Despite being a simpler theory, it was heavily debated whether electricity was made up of one fluid or two for a century. The one-fluid theory shows a significant shift in how the scientifi...
891. ...ty as being the movement of positive charges. Franklin arbitrarily thought of his electrical fluid as being of a positive charge, and therefore all thought was done in the frame of mind of a positive **flow**. This permeated the mindset of the scientific community to the point that electricity is still being thought of as the flow of positive charges, despite proof that electricity moving through metals (...
892. ...arge, and therefore all thought was done in the frame of mind of a positive flow. This permeated the mindset of the scientific community to the point that electricity is still being thought of as the **flow** of positive charges, despite proof that electricity moving through metals (the most common conductor) is done by the electron, or negative particle. Franklin was also the first person to suggest that...
893. ...he resistor. The larger the resistor, the more energy used by that resistor, and the bigger the voltage drop across that resistor. AC voltages additionally have a second kind of opposition to current **flow**: reactance. The sum of resistance and reactance is called impedance. Electrical impedance is commonly represented by the variable "Z" and measured in ohms at a specific frequency. Electrical impedanc...
894. ...e its wave function is spherical, the stable shape of the bubble is nonspherical. Birkeland current A Birkeland current (also known as field-aligned current, FAC) is a set of electrical currents that **flow** along geomagnetic field lines connecting the Earth's magnetosphere to the Earth's high latitude ionosphere. In the Earth's magnetosphere, the currents are driven by the solar wind and interplanetary...
895. ...well as metal-halide lamps. The ballast initially works as a starter for the arc by its internal ignitor, supplying a high-voltage impulse and, later, it works as a limiter/regulator of the electric **flow** inside the circuit. Electronic ballasts also run much cooler and are lighter than their magnetic counterparts. This technique uses a combination filament–cathode at each end of the lamp in conjunctio...
896. ...ucting electrons. Half metallic ferromagnets are therefore promising for spintronics applications. Evershed effect The Evershed effect, named after the British astronomer John Evershed, is the radial **flow** of gas across the photospheric surface of the penumbra of sunspots from the inner border with the umbra towards the outer edge. The speed varies from around 1 km/s at the border between the umbra and...
897. ...circuit boards that have ground and V paths on the surfaces of the board. Ground bounce may be reduced by placing a 10–30-ohm resistor in series to each of the switching outputs to limit the current **flow** during the gate switch. Dielectric reluctance Dielectric reluctance is a scalar measurement of a passive dielectric circuit (or element within that circuit) dependent on voltage and electric inductio...
898. ...spect. However, magnetic flux passing through a reluctance does not give rise to dissipation of heat as it does for current through a resistance. Thus, the analogy cannot be used for modelling energy **flow** in systems where energy crosses between the magnetic and electrical domains. An alternative analogy to the reluctance model which does correctly represent energy flows is the gyrator–capacitor model....
899. ...ystems, where the backup generators are seen as secondary to the mains electrical supply. Computers, communication networks, and other modern electronic devices need not only power, but also a steady **flow** of it to continue to operate. If the source voltage drops significantly or drops out completely, these devices will fail, even if the power loss is only for a fraction of a second. Because of this, e...
900. ...process increases the density of the plasma very rapidly, causing its temperature to increase. Early devices quickly demonstrated a problem with the stability of this process. As the current began to **flow** in the plasma, magnetic effects known as the "sausage" and "kink" appeared that caused the plasma to become unstable and eventually hit the sides of the container. When this occurred, the hot plasma...
901. ...dle of the mug. When current is applied, it begins to arc at the path of least resistance, at the end near the insulator disk. This causes the gas in the area to rapidly ionize, and current begins to **flow** through it to the outer electrode. The current creates a magnetic field that begins to push the plasma down the tube towards the open end. It reaches the end in microseconds. When it reaches the end,...
902. ...de-boost tether system is configured to enable electron collection to the positively biased higher altitude section of the bare tether, and returned to the ionosphere at the lower altitude end. This **flow** of electrons through the length of the tether in the presence of the Earth's magnetic field creates a force that produces a drag thrust that helps de-orbit the system, as given by the above equation....
903. ...nosphere. When the tether intersects the planet's magnetic field, it generates a current, and thereby converts some of the orbiting body's kinetic energy to electrical energy. Functionally, electrons **flow** from the space plasma into the conductive tether, are passed through a resistive load in a control unit and are emitted into the space plasma by an electron emitter as free electrons. As a result of...
904. ...of the plasma. Thus, to complete the electrical circuit, a sufficiently large area of uninsulated conductor is needed at the upper, positively charged end of the tether, thereby permitting current to **flow** through the tether. However, it is more difficult for the opposite (negative) end of the tether to eject free electrons or to collect positive ions from the plasma. It is plausible that, by using a v...
905. ...electron emitter, such as a thermionic cathode, plasma cathode, plasma contactor, or field electron emission device. Since both ends of the tether are "open" to the surrounding plasma, electrons can **flow** out of one end of the tether while a corresponding flow of electrons enters the other end. In this fashion, the voltage that is electromagnetically induced within the tether can cause current to flow...
906. ...cathode, plasma contactor, or field electron emission device. Since both ends of the tether are "open" to the surrounding plasma, electrons can flow out of one end of the tether while a corresponding **flow** of electrons enters the other end. In this fashion, the voltage that is electromagnetically induced within the tether can cause current to flow through the surrounding space environment, completing a...
907. ...flow out of one end of the tether while a corresponding flow of electrons enters the other end. In this fashion, the voltage that is electromagnetically induced within the tether can cause current to **flow** through the surrounding space environment, completing an electrical circuit through what appears to be, at first glance, an open circuit. The amount of current ("I") flowing through a tether depends...
908. ...by Sanmartin and Estes and more recently using the 2-Dimensional Kinetic Plasma Solver (KiPS 2-D) by Choiniere et al. There is at present, no closed-form solution to account for the effects of plasma **flow** relative to the bare tether. However, numerical simulation has been recently developed by Choiniere et al. using KiPS-2D which can simulate flowing cases for simple geometries at high bias potentials...
909. ...erned by the thermal collection process, which is given by Ithe and Ithi. The next step in developing a more realistic model for current collection is to include the magnetic field effects and plasma **flow** effects. Assuming a collisionless plasma, electrons and ions gyrate around magnetic field lines as they travel between the poles around the Earth due to magnetic mirroring forces and gradient-curvatu...
910. ...), often in the form of field emitter arrays (FEAs). System level configurations will be presented for each device, as well as the relative costs, benefits, and validation. Thermionic emission is the **flow** of electrons from a heated charged metal or metal oxide surface, caused by thermal vibrational energy overcoming the work function (electrostatic forces holding electrons to the surface). The thermio...
911. ...ommercial examples of thermionic emitters and electron guns produced at Heatwave Labs Inc. TC electron emission will occur in one of two different regimes: temperature or space charge limited current **flow**. For temperature limited flow every electron that obtains enough energy to escape from the cathode surface is emitted, assuming the acceleration potential of the electron gun is large enough. In this...
912. ...ic emitters and electron guns produced at Heatwave Labs Inc. TC electron emission will occur in one of two different regimes: temperature or space charge limited current flow. For temperature limited **flow** every electron that obtains enough energy to escape from the cathode surface is emitted, assuming the acceleration potential of the electron gun is large enough. In this case, the emission current is...
913. ...on potential of the electron gun is large enough. In this case, the emission current is regulated by the thermionic emission process, given by the Richardson Dushman equation. In SCL electron current **flow** there are so many electrons emitted from the cathode that not all of them are accelerated enough by the electron gun to escape the space charge. In this case, the electron gun acceleration potential...
914. ...the below chart what a typical I-V curve looks like for a hollow cathode in electron emission mode. Given a certain keeper geometry (the ring in the figure above that the electrons exit through), ion **flow** rate, and Vp, the I-V profile can be determined. [111-113]. The operation of the HC in the electron collection mode is called the plasma contacting (or ignited) operating mode. The “ignited mode” is...
915. ...termed because it indicates that multi-ampere current levels can be achieved by using the voltage drop at the plasma contactor. This accelerates space plasma electrons which ionize neutral expellant **flow** from the contactor. If electron collection currents are high and/or ambient electron densities are low, the sheath at which electron current collection is sustained simply expands or shrinks until th...
916. ...side a three-dimensional equipotential region. Electrical conductors offer an intuitive example. If "a" and "b" are any two points within or at the surface of a given conductor, and given there is no **flow** of charge being exchanged between the two points, then the potential difference is zero between the two points. Thus, an equipotential would contain both points "a" and "b" as they have the same pote...
917. ...factor. A high Q value is for resonant circuits a mark of the quality of the resonance. A capacitor can act as an AC resistor, coupling AC voltage and AC current between two points. Every AC current **flow** through a capacitor generates heat inside the capacitor body. These dissipation power loss formula_33 is caused by formula_34 and is the squared value of the effective (RMS) current formula_35 The sa...
918. ...spray (schoopage) and metallized electrodes. This may reduce the contact to the electrodes, heightening the dissipation factor. For safe operation, the maximal temperature generated by any AC current **flow** through the capacitor is a limiting factor, which in turn limits AC load, ripple current, pulse load, etc. A "ripple current" is the RMS value of a superimposed AC current of any frequency and any wa...
919. ...tic capacitors as well as in manganese oxide solid tantalum capacitors decreases with voltage-connected time due to self-healing effects. Although electrolytics leakage current is higher than current **flow** over insulation resistance in ceramic or film capacitors, the self-discharge of modern non solid electrolytic capacitors takes several weeks. A particular problem with electrolytic capacitors is stor...
920. ...Large scale hydropower involves a dam and reservoir, and small scale micro-hydro can use turbines in rivers with constant levels of water. The amount of mechanical power generated is a factor of the **flow** of the stream, turbine size, water density, and power coefficient, similar to wind turbines. The energy from waves and tides can also provide power to coastal areas. When renewables produce energy th...
921. ...make the hard minerals precipitate. For off-grid buildings, efficient use of water is needed to prevent water supplies from running out. While this is ultimately habit-dependent, measures involve low-**flow** fixtures for faucets, shower heads, and toilets which decreases the flow rate of faucets or the volume of water per flush to reduce total water used. Water can be eliminated in toilets through the us...
922. ...of water is needed to prevent water supplies from running out. While this is ultimately habit-dependent, measures involve low-flow fixtures for faucets, shower heads, and toilets which decreases the **flow** rate of faucets or the volume of water per flush to reduce total water used. Water can be eliminated in toilets through the uses of a composting toilet. Automatic leak detectors and tap closures can...
923. ...n millibar. Electric discharge In electromagnetism, an electric discharge is the release and transmission of electricity in an applied electric field through a medium such as a gas (i.e., an outgoing **flow** of electric current through a non-metal medium). The properties and effects of electric discharges are useful over a wide range of magnitudes. Tiny pulses of current are used to detect ionizing radia...
924. ...tellites that were in orbit as of the year 2010. On July 25, 1962, a second attempt was made to launch the "Bluegill" device, but ended in disaster when the Thor suffered a stuck valve preventing the **flow** of LOX to the combustion chamber. The engine lost thrust and unburned RP-1 spilled down into the hot thrust chamber, igniting and starting a fire around the base of the missile. With the Thor engulfe...
925. ...y a dense plasma focus device (or plasma gun). Its existence in cosmic plasmas has not been confirmed. In 1986, Gerhard Haerendel, suggested that critical velocity ionization may stabilize the plasma **flow** in a cometary coma. In 1992, E. Golbraikh and M. Filippov argued that critical ionization velocity could play a role in coronal mass ejections and solar flares, and in 1992, Anthony Peratt and Gerrit...
926. ...to other New Gods, Lashina is vulnerable to a substance called Radion. However, its effects are only potent in sustained amounts. Lashina appears in "DC Super Hero Girls", voiced by Jessica DiCicco. **Flow** battery A flow battery, or redox flow battery (after reduction–oxidation), is a type of electrochemical cell where chemical energy is provided by two chemical components dissolved in liquids that are...
927. ...ods, Lashina is vulnerable to a substance called Radion. However, its effects are only potent in sustained amounts. Lashina appears in "DC Super Hero Girls", voiced by Jessica DiCicco. Flow battery A **flow** battery, or redox flow battery (after reduction–oxidation), is a type of electrochemical cell where chemical energy is provided by two chemical components dissolved in liquids that are pumped through...
928. ...ble to a substance called Radion. However, its effects are only potent in sustained amounts. Lashina appears in "DC Super Hero Girls", voiced by Jessica DiCicco. Flow battery A flow battery, or redox **flow** battery (after reduction–oxidation), is a type of electrochemical cell where chemical energy is provided by two chemical components dissolved in liquids that are pumped through the system on separate...
929. ...re chemical energy is provided by two chemical components dissolved in liquids that are pumped through the system on separate sides of a membrane. Ion transfer inside the cell (accompanied by current **flow** through an external circuit) occurs across the membrane while the liquids circulate in their respective spaces. Various flow batteries have been demonstrated, including inorganic and organic forms. F...
930. ...sides of a membrane. Ion transfer inside the cell (accompanied by current flow through an external circuit) occurs across the membrane while the liquids circulate in their respective spaces. Various **flow** batteries have been demonstrated, including inorganic and organic forms. Flow battery design can be further classified into full flow, semi-flow, and membraneless. The fundamental difference between...
931. ...w through an external circuit) occurs across the membrane while the liquids circulate in their respective spaces. Various flow batteries have been demonstrated, including inorganic and organic forms. **Flow** battery design can be further classified into full flow, semi-flow, and membraneless. The fundamental difference between conventional and flow batteries is that energy is stored in the electrode mate...
932. ...e while the liquids circulate in their respective spaces. Various flow batteries have been demonstrated, including inorganic and organic forms. Flow battery design can be further classified into full **flow**, semi-flow, and membraneless. The fundamental difference between conventional and flow batteries is that energy is stored in the electrode material in conventional batteries, while in flow batteries...
933. ...liquids circulate in their respective spaces. Various flow batteries have been demonstrated, including inorganic and organic forms. Flow battery design can be further classified into full flow, semi-**flow**, and membraneless. The fundamental difference between conventional and flow batteries is that energy is stored in the electrode material in conventional batteries, while in flow batteries it is store...
934. ...een demonstrated, including inorganic and organic forms. Flow battery design can be further classified into full flow, semi-flow, and membraneless. The fundamental difference between conventional and **flow** batteries is that energy is stored in the electrode material in conventional batteries, while in flow batteries it is stored in the electrolyte. A flow battery may be used like a fuel cell (where new...
935. ...into full flow, semi-flow, and membraneless. The fundamental difference between conventional and flow batteries is that energy is stored in the electrode material in conventional batteries, while in **flow** batteries it is stored in the electrolyte. A flow battery may be used like a fuel cell (where new charged negolyte (a.k.a. reducer or fuel) and charged posolyte (a.k.a. oxidant) are added to the syst...
936. ...fundamental difference between conventional and flow batteries is that energy is stored in the electrode material in conventional batteries, while in flow batteries it is stored in the electrolyte. A **flow** battery may be used like a fuel cell (where new charged negolyte (a.k.a. reducer or fuel) and charged posolyte (a.k.a. oxidant) are added to the system) or like a rechargeable battery (where an elect...
937. ...(a.k.a. reducer or fuel) and charged posolyte (a.k.a. oxidant) are added to the system) or like a rechargeable battery (where an electric power source drives regeneration of the reducer and oxidant). **Flow** batteries have certain technical advantages over conventional rechargeable batteries with solid electroactive materials, such as independent scaling of power (determined by the size of the stack) and...
938. ...ndent scaling of power (determined by the size of the stack) and of energy (determined by the size of the tanks), long cycle and calendar life, and potentially lower total cost of ownership. However, **flow** batteries suffer from low cycle energy efficiency (50–80%). This drawback stems from the need to operate flow batteries at high (>= 100 mA/cm2) current densities to reduce the effect of internal cros...
939. ...s), long cycle and calendar life, and potentially lower total cost of ownership. However, flow batteries suffer from low cycle energy efficiency (50–80%). This drawback stems from the need to operate **flow** batteries at high (>= 100 mA/cm2) current densities to reduce the effect of internal crossover (through the membrane/separator) and to reduce the cost of power (size of stacks). Also, most flow batte...
940. ...erate flow batteries at high (>= 100 mA/cm2) current densities to reduce the effect of internal crossover (through the membrane/separator) and to reduce the cost of power (size of stacks). Also, most **flow** batteries (Zn-Cl, Zn-Br and H-LiBrO are exceptions) have lower specific energy (heavier weight) than lithium-ion batteries. The heavier weight results mostly from the need to use a solvent (usually w...
941. ...ight) than lithium-ion batteries. The heavier weight results mostly from the need to use a solvent (usually water) to maintain the redox active species in the liquid phase. Patent Classifications for **flow** batteries had not been fully developed as of 2021. Cooperative Patent Classification considers flow batteries as a subclass of regenerative fuel cell (H01M8/18), even though it is more appropriate to...
942. ...usually water) to maintain the redox active species in the liquid phase. Patent Classifications for flow batteries had not been fully developed as of 2021. Cooperative Patent Classification considers **flow** batteries as a subclass of regenerative fuel cell (H01M8/18), even though it is more appropriate to consider fuel cells as a subclass of flow batteries. Cell voltage is chemically determined by the N...
943. ...d as of 2021. Cooperative Patent Classification considers flow batteries as a subclass of regenerative fuel cell (H01M8/18), even though it is more appropriate to consider fuel cells as a subclass of **flow** batteries. Cell voltage is chemically determined by the Nernst equation and ranges, in practical applications, from 1.0 to 2.43 volts. The energy capacity is a function of the electrolyte volume and...
944. ...ges, in practical applications, from 1.0 to 2.43 volts. The energy capacity is a function of the electrolyte volume and the power is a function of the surface area of the electrodes. The zinc–bromine **flow** battery (Zn-Br2) was the original flow battery. John Doyle file patent on September 29, 1879. Zn-Br2 batteries have relatively high specific energy, and were demonstrated in electric cars in the 1970...
945. ...0 to 2.43 volts. The energy capacity is a function of the electrolyte volume and the power is a function of the surface area of the electrodes. The zinc–bromine flow battery (Zn-Br2) was the original **flow** battery. John Doyle file patent on September 29, 1879. Zn-Br2 batteries have relatively high specific energy, and were demonstrated in electric cars in the 1970s. Walther Kangro, an Estonian chemist...
946. ...batteries have relatively high specific energy, and were demonstrated in electric cars in the 1970s. Walther Kangro, an Estonian chemist working in Germany in the 1950s, was the first to demonstrate **flow** batteries based on dissolved transition metal ions: Ti–Fe and Cr–Fe. After initial experimentations with Ti–Fe redox flow battery (RFB) chemistry, NASA and groups in Japan and elsewhere selected Cr–F...
947. ...stonian chemist working in Germany in the 1950s, was the first to demonstrate flow batteries based on dissolved transition metal ions: Ti–Fe and Cr–Fe. After initial experimentations with Ti–Fe redox **flow** battery (RFB) chemistry, NASA and groups in Japan and elsewhere selected Cr–Fe chemistry for further development. Mixed solutions (i.e. comprising both chromium and iron species in the negolyte and i...
948. ...mistry UNSW filed several patents related to VRFBs, that were later licensed to Japanese, Thai and Canadian companies, which tried to commercialize this technology with varying success. Organic redox **flow** batteries emerged in 2009. In 2022, Dalian, China began operating a 400 MWh, 100 MW vanadium flow battery, then the largest of its type. Sumitomo Electric has built flow batteries for use in Taiwan,...
949. ...Canadian companies, which tried to commercialize this technology with varying success. Organic redox flow batteries emerged in 2009. In 2022, Dalian, China began operating a 400 MWh, 100 MW vanadium **flow** battery, then the largest of its type. Sumitomo Electric has built flow batteries for use in Taiwan, Belgium, Australia, Morocco and California. Hokkaido’s flow battery farm was the biggest in the wo...
950. ...arying success. Organic redox flow batteries emerged in 2009. In 2022, Dalian, China began operating a 400 MWh, 100 MW vanadium flow battery, then the largest of its type. Sumitomo Electric has built **flow** batteries for use in Taiwan, Belgium, Australia, Morocco and California. Hokkaido’s flow battery farm was the biggest in the world when it opened in April 2022 — until China deployed one eight times...
951. ...n operating a 400 MWh, 100 MW vanadium flow battery, then the largest of its type. Sumitomo Electric has built flow batteries for use in Taiwan, Belgium, Australia, Morocco and California. Hokkaido’s **flow** battery farm was the biggest in the world when it opened in April 2022 — until China deployed one eight times larger that can match the output of a natural gas plant. A flow battery is a rechargeable...
952. ...nd California. Hokkaido’s flow battery farm was the biggest in the world when it opened in April 2022 — until China deployed one eight times larger that can match the output of a natural gas plant. A **flow** battery is a rechargeable fuel cell in which an electrolyte containing one or more dissolved electroactive elements flows through an electrochemical cell that reversibly converts chemical energy to e...
953. ...ake part in an electrode reaction or that can be adsorbed on the electrode."  Electrolyte is stored externally, generally in tanks, and is typically pumped through the cell (or cells) of the reactor. **Flow** batteries can be rapidly "recharged" by replacing discharged electrolyte liquid (analogous to refueling internal combustion engines) while recovering the spent material for recharging. They can also...
954. ...charged" by replacing discharged electrolyte liquid (analogous to refueling internal combustion engines) while recovering the spent material for recharging. They can also be recharged "in situ". Many **flow** batteries use carbon felt electrodes due to its low cost and adequate electrical conductivity, despite their limited power density due to their low inherent activity toward many redox couples. The am...
955. ...l conductivity, despite their limited power density due to their low inherent activity toward many redox couples. The amount of electricity that can be generated depends on the volume of electrolyte. **Flow** batteries are governed by the design principles of electrochemical engineering. Redox flow batteries, and to a lesser extent hybrid flow batteries, have the advantages of: Some types offer easy state...
956. ...rd many redox couples. The amount of electricity that can be generated depends on the volume of electrolyte. Flow batteries are governed by the design principles of electrochemical engineering. Redox **flow** batteries, and to a lesser extent hybrid flow batteries, have the advantages of: Some types offer easy state-of-charge determination (through voltage dependence on charge), low maintenance and tolera...
957. ...ty that can be generated depends on the volume of electrolyte. Flow batteries are governed by the design principles of electrochemical engineering. Redox flow batteries, and to a lesser extent hybrid **flow** batteries, have the advantages of: Some types offer easy state-of-charge determination (through voltage dependence on charge), low maintenance and tolerance to overcharge/overdischarge. They are safe...
958. ...olerance to overcharge/overdischarge. They are safe because they typically do not contain flammable electrolytes, and electrolytes can be stored away from the power stack. The main disadvantages are: **Flow** batteries typically have a higher energy efficiency than fuel cells, but lower than lithium-ion batteries. Traditional flow battery chemistries have both low specific energy (which makes them too hea...
959. ...olytes can be stored away from the power stack. The main disadvantages are: Flow batteries typically have a higher energy efficiency than fuel cells, but lower than lithium-ion batteries. Traditional **flow** battery chemistries have both low specific energy (which makes them too heavy for fully electric vehicles) and low specific power (which makes them too expensive for stationary energy storage). Howev...
960. ...em too heavy for fully electric vehicles) and low specific power (which makes them too expensive for stationary energy storage). However a high power of 1.4 W/cm was demonstrated for hydrogen–bromine **flow** batteries, and a high specific energy (530 Wh/kg at the tank level) was shown for hydrogen–bromate flow batteries The redox cell uses redox-active species in fluid (liquid or gas) media. Redox flow b...
961. ...tionary energy storage). However a high power of 1.4 W/cm was demonstrated for hydrogen–bromine flow batteries, and a high specific energy (530 Wh/kg at the tank level) was shown for hydrogen–bromate **flow** batteries The redox cell uses redox-active species in fluid (liquid or gas) media. Redox flow batteries are rechargeable (secondary) cells. Because they employ heterogeneous electron transfer rather...
962. ...e flow batteries, and a high specific energy (530 Wh/kg at the tank level) was shown for hydrogen–bromate flow batteries The redox cell uses redox-active species in fluid (liquid or gas) media. Redox **flow** batteries are rechargeable (secondary) cells. Because they employ heterogeneous electron transfer rather than solid-state diffusion or intercalation they are more similar to fuel cells than to conven...
963. ...ding chelating amino-ligands, while hydrogen evolution can be mitigated by adding Pb salts to increase the H overvoltage and Au salts for catalyzing the chromium electrode reaction. Traditional redox **flow** battery chemistries include iron-chromium, vanadium, polysulfide–bromide (Regenesys), and uranium. Redox fuel cells are less common commercially although many have been proposed. Vanadium redox flow...
964. ...flow battery chemistries include iron-chromium, vanadium, polysulfide–bromide (Regenesys), and uranium. Redox fuel cells are less common commercially although many have been proposed. Vanadium redox **flow** batteries are the commercial leaders. They use vanadium at both electrodes, so they do not suffer cross-contamination. The limited solubility of vanadium salts, however, offsets this advantage in pra...
965. ...nt agencies. Major challenges include: low abundance and high costs of VO (> $30 / Kg); parasitic reactions including hydrogen and oxygen evolution; and precipitation of VO during cycling. The hybrid **flow** battery (HFB) uses one or more electroactive components deposited as a solid layer. The major disadvantage is that this reduces decoupled energy and power. The cell contains one battery electrode and...
966. ...cell contains one battery electrode and one fuel cell electrode. This type is limited in energy by the electrode surface area.  HFBs include zinc–bromine, zinc–cerium, soluble lead–acid, and all-iron **flow** batteries. Weng et al. reported a vanadium–metal hydride hybrid flow battery with an experimental OCV of 1.93 V and operating voltage of 1.70 V, relatively high values. It consists of a graphite felt...
967. ...type is limited in energy by the electrode surface area.  HFBs include zinc–bromine, zinc–cerium, soluble lead–acid, and all-iron flow batteries. Weng et al. reported a vanadium–metal hydride hybrid **flow** battery with an experimental OCV of 1.93 V and operating voltage of 1.70 V, relatively high values. It consists of a graphite felt positive electrode operating in a mixed solution of and , and a meta...
968. ...cm electrodes, and series operation. Preliminary data using a fluctuating simulated power input tested the viability toward kWh scale storage. In 2016, a high energy density Mn(VI)/Mn(VII)-Zn hybrid **flow** battery was proposed. A prototype zinc–polyiodide flow battery demonstrated an energy density of 167 Wh/L. Older zinc–bromide cells reach 70 Wh/L. For comparison, lithium iron phosphate batteries sto...
969. ...using a fluctuating simulated power input tested the viability toward kWh scale storage. In 2016, a high energy density Mn(VI)/Mn(VII)-Zn hybrid flow battery was proposed. A prototype zinc–polyiodide **flow** battery demonstrated an energy density of 167 Wh/L. Older zinc–bromide cells reach 70 Wh/L. For comparison, lithium iron phosphate batteries store 325 Wh/L. The zinc–polyiodide battery is claimed to...
970. ...d an energy density of 167 Wh/L. Older zinc–bromide cells reach 70 Wh/L. For comparison, lithium iron phosphate batteries store 325 Wh/L. The zinc–polyiodide battery is claimed to be safer than other **flow** batteries given its absence of acidic electrolytes, nonflammability and operating range of that does not require extensive cooling circuitry, which would add weight and occupy space. One unresolved i...
971. ...To increase energy density, bromide ions () are used as the complexing agent to stabilize the free iodine, forming iodine–bromide ions () as a means to free up iodide ions for charge storage. Proton **flow** batteries (PFB) integrate a metal hydride storage electrode into a reversible proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cell. During charging, PFB combines hydrogen ions produced from splitting water with...
972. ...process is reversed and the protons are combined with ambient oxygen. Metals less expensive than lithium can be used and provide greater energy density than lithium cells. Compared to inorganic redox **flow** batteries, such as vanadium and Zn-Br batteries. Organic redox flow batteries advantage is the tunable redox properties of its active components. As of 2021, organic RFB experienced low durability (i...
973. .... Metals less expensive than lithium can be used and provide greater energy density than lithium cells. Compared to inorganic redox flow batteries, such as vanadium and Zn-Br batteries. Organic redox **flow** batteries advantage is the tunable redox properties of its active components. As of 2021, organic RFB experienced low durability (i.e. calendar or cycle life, or both) and have not been demonstrated...
974. ...edox properties of its active components. As of 2021, organic RFB experienced low durability (i.e. calendar or cycle life, or both) and have not been demonstrated on a commercial scale. Organic redox **flow** batteries can be further classified into aqueous (AORFBs) and non-aqueous (NAORFBs). AORFBs use water as solvent for electrolyte materials while NAORFBs employ organic solvents. AORFBs and NAORFBs ca...
975. ...alternatives, while showing electrochemical performance comparable to corrosive RFBs. The MV/TEMPO AORFB has an energy density of 8.4Wh/L with the limitation on the TEMPO side. In 2019Viologen-based **flow** batteries using an ultralight sulfonate–viologen/ferrocyanide AORFB were reported to be stable for 1000 cycles at an energy density of 10 Wh/L, the most stable, energy-dense AORFB to that date. Quino...
976. ...ther quinone 9,10-Anthraquinone-2,7-disulfonic acid (AQDS), was evaluated. AQDS undergoes rapid, reversible two-electron/two-proton reduction on a glassy carbon electrode in sulfuric acid. An aqueous **flow** battery with inexpensive carbon electrodes, combining the quinone/hydroquinone couple with the / redox couple, yields a peak galvanic power density exceeding 6,000 W/m at 13,000 A/m. Cycling showed >...
977. ...This has advantages such as diminishing crossover effects. Thus, quinone diaminoanthraquinone and indigo-based molecules as well as TEMPO/phenazine are potential electrolytes for such symmetric redox-**flow** batteries (SRFB). Another approach adopted a Blatter radical as the donor/recipient. It endured 275 charge and discharge cycles in tests, although it was not water-soluble. Quinone and fluorenone mol...
978. ...table catholyte, holding energy densities below 5 Wh/L. Alkaline AORFBs use excess potassium ferrocyanide catholyte because of the stability issue of ferrocyanide in alkaline solutions. Metal-organic **flow** batteries use organic ligands to improve redox properties. The ligands can be chelates such as EDTA, and can enable the electrolyte to be in neutral or alkaline conditions under which metal aquo comp...
979. ...aqueous systems. For example, the use of chromium coordinated to 1,3-propanediaminetetraacetate (PDTA), gave cell potentials of 1.62 V vs. ferrocyanide and a record 2.13 V vs. bromine. Metal-organic **flow** batteries may be known as coordination chemistry flow batteries, such as Lockheed Martin's Gridstar Flow technology. Oligomer redox-species were proposed to reduce crossover, while allowing low-cost...
980. ...rdinated to 1,3-propanediaminetetraacetate (PDTA), gave cell potentials of 1.62 V vs. ferrocyanide and a record 2.13 V vs. bromine. Metal-organic flow batteries may be known as coordination chemistry **flow** batteries, such as Lockheed Martin's Gridstar Flow technology. Oligomer redox-species were proposed to reduce crossover, while allowing low-cost membranes. Such redox-active oligomers are known as re...
981. ...gave cell potentials of 1.62 V vs. ferrocyanide and a record 2.13 V vs. bromine. Metal-organic flow batteries may be known as coordination chemistry flow batteries, such as Lockheed Martin's Gridstar **Flow** technology. Oligomer redox-species were proposed to reduce crossover, while allowing low-cost membranes. Such redox-active oligomers are known as redoxymers. One system uses organic polymers and a sa...
982. ...onal Nafion membrane. RFBs with oligomer redox-species have not demonstrated competitive area-specific power. Low operating current density may be an intrinsic feature of large redox-molecules. Other **flow**-type batteries include the zinc–cerium battery, the zinc–bromine battery, and the hydrogen–bromine battery. A membraneless battery relies on laminar flow in which two liquids are pumped through a cha...
983. ...insic feature of large redox-molecules. Other flow-type batteries include the zinc–cerium battery, the zinc–bromine battery, and the hydrogen–bromine battery. A membraneless battery relies on laminar **flow** in which two liquids are pumped through a channel, where they undergo electrochemical reactions to store or release energy. The solutions pass in parallel, with little mixing. The flow naturally sepa...
984. ...ies on laminar flow in which two liquids are pumped through a channel, where they undergo electrochemical reactions to store or release energy. The solutions pass in parallel, with little mixing. The **flow** naturally separates the liquids, without requiring a membrane. Membranes are often the most costly and least reliable battery components, as they are subject to corrosion by repeated exposure to cert...
985. ...s under a porous anode. At the same time, hydrogen gas flows across the anode. The chemical reaction can be reversed to recharge the battery – a first for a membraneless design. One such membraneless **flow** battery announced in August 2013 produced a maximum power density of 795 kW/cm, three times more than other membraneless systems—and an order of magnitude higher than lithium-ion batteries. In 2018,...
986. ...twork of nanoparticles eliminates the requirement that charge moves in and out of particles that are in direct contact with a conducting plate. Instead, the nanoparticle network allows electricity to **flow** throughout the liquid. This allows more energy to be extracted. In a semi-solid flow battery, positive and negative electrode particles are suspended in a carrier liquid. The suspensions are flow thr...
987. ...ticles that are in direct contact with a conducting plate. Instead, the nanoparticle network allows electricity to flow throughout the liquid. This allows more energy to be extracted. In a semi-solid **flow** battery, positive and negative electrode particles are suspended in a carrier liquid. The suspensions are flow through a stack of reaction chambers, separated by a barrier such as a thin, porous memb...
988. ...to flow throughout the liquid. This allows more energy to be extracted. In a semi-solid flow battery, positive and negative electrode particles are suspended in a carrier liquid. The suspensions are **flow** through a stack of reaction chambers, separated by a barrier such as a thin, porous membrane. The approach combines the basic structure of aqueous-flow batteries, which use electrode material suspend...
989. ...pended in a carrier liquid. The suspensions are flow through a stack of reaction chambers, separated by a barrier such as a thin, porous membrane. The approach combines the basic structure of aqueous-**flow** batteries, which use electrode material suspended in a liquid electrolyte, with the chemistry of lithium-ion batteries in both carbon-free suspensions and slurries with a conductive carbon network. T...
990. ...with the chemistry of lithium-ion batteries in both carbon-free suspensions and slurries with a conductive carbon network. The carbon-free semi-solid RFB is also referred to as solid dispersion redox **flow** batteries. Dissolving a material changes its chemical behavior significantly. However, suspending bits of solid material preserves the solid's characteristics. The result is a viscous suspension. In...
991. ...changes its chemical behavior significantly. However, suspending bits of solid material preserves the solid's characteristics. The result is a viscous suspension. In 2022, Influit Energy announced a **flow** battery electrolyte consisting of a metal oxide suspended in an aqueous solution. Flow batteries with redox-targeted solids (ROTS), also known as solid energy boosters (SEBs) either the posolyte or n...
992. ...l preserves the solid's characteristics. The result is a viscous suspension. In 2022, Influit Energy announced a flow battery electrolyte consisting of a metal oxide suspended in an aqueous solution. **Flow** batteries with redox-targeted solids (ROTS), also known as solid energy boosters (SEBs) either the posolyte or negolyte or both (a.k.a. redox fluids), come in contact with one or more solid electroac...
993. ...tentials flanking the redox potential of the SEM. Such SEB/RFBs combine the high specific energy advantage of conventional batteries (such as lithium-ion) with the decoupled energy-power advantage of **flow** batteries. SEB(ROTS) RFBs have advantages compared to semi-solid RFBs, such as no need to pump viscous slurries, no precipitation/clogging, higher area-specific power, longer durability, and wider ch...
994. ...he SEB(ROTS) and a mediator), such batteries suffer from poor energy efficiency. On a system-level, the practical specific energy of traditional lithium-ion batteries is larger than that of SEB(ROTS)-**flow** versions of lithium-ion batteries. Technical merits make redox flow batteries well-suited for large-scale energy storage. Flow batteries are normally considered for relatively large (1 kWh – 10 MWh)...
995. ...efficiency. On a system-level, the practical specific energy of traditional lithium-ion batteries is larger than that of SEB(ROTS)-flow versions of lithium-ion batteries. Technical merits make redox **flow** batteries well-suited for large-scale energy storage. Flow batteries are normally considered for relatively large (1 kWh – 10 MWh) stationary applications with multi-hour charge-discharge cycles. Flo...
996. ...gy of traditional lithium-ion batteries is larger than that of SEB(ROTS)-flow versions of lithium-ion batteries. Technical merits make redox flow batteries well-suited for large-scale energy storage. **Flow** batteries are normally considered for relatively large (1 kWh – 10 MWh) stationary applications with multi-hour charge-discharge cycles. Flow batteries are not cost-efficient for shorter charge/disch...
997. ...low batteries well-suited for large-scale energy storage. Flow batteries are normally considered for relatively large (1 kWh – 10 MWh) stationary applications with multi-hour charge-discharge cycles. **Flow** batteries are not cost-efficient for shorter charge/discharge times. Market niches include: Avalanche breakdown Avalanche breakdown (or the avalanche effect) is a phenomenon that can occur in both in...
998. ...hydrocarbon and groundwater monitoring. Research applications include experimentation to further develop the MT technique, long-period deep crustal exploration, deep mantle probing, sub-glacial water **flow** mapping, and earthquake precursor research. The magnetotelluric technique was introduced independently by Japanese scientists in 1948 (Hirayama, Rikitake), Soviet geophysicist Andrey Nikolayevich Tik...
999. ...ator LED will light up or a speaker will buzz, if the conductor being tested is live. Additional energy to light the lamp and power the amplifier is supplied by a small internal battery, and does not **flow** through the user's body. When the device is placed near a live conductor, a capacitive voltage divider is established, comprising the parasitic capacitance between the conductor and the sensor, and b...
1000. ...ory. When the magnetic Reynolds number is very large, however, diffusion and the dynamo are less of a concern, and in this case focus instead often rests on the influence of the magnetic field on the **flow**. In the theory of magnetohydrodynamics, the magnetic Reynolds number can be derived from the induction equation: where The first term on the right hand side accounts for effects from magnetic inducti...
1001. ...is therefore For formula_17, advection is relatively unimportant, and so the magnetic field will tend to relax towards a purely diffusive state, determined by the boundary conditions rather than the **flow**. For formula_18, diffusion is relatively unimportant on the length scale "L". Flux lines of the magnetic field are then advected with the fluid flow, until such time as gradients are concentrated int...
1002. ...ermined by the boundary conditions rather than the flow. For formula_18, diffusion is relatively unimportant on the length scale "L". Flux lines of the magnetic field are then advected with the fluid **flow**, until such time as gradients are concentrated into regions of short enough length scale that diffusion can balance advection. The Sun has a large formula_9, of order 10. Dissipative affects are gene...
1003. ...a_9 must be large enough such that induction outweighs diffusion. It is not the absolute magnitude of velocity that is important for induction, but rather the relative differences and shearing in the **flow**, which stretch and fold magnetic field lines . A more appropriate form for the magnetic Reynolds number in this case is therefore where S is a measure of strain. One of the most well known results is...
1004. ...lds number in this case is therefore where S is a measure of strain. One of the most well known results is due to Backus  which states that the minimum formula_9 for generation of a magnetic field by **flow** in a sphere is such that where formula_26 is the radius of the sphere and formula_27 is the maximum strain rate. This bound has since been improved by approximately 25% by Proctor. Many studies of th...
1005. ...ula_26 is the radius of the sphere and formula_27 is the maximum strain rate. This bound has since been improved by approximately 25% by Proctor. Many studies of the generation of magnetic field by a **flow** consider the computationally-convenient periodic cube. In this case the minimum is found to be where formula_29 is the root-mean-square strain over a scaled domain with sides of length formula_30. If...
1006. ...ular physical field and have the form of the product of a velocity and a length divided by a diffusivity. While the magnetic Reynolds number is related to the magnetic field in an magnetohydrodynamic **flow**, the Reynolds number is related to the fluid velocity itself and the Péclet number is related to heat. The dimensionless groups arise in the non-dimensionalization of the respective governing equatio...
1007. ...oroidal (pointed around the equator of the Sun) rather than poloidal (pointed from the North to the South pole, as in a bar magnet) or radial (pointed outward or inward, as might be expected from the **flow** of the solar wind if the Sun were not rotating). The spiral shape also greatly amplifies the strength of the solar magnetic field in the outer Solar System. The Parker spiral may be responsible for t...
1008. ...es Alfvén and Per Carlqvist speculate on the existence of a galactic current sheet, a counterpart of the heliospheric current sheet, with an estimated galactic current of 10 to 10 amperes, that might **flow** in the plane of symmetry of the galaxy. Abraham–Lorentz force In the physics of electromagnetism, the Abraham–Lorentz force (also known as the Lorentz–Abraham force) is the reaction force on an accel...
1009. ...ich occurs in electrical components in electric circuits. From the standpoint of electric power, components in an electric circuit can be divided into two categories: If electric current is forced to **flow** through the device in the direction from the lower electric potential to the higher, so positive charges move from the negative to the positive terminal, work will be done "on" the charges, and energ...
1010. .... In alternating current (AC) circuits the direction of the voltage periodically reverses, but the current always flows from the higher potential to the lower potential side. Since electric power can **flow** either into or out of a component, a convention is needed for which direction represents positive power flow. Electric power flowing "out" of a circuit "into" a component is arbitrarily defined to ha...
1011. ...ways flows from the higher potential to the lower potential side. Since electric power can flow either into or out of a component, a convention is needed for which direction represents positive power **flow**. Electric power flowing "out" of a circuit "into" a component is arbitrarily defined to have a positive sign, while power flowing "into" a circuit from a component is defined to have a negative sign....
1012. ...rmula_2 where "R" is the electrical resistance. In alternating current circuits, energy storage elements such as inductance and capacitance may result in periodic reversals of the direction of energy **flow**. The portion of energy flow (power) that, averaged over a complete cycle of the AC waveform, results in net transfer of energy in one direction is known as real power (also referred to as active powe...
1013. ...ctrical resistance. In alternating current circuits, energy storage elements such as inductance and capacitance may result in periodic reversals of the direction of energy flow. The portion of energy **flow** (power) that, averaged over a complete cycle of the AC waveform, results in net transfer of energy in one direction is known as real power (also referred to as active power). The amplitude of that po...
1014. ...veraged over a complete cycle of the AC waveform, results in net transfer of energy in one direction is known as real power (also referred to as active power). The amplitude of that portion of energy **flow** (power) that results in no net transfer of energy but instead oscillates between the source and load in each cycle due to stored energy, is known as the absolute value of reactive power. The product...
1015. ...ion as turbine-based power generators are replaced with solar and wind energy. A rotating coil in a magnetic field tends to produce a sine-wave voltage. When connected to a circuit, some current will **flow** depending on how the voltage on the system is different from this open-circuit voltage. Note that mechanical torque (produced by a motor, required by a generator) corresponds only to the real power....
1016. ...la_28 and formula_5 will all be in phase, and formula_17 will be entirely reactive (i.e. in phase quadrature). Viewed from the supply side of the machine's terminals, a negative reactive current will **flow** out of the terminals, and the machine will therefore appear as a capacitor, the magnitude of whose reactance will fall as formula_31 increases above formula_32. If formula_6 is adjusted to be less th...
1017. ...itude of whose reactance will fall as formula_31 increases above formula_32. If formula_6 is adjusted to be less than formula_14, formula_5 will exceed formula_7, and a positive reactive current will **flow** into the machine. The machine will then appear as an inductor whose reactance falls as formula_6 is reduced further. These conditions correspond to the two rising arms of the V-curves (above). In a p...
1018. ...he field at a perpendicular angle and the side of the cylinder are parallel to the field lines. Ballistic conduction In mesoscopic physics, ballistic conduction (ballistic transport) is the unimpeded **flow** (or transport) of charge carriers (usually electrons), or energy-carrying particles, over relatively long distances in a material. In general, the resistivity of a material exists because an electron...
1019. ...be wasted since the low voltage of a nearly depleted battery makes it unusable for a normal load. This energy would otherwise remain untapped because many applications do not allow enough current to **flow** through a load when voltage decreases. This voltage decrease occurs as batteries become depleted, and is a characteristic of the ubiquitous alkaline battery. Since the equation for power is formula_2...
1020. ...metallic complex [Co(NH)("μ"-Cl)Cr(HO)], wherein ""μ"-Cl" indicates that the chloride bridges between the Cr and Co atoms, serving as a ligand for both. This chloride serves as a conduit for electron **flow** from Cr(II) to Co(III), forming Cr(III) and Co(II). Outer sphere electron transfer Outer sphere refers to an electron transfer (ET) event that occurs between chemical species that remain separate and...
1021. ...l produce a voltage drop across the inductor (opposite to the drop at on-state), and now the inductor becomes a current source. The stored energy in the inductor's magnetic field supports the current **flow** through the load. This current, flowing while the input voltage source is disconnected, when appended to the current flowing during on-state, totals to current greater than the average input current...
1022. ...erent conducting valley pairs. The shifting causes a redistribution of the carriers between valleys with different mobilities. This results in varying mobilities dependent on the direction of current **flow**. A minor effect is due to the effective mass change related to changing shapes of the valleys. In p-conducting silicon the phenomena are more complex and also result in mass changes and hole transfer...
1023. ...spectral density. Control system components; block diagrammatic description, reduction of block diagrams. Open loop and closed loop (feedback) systems and stability analysis of these systems. Signal **flow** graphs and their use in determining transfer functions of systems; transient and steady state analysis of LTI control systems and frequency response. Tools and techniques for LTI control system analy...
1024. ...trostatic induction is. During the induction process, there is an electric current that flows in the form of positive or negative ions in the water of the supply lines. This is separate from the bulk **flow** of water that falls through the rings and breaks into droplets on the way to the containers. For example, as water approaches the negatively charged ring on the right, any free electrons in the water...
1025. ...aks into droplets on the way to the containers. For example, as water approaches the negatively charged ring on the right, any free electrons in the water can easily flee toward the left, against the **flow** of water. Eventually, when both buckets have become highly charged, several different effects may be seen. An electric spark may briefly arc between the two buckets or rings, decreasing the charge on...
1026. ...the electrostatic attraction via Coulomb's law of opposite charges. As charging increases, a smooth and steady stream may fan out due to self-repulsion of the net charges in the stream. If the water **flow** is set such that it breaks into droplets in the vicinity of the rings, the drops may be attracted to the rings enough to touch the rings and deposit their charge on the oppositely charged rings, whic...
1027. ...he operation of a van de Graaff generator. The discussion above is in terms of charged droplets falling. The inductive charging effects occur while the water stream is continuous. This is because the **flow** and separation of charge occurs already when the streams of water approach the rings, so that when the water passes through the rings there is already net charge on the water. When drops form, some n...
1028. ...the switch is open, the current through the inductor is zero. When the switch is first closed, the blocking diode prevents current from flowing into the right hand side of the circuit, so it must all **flow** through the inductor. However, since the inductor doesn't allow rapid current change, it will initially keep the current low by opposing the voltage provided by the source. Over time, the inductor wi...
1029. ...osed by Benjamin Franklin's "one-fluid theory" later in the century. In 1745, Jean-Antoine Nollet developed a theory of electrical attraction and repulsion that supposed the existence of a continuous **flow** of electrical matter between charged bodies. Nollet's theory at first gained wide acceptance, but met resistance in 1752 with the translation of Franklin's "Experiments and Observations on Electricit...
1030. ...nt organ for the secretion of this "electric fluid" and that the nerves conducted the fluid to the muscles. He believed the tissues acted similarly to the outer and inner surfaces of Leyden jars. The **flow** of this electric fluid provided a stimulus to the muscle fibres. Galvani's scientific colleagues generally accepted his views, but Alessandro Volta, the outstanding professor of physics at the Univer...
1031. ...ond graph A bond graph is a graphical representation of a physical dynamic system. It allows the conversion of the system into a state-space representation. It is similar to a block diagram or signal-**flow** graph, with the major difference that the arcs in bond graphs represent bi-directional exchange of physical energy, while those in block diagrams and signal-flow graphs represent uni-directional flow...
1032. ...similar to a block diagram or signal-flow graph, with the major difference that the arcs in bond graphs represent bi-directional exchange of physical energy, while those in block diagrams and signal-**flow** graphs represent uni-directional flow of information. Bond graphs are multi-energy domain (e.g. mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, etc.) and domain neutral. This means a bond graph can incorporate mu...
1033. ...flow graph, with the major difference that the arcs in bond graphs represent bi-directional exchange of physical energy, while those in block diagrams and signal-flow graphs represent uni-directional **flow** of information. Bond graphs are multi-energy domain (e.g. mechanical, electrical, hydraulic, etc.) and domain neutral. This means a bond graph can incorporate multiple domains seamlessly. The bond gr...
1034. ...omains seamlessly. The bond graph is composed of the "bonds" which link together "single-port", "double-port" and "multi-port" elements (see below for details). Each bond represents the instantaneous **flow** of energy () or power. The flow in each bond is denoted by a pair of variables called power variables, akin to conjugate variables, whose product is the instantaneous power of the bond. The power var...
1035. ...h is composed of the "bonds" which link together "single-port", "double-port" and "multi-port" elements (see below for details). Each bond represents the instantaneous flow of energy () or power. The **flow** in each bond is denoted by a pair of variables called power variables, akin to conjugate variables, whose product is the instantaneous power of the bond. The power variables are broken into two parts...
1036. ...each bond is denoted by a pair of variables called power variables, akin to conjugate variables, whose product is the instantaneous power of the bond. The power variables are broken into two parts: "**flow**" and "effort". For example, for the bond of an electrical system, the flow is the current, while the effort is the voltage. By multiplying current and voltage in this example you can get the instanta...
1037. ...o conjugate variables, whose product is the instantaneous power of the bond. The power variables are broken into two parts: "flow" and "effort". For example, for the bond of an electrical system, the **flow** is the current, while the effort is the voltage. By multiplying current and voltage in this example you can get the instantaneous power of the bond. A bond has two other features described briefly he...
1038. ...r of the bond. A bond has two other features described briefly here, and discussed in more detail below. One is the "half-arrow" sign convention. This defines the assumed direction of positive energy **flow**. As with electrical circuit diagrams and free-body diagrams, the choice of positive direction is arbitrary, with the caveat that the analyst must be consistent throughout with the chosen definition....
1039. .... As described below, there are rules for assigning the proper causality to a given port, and rules for the precedence among ports. Causality explains the mathematical relationship between effort and **flow**. The positions of the causalities show which of the power variables are dependent and which are independent. If the dynamics of the physical system to be modeled operate on widely varying time scales...
1040. ...graph. These terms are expressed in the table below. Conventions for the table below: Other systems: The tetrahedron of state is a tetrahedron that graphically shows the conversion between effort and **flow**. The adjacent image shows the tetrahedron in its generalized form. The tetrahedron can be modified depending on the energy domain. Using the tetrahedron of state, one can find a mathematical relation...
1041. ...iables on the tetrahedron. This is done by following the arrows around the diagram and multiplying any constants along the way. For example, if you wanted to find the relationship between generalized **flow** and generalized displacement, you would start at the and then integrate it to get . More examples of equations can be seen below. Relationship between generalized displacement and generalized flow. f...
1042. ...ed flow and generalized displacement, you would start at the and then integrate it to get . More examples of equations can be seen below. Relationship between generalized displacement and generalized **flow**. formula_9 Relationship between generalized flow and generalized effort. formula_10 Relationship between generalized flow and generalized momentum. formula_11 Relationship between generalized momentu...
1043. ...tart at the and then integrate it to get . More examples of equations can be seen below. Relationship between generalized displacement and generalized flow. formula_9 Relationship between generalized **flow** and generalized effort. formula_10 Relationship between generalized flow and generalized momentum. formula_11 Relationship between generalized momentum and generalized effort. formula_12 Relationship...
1044. ...be seen below. Relationship between generalized displacement and generalized flow. formula_9 Relationship between generalized flow and generalized effort. formula_10 Relationship between generalized **flow** and generalized momentum. formula_11 Relationship between generalized momentum and generalized effort. formula_12 Relationship between generalized flow and generalized effort, involving the constant...
1045. ...rt. formula_10 Relationship between generalized flow and generalized momentum. formula_11 Relationship between generalized momentum and generalized effort. formula_12 Relationship between generalized **flow** and generalized effort, involving the constant C. formula_13 All of the mathematical relationships remain the same when switching energy domains, only the symbols change. This can be seen with the fo...
1046. ...ty of the resonance wave is as follows: formula_18 If an engine is connected to a wheel through a shaft, the power is being transmitted in the rotational mechanical domain, meaning the effort and the **flow** are torque (τ) and angular velocity (ω) respectively. A word bond graph is a first step towards a bond graph, in which words define the components. As a word bond graph, this system would look like:...
1047. ...effort for the system. The wheel can be presented by an impedance on the system. Further, the torque and angular velocity symbols are dropped and replaced with the generalized symbols for effort and **flow**. While not necessary in the example, it is common to number the bonds, to keep track of in equations. The simplified diagram can be seen below. formula_21 Given that effort is always above the flow o...
1048. ...d flow. While not necessary in the example, it is common to number the bonds, to keep track of in equations. The simplified diagram can be seen below. formula_21 Given that effort is always above the **flow** on the bond, it is also possible to drop the effort and flow symbols altogether, without losing any relevant information. However, the bond number should not be dropped. The example can be seen below...
1049. ...umber the bonds, to keep track of in equations. The simplified diagram can be seen below. formula_21 Given that effort is always above the flow on the bond, it is also possible to drop the effort and **flow** symbols altogether, without losing any relevant information. However, the bond number should not be dropped. The example can be seen below. formula_22 The bond number will be important later when con...
1050. ...hen it is valid: formula_30 Single-port elements are elements in a bond graph that can have only one port. Sources are elements that represent the input for a system. They will either input effort or **flow** into a system. They are denoted by a capital "S" with either a lower case "e" or "f" for effort or flow respectively. Sources will always have the arrow pointing away from the element. Examples of so...
1051. ...t. Sources are elements that represent the input for a system. They will either input effort or flow into a system. They are denoted by a capital "S" with either a lower case "e" or "f" for effort or **flow** respectively. Sources will always have the arrow pointing away from the element. Examples of sources include: motors (source of effort, torque), voltage sources (source of effort), and current source...
1052. .... Sources will always have the arrow pointing away from the element. Examples of sources include: motors (source of effort, torque), voltage sources (source of effort), and current sources (source of **flow**). formula_31 where "J" indicates a junction. Sinks are elements that represent the output for a system. They are represented the same way as sources, but have the arrow pointing into the element inst...
1053. ...ransformer constant or gyrator constant depending on which element is being used. These constants will commonly be displayed as a ratio below the element. A transformer applies a relationship between **flow** in flow out, and effort in effort out. Examples include an ideal electrical transformer or a lever. Denoted formula_36 where the "r" denotes the modulus of the transformer. This means formula_37 and...
1054. ...er constant or gyrator constant depending on which element is being used. These constants will commonly be displayed as a ratio below the element. A transformer applies a relationship between flow in **flow** out, and effort in effort out. Examples include an ideal electrical transformer or a lever. Denoted formula_36 where the "r" denotes the modulus of the transformer. This means formula_37 and formula_...
1055. ...lude an ideal electrical transformer or a lever. Denoted formula_36 where the "r" denotes the modulus of the transformer. This means formula_37 and formula_38 A gyrator applies a relationship between **flow** in effort out, and effort in flow out. An example of a gyrator is a DC motor, which converts voltage (electrical effort) into angular velocity (angular mechanical flow). formula_39 meaning that formu...
1056. ...er or a lever. Denoted formula_36 where the "r" denotes the modulus of the transformer. This means formula_37 and formula_38 A gyrator applies a relationship between flow in effort out, and effort in **flow** out. An example of a gyrator is a DC motor, which converts voltage (electrical effort) into angular velocity (angular mechanical flow). formula_39 meaning that formula_40 and formula_41 Junctions, un...
1057. ...applies a relationship between flow in effort out, and effort in flow out. An example of a gyrator is a DC motor, which converts voltage (electrical effort) into angular velocity (angular mechanical **flow**). formula_39 meaning that formula_40 and formula_41 Junctions, unlike the other elements can have any number of ports either in or out. Junctions split power across their ports. There are two distinc...
1058. ...ements can have any number of ports either in or out. Junctions split power across their ports. There are two distinct junctions, the 0-junction and the 1-junction which differ only in how effort and **flow** are carried across. The same junction in series can be combined, but different junctions in series cannot. 0-junctions behave such that all effort values (and its time integral/derivative) are equal...
1059. ...n in series can be combined, but different junctions in series cannot. 0-junctions behave such that all effort values (and its time integral/derivative) are equal across the bonds, but the sum of the **flow** values in equals the sum of the flow values out, or equivalently, all flows sum to zero. In an electrical circuit, the 0-junction is a node and represents a voltage shared by all components at that n...
1060. ...erent junctions in series cannot. 0-junctions behave such that all effort values (and its time integral/derivative) are equal across the bonds, but the sum of the flow values in equals the sum of the **flow** values out, or equivalently, all flows sum to zero. In an electrical circuit, the 0-junction is a node and represents a voltage shared by all components at that node. In a mechanical circuit, the 0-j...
1061. ...ts connected to it. formula_42 formula_43 An example is shown below. formula_44 Resulting equations: formula_45 formula_46 1-junctions behave opposite of 0-junctions. 1-junctions behave such that all **flow** values (and its time integral/derivative) are equal across the bonds, but the sum of the effort values in equals the sum the effort values out, or equivalently, all efforts sum to zero. In an electri...
1062. ...ormula_49 Resulting equations: formula_50 formula_51 Bond graphs have a notion of causality, indicating which side of a bond determines the instantaneous effort and which determines the instantaneous **flow**. In formulating the dynamic equations that describe the system, causality defines, for each modeling element, which variable is dependent and which is independent. By propagating the causation graphi...
1063. ...ave the same voltage (effort variable) as that across the capacitor. Similarly, an inductor cannot change flux instantly and so any component in series with an inductor will necessarily have the same **flow** as the inductor. Because capacitors and inductors are passive devices, they cannot maintain their respective voltage and flow indefinitely—the components to which they are attached will affect their...
1064. ...o any component in series with an inductor will necessarily have the same flow as the inductor. Because capacitors and inductors are passive devices, they cannot maintain their respective voltage and **flow** indefinitely—the components to which they are attached will affect their respective voltage and flow, but only indirectly by affecting their current and voltage respectively. Note: Causality is a sym...
1065. ...se capacitors and inductors are passive devices, they cannot maintain their respective voltage and flow indefinitely—the components to which they are attached will affect their respective voltage and **flow**, but only indirectly by affecting their current and voltage respectively. Note: Causality is a symmetric relationship. When one side "causes" effort, the other side "causes" flow. In bond graph notat...
1066. ...spective voltage and flow, but only indirectly by affecting their current and voltage respectively. Note: Causality is a symmetric relationship. When one side "causes" effort, the other side "causes" **flow**. In bond graph notation, a causal stroke may be added to one end of the power bond to indicate that this side is defining the "flow". Consequently, the side opposite from the casual stroke controls t...
1067. ...elationship. When one side "causes" effort, the other side "causes" flow. In bond graph notation, a causal stroke may be added to one end of the power bond to indicate that this side is defining the "**flow**". Consequently, the side opposite from the casual stroke controls the "effort". Sources of flow (formula_52) define flow, so they host the causal stroke: formula_53 Sources of effort (formula_54) def...
1068. ..., a causal stroke may be added to one end of the power bond to indicate that this side is defining the "flow". Consequently, the side opposite from the casual stroke controls the "effort". Sources of **flow** (formula_52) define flow, so they host the causal stroke: formula_53 Sources of effort (formula_54) define effort, so the other end hosts the causal stroke:  formula_55 Consider a constant-torque mot...
1069. ...added to one end of the power bond to indicate that this side is defining the "flow". Consequently, the side opposite from the casual stroke controls the "effort". Sources of flow (formula_52) define **flow**, so they host the causal stroke: formula_53 Sources of effort (formula_54) define effort, so the other end hosts the causal stroke:  formula_55 Consider a constant-torque motor driving a wheel, i.e....
1070. ...tant-torque motor driving a wheel, i.e. a source of effort (formula_54). That would be drawn as follows: formula_57 Symmetrically, the side with the causal stroke (in this case the wheel) defines the **flow** for the bond. Causality results in compatibility constraints. Clearly only one end of a power bond can define the effort and so only one end of a bond can (the other end) have a causal stroke. In add...
1071. ...her end) have a causal stroke. In addition, the two passive components with time-dependent behavior, formula_58 and formula_59, can only have one sort of causation: an formula_58 component determines **flow**; a formula_59 component defines effort. So from a junction, formula_62, the preferred causal orientation is as follows: formula_63 These equations can be manipulated to yield the state equations. For...
1072. ...other similar technology (and Z-RAM competitor) developed at Toshiba and refined at Intel is Floating Body Cell (FBC). Glasser effect The Glasser effect describes the creation of singularities in the **flow** field of a magnetically confined plasma when small resonant perturbations modify the gradient of the pressure field. Electronic kit An electronic kit is a package of electrical components used to bui...
1073. ...of computing the "E" (electric) and "H" (magnetic) fields across the problem domain (e.g., to calculate antenna radiation pattern for an arbitrarily shaped antenna structure). Also calculating power **flow** direction (Poynting vector), a waveguide's normal modes, media-generated wave dispersion, and scattering can be computed from the "E" and "H" fields. CEM models may or may not assume symmetry, simpli...
1074. ...y modeled by CEM in time domain, by FDTD. Curved geometrical objects are treated more accurately as finite elements FEM, or non-orthogonal grids. Beam propagation method (BPM) can solve for the power **flow** in waveguides. CEM is application specific, even if different techniques converge to the same field and power distributions in the modeled domain. The most common numerical approach is to discretize...
1075. ...rix is quite sparse. Each bus in a real power system is usually connected to only a few other buses through the transmission lines. The nodal admittance matrix is used in the formulation of the power **flow** problem. The nodal admittance matrix of a power system is a form of Laplacian matrix of the nodal admittance diagram of the power system, which is derived by the application of Kirchhoff's laws to th...
1076. ...ay make formula_29 asymmetrical. For instance, modeling phase-shifting transformers, results in a Hermitian admittance matrix. The admittance matrix is most often used in the formulation of the power **flow** problem. Parasitic capacitance Parasitic capacitance or stray capacitance is the unavoidable and usually unwanted capacitance that exists between the parts of an electronic component or circuit simpl...
1077. ...electricity consumption in near real-time. This allows utility companies to charge different prices for consumption according to the time of day and the season. It also facilitates more accurate cash-**flow** models for utilities. Since smart meters can be read remotely, labor costs are reduced for utilities. Smart metering offers potential benefits to customers. These include, a) an end to estimated bill...
1078. ...nt bonding jumper is found in main electrical panels, where the system neutral conductor is connected to earth ground. This must be done at only one point in each separately derived system to prevent **flow** of objectionable current in the earth.  Bonding jumpers may be installed wherever metal parts are free to move on a hinge or bearing. This is done for electrical safety grounding, static electricity...
1079. ...e exponentially-increasing electrons and ions rapidly cause regions of the air in the gap to become electrically conductive in a process called dielectric breakdown. Once the gap breaks down, current **flow** is limited by the available charge (for an electrostatic discharge) or by the impedance of the external power supply. If the power supply continues to supply current, the spark will evolve into a con...
1080. ...formula_34 and the Shockley ideal diode equation. The small current that flows under high reverse bias is then the result of thermal generation of electron–hole pairs in the layer. The electrons then **flow** to the n terminal, and the holes to the p terminal. The concentrations of electrons and holes in the layer is so small that recombination there is negligible. In 1950, Shockley and coworkers publishe...
1081. ...is the vacuum pump. Such invention is used to remove gas molecules from sealed volume, thus leaving behind a partial vacuum. More than one vacuum pump is used in a single application to create fluent **flow**. Fluent flow is used to allow a clear path made using vacuum to remove any air molecules in the way of the process. Vacuum will be used in this process to attempt to create a perfect vacuum. A type o...
1082. ...pump. Such invention is used to remove gas molecules from sealed volume, thus leaving behind a partial vacuum. More than one vacuum pump is used in a single application to create fluent flow. Fluent **flow** is used to allow a clear path made using vacuum to remove any air molecules in the way of the process. Vacuum will be used in this process to attempt to create a perfect vacuum. A type of vacuum such...
1083. ...ded in the Wildstorm reality, Voodoo and the other WildC.A.T.S were sent to capture him. Voodoo displayed magnetic abilities that allowed her to control the metal of his uniform, and even disrupt the **flow** of iron in his bloodstream. However, when she attempted to use her telepathy to probe his mind, he connected her brain to all of the information in the world, which overloaded her mind and rendered h...
1084. ...he AC switch arrow vertical. Similarly, to use the AC ranges, the DC switch must be set to its "AC" position. With the DC switch set to its "AC" position and the AC switch set to "DC", no current can **flow** through the instrument. However whenever any moving coil instrument is likely to be subjected to heavy shock in transit, it is good practice to damp the movement by short circuiting the moving coil u...
1085. ...lly [Pb(MgNb)O][PbTiO] (PMN-10PT), as the active material in an active electrocaloric regenerator (AER). The device achieved a significant temperature span across the regenerator by employing a fluid **flow** system and a controlled electric field. Experimental results demonstrated a temperature span of up to 3.3 K under an applied electric field of 50 kV/cm. Moreover, simulations indicated that with desi...
1086. ...itself using the 'wires model'. It describes the basic components used to transport electricity. Measurements of power are modeled by another class. These measurements support the management of power **flow** at the transmission level, and by extension, the modeling of power through a revenue meter on the distribution network. The CIM can be used to derive 'design artifacts' (e.g. XML or RDF Schemas) as n...
1087. ...uantum. Supercurrent A supercurrent is a superconducting current, that is, electric current which flows without dissipation in a superconductor. Under certain conditions, an electric current can also **flow** without dissipation in microscopically small non-superconducting metals. However, currents in such perfect conductors are not called supercurrents, but persistent currents. Voltage droop Voltage droo...
1088. ...led, right to the return path. For a power supply line, a bypass capacitor from the supply voltage line to the power supply return (neutral) would be used. High frequencies and transient currents can **flow** through a capacitor to circuit ground instead of to the harder path of the decoupled circuit, but DC cannot go through the capacitor and continues to the decoupled circuit. Another kind of decoupling...
1089. ...Lina who uses fire-related ones. Naga knows and can use the ultimate shamanistic and white magic spells (Ra Tilt and Resurrection), is able to stop living-dead powered via necromancy with a powerful **Flow** Break spell, and has learnt Levitation by just observing its use by Lina. According to Kanzaka, Naga and Lina are the mightiest human magic users in the world of "Slayers" and Naga actually has a lar...
1090. ...is assumed that the total flux is composed of three elements: diffusion, advection, and electromigration. This implies that the concentration is affected by an ionic concentration gradient formula_4, **flow** velocity formula_5, and an electric field formula_6: where formula_8 is the diffusivity of the chemical species, formula_9 is the valence of ionic species, formula_10 is the elementary charge, formul...
1091. ...formula_11 is the Boltzmann constant, and formula_12 is the absolute temperature. The electric field may be further decomposed as: Assuming that the concentration is at equilibrium formula_16 and the **flow** velocity is zero, meaning that only the ion species moves, the Nernst–Planck equation takes the form: Rather than a general electric field, if we assume that only the electrostatic component is signi...
1092. ...e of use and portability of the equipment. It is familiar in the consumer market as a simple instrument for estimating body fat. BIA actually determines the electrical impedance, or opposition to the **flow** of an electric current through body tissues, which can then be used to estimate total body water (TBW), which can be used to estimate fat-free body mass and, by difference with body weight, body fat....
1093. ...asma channel is a conductive channel of plasma. A plasma channel can be formed in the following ways. A plasma channel has a low electrical resistance and, once formed, will permit continuous current **flow** if the energy source that heats the plasma can be maintained. Unlike a normal electrical conductor, the resistance (and voltage drop) across an unconfined plasma channel decreases with increasing cur...
1094. ...he energy source that heats the plasma can be maintained. Unlike a normal electrical conductor, the resistance (and voltage drop) across an unconfined plasma channel decreases with increasing current **flow**, a property called negative resistance. As a result, an electric spark that initially required a very high voltage to initiate avalanche breakdown within the insulating gas will rapidly evolve into a...
1095. ...he dielectric, causing a net positive charge to collect on one plate and net negative charge to collect on the other plate. No current actually flows through a perfect dielectric. However, there is a **flow** of charge through the source circuit. If the condition is maintained sufficiently long, the current through the source circuit ceases. If a time-varying voltage is applied across the leads of the cap...
1096. ...og filter networks, they smooth the output of power supplies. In resonant circuits they tune radios to particular frequencies. In electric power transmission systems, they stabilize voltage and power **flow**. The property of energy storage in capacitors was exploited as dynamic memory in early digital computers, and still is in modern DRAM. Natural capacitors have existed since prehistoric times. The mos...
1097. ...is case, capacitance is defined in terms of incremental changes: formula_2 In the hydraulic analogy, voltage is analogous to water pressure and electrical current through a wire is analogous to water **flow** through a pipe. A capacitor is like an elastic diaphragm within the pipe. Although water cannot pass through the diaphragm, it moves as the diaphragm stretches or un-stretches. In a circuit, a capaci...
1098. ...e of field between the plates, confirming that the energy in the capacitor is stored in its electric field. The current "I"("t") through any component in an electric circuit is defined as the rate of **flow** of a charge "Q"("t") passing through it. Actual charges – electrons – cannot pass through the dielectric of an "ideal" capacitor. Rather, one electron accumulates on the negative plate for each one t...
1099. ...hose frequency may be constant or varying. Ripple current causes heat to be generated within the capacitor due to the dielectric losses caused by the changing field strength together with the current **flow** across the slightly resistive supply lines or the electrolyte in the capacitor. The equivalent series resistance (ESR) is the amount of internal series resistance one would add to a perfect capacitor...
1100. ...charge conservation equations, as in this article, and solving them with a computer algebra tool. For hand analysis and for getting more insight into the circuits, it is also possible to do a Signal-**flow** graph analysis, with a method that is very similar for switched-capacitor and continuous-time circuits. Helical railgun Helical railguns are multi-turn railguns that reduce rail and brush current by...
1101. ...iency as high as 32%, the highest reported in the literature as of 2007. Galvanic isolation Galvanic isolation is a principle of isolating functional sections of electrical systems to prevent current **flow**; no direct conduction path is permitted. Energy or information can still be exchanged between the sections by other means, such as capacitive, inductive, radiative, optical, acoustic, or mechanical c...
1102. ...data signals. A common use is for the feedback signal in a switching power supply, with the actual power transmitted through a high frequency transformer. Capacitors allow alternating current (AC) to **flow**, but block direct current (DC); they capacitively couple AC signals between circuits that may or may not be at different DC voltages. Although isolated power is usually done with a transformer, it ca...
1103. ...shock hazard safety is required, either other means of isolation should be used in place of capacitors or its value should be properly calculated as per safety standards, as there is always a current **flow** through capacitor depending on its value, when connected in any AC circuit in series configuration. Hall-effect sensors allow an inductor to transfer information across a small gap magnetically. Unli...
1104. ..."float" relative to ground to avoid potential ground loops. Power isolation transformers increase the safety of a device, so that a person touching a live portion of the circuit will not have current **flow** through them to earth. Power sockets intended for electric razor supply may use an isolation transformer to prevent an electric shock if the razor should be dropped into water, although a ground faul...
1105. ...direct current stimulation works by sending constant, low direct current through the electrodes. When these electrodes are placed in the region of interest, the current induces intracerebral current **flow**. This current flow then either increases or decreases the neuronal excitability in the specific area being stimulated based on which type of stimulation is being used. This change of neuronal excitab...
1106. ...mulation works by sending constant, low direct current through the electrodes. When these electrodes are placed in the region of interest, the current induces intracerebral current flow. This current **flow** then either increases or decreases the neuronal excitability in the specific area being stimulated based on which type of stimulation is being used. This change of neuronal excitability leads to alte...
1107. ...sue, to the cathode, creating a circuit. Note that in traditional electric circuits constructed from metal wires, charge drift is created by the motion of negatively charged electrons, which actually **flow** from cathode to anode. However, in biological systems, such as the head, current is usually created by the flow of ions, which may be positively or negatively chargedpositive ions will flow towards t...
1108. ..., charge drift is created by the motion of negatively charged electrons, which actually flow from cathode to anode. However, in biological systems, such as the head, current is usually created by the **flow** of ions, which may be positively or negatively chargedpositive ions will flow towards the cathode; negative ions will flow toward the anode. The device may control the current as well as the duration...
1109. ...actually flow from cathode to anode. However, in biological systems, such as the head, current is usually created by the flow of ions, which may be positively or negatively chargedpositive ions will **flow** towards the cathode; negative ions will flow toward the anode. The device may control the current as well as the duration of stimulation. To set up the tDCS device, the electrodes and the skin need t...
1110. ..., in biological systems, such as the head, current is usually created by the flow of ions, which may be positively or negatively chargedpositive ions will flow towards the cathode; negative ions will **flow** toward the anode. The device may control the current as well as the duration of stimulation. To set up the tDCS device, the electrodes and the skin need to be prepared. This ensures a low resistance...
1111. ...thing to stop a flash from going out of control. Once an arc flash begins in a breaker, it can quickly migrate from a single circuit to the busbars of the panel itself, allowing very high energies to **flow**. Precautions must usually be used when switching circuit breakers, such as standing off to the side while switching to keep the body out of the way, wearing protective clothing, or turning off equipm...
1112. ...Today they are available commercially. With the increasing growth of distributed energy resources on the power grid, more observability and control systems will be needed to accurately monitor power **flow**. Historically, power has been delivered in a uni-directional fashion through passive components to customers, but now that customers can generate their own power with technologies such as solar PV, t...
1113. ...ependent System Operator (ISO). These ISO's will monitor phasor data from individual PMU's or from as many as 150 PMU's — this monitoring provides an accurate means of establishing controls for power **flow** from multiple energy generation sources (nuclear, coal, wind, etc.). The technology has the potential to change the economics of power delivery by allowing increased power flow over existing lines. S...
1114. ...ing controls for power flow from multiple energy generation sources (nuclear, coal, wind, etc.). The technology has the potential to change the economics of power delivery by allowing increased power **flow** over existing lines. Synchrophasor data could be used to allow power flow up to a line's dynamic limit instead of to its worst-case limit. Synchrophasor technology will usher in a new process for est...
1115. ...ar, coal, wind, etc.). The technology has the potential to change the economics of power delivery by allowing increased power flow over existing lines. Synchrophasor data could be used to allow power **flow** up to a line's dynamic limit instead of to its worst-case limit. Synchrophasor technology will usher in a new process for establishing centralized and selective controls for the flow of electrical en...
1116. ...d to allow power flow up to a line's dynamic limit instead of to its worst-case limit. Synchrophasor technology will usher in a new process for establishing centralized and selective controls for the **flow** of electrical energy over the grid. These controls will affect both large scale (multiple-states) and individual transmission line sections at intersecting substations. Transmission line congestion (...
1117. ...ires (NW) and nanohelices (NH) are synthesized via vapor transport method, with metal nanoparticle catalysts. GeTe was evaporated and carried by Ar gas at optimum temperature, pressure, time, and gas **flow** rate to the downstream collecting/grow site (SiO surface coated with colloidal gold nanoparticles). High temperature over 500 °C produces thicker nanowires and crystalline chunks. Au is essential to...
1118. ...d candidate for RF switching. RF requires a thin layer of GeTe film to be deposited on the surface of the substrate. Seed layer structure, precursor composition, deposition temperature, pressure, gas **flow** rates, precursor bubbling temperatures and the substrates all play a role in the film properties. Uniqueness theorem for Poisson's equation The uniqueness theorem for Poisson's equation states that,...
1119. ...was first proposed by Terry P. Orlando et al. at MIT in 1999 and fabricated shortly thereafter. During fabrication, the Josephson junction parameters are engineered so that a persistent current will **flow** continuously when an external magnetic flux is applied. Only an integer number of flux quanta are allowed to penetrate the superconducting ring, resulting in clockwise or counter-clockwise mesoscopic...
1120. ...lux qubit the situation is reversed and the coupling energy dominates. Typically for a flux qubit the coupling energy is 10-100 times greater than the charging energy which allows the Cooper pairs to **flow** continuously around the loop, rather than tunnel discretely across the junctions like a charge qubit. In order for a superconducting circuit to function as a qubit, there needs to be a non-linear ele...
1121. ...ian, essential for the controlled NOT gate implementation. The direct coupling might be further enhanced by kinetic inductance, if the qubit loops are made to share an edge, so that the currents will **flow** through the same superconducting line. Inserting a Josephson junction on that joint line will add a Josephson inductance term, and increase the coupling even more. To implement a switchable coupling...
1122. ...l capacitor has infinite DC resistance). A crude idea of the capacitance can be derived with an analog multimeter in a high resistance range by observing the needle when first connected; current will **flow** to charge the capacitor and the needle will "kick" from infinite indicated resistance to a relatively low value, and then drift up to infinity. The amplitude of the kick is an indication of capacitan...
1123. ...is concerned with the forces generated by the heart and the resulting motion of blood through the cardiovascular system. These forces demonstrate themselves to the clinician as paired values of blood **flow** and blood pressure measured simultaneously at the output node of the left heart. "Hemodynamics is a fluidic counterpart to the Ohm's law in electronics: pressure is equivalent to voltage, flow to cur...
1124. ...blood flow and blood pressure measured simultaneously at the output node of the left heart. "Hemodynamics is a fluidic counterpart to the Ohm's law in electronics: pressure is equivalent to voltage, **flow** to current, vascular resistance to electrical resistance and myocardial work to power." The relationship between the instantaneous values of aortic blood pressure and blood flow through the aortic va...
1125. ...quivalent to voltage, flow to current, vascular resistance to electrical resistance and myocardial work to power." The relationship between the instantaneous values of aortic blood pressure and blood **flow** through the aortic valve over one heartbeat interval and their mean values are depicted in Fig.1. Their instantaneous values may be used in research; in clinical practice, their mean values, MAP and...
1126. ...at interval and their mean values are depicted in Fig.1. Their instantaneous values may be used in research; in clinical practice, their mean values, MAP and SV, are adequate. Systemic (global) blood **flow** parameters are (a) the blood flow per heartbeat, the Stroke Volume, SV [ml/beat], and (b) the blood flow per minute, the Cardiac Output, CO [l/min]. There is clear relationship between these blood fl...
1127. ...are depicted in Fig.1. Their instantaneous values may be used in research; in clinical practice, their mean values, MAP and SV, are adequate. Systemic (global) blood flow parameters are (a) the blood **flow** per heartbeat, the Stroke Volume, SV [ml/beat], and (b) the blood flow per minute, the Cardiac Output, CO [l/min]. There is clear relationship between these blood flow parameters: where HR is the Hea...
1128. ...ch; in clinical practice, their mean values, MAP and SV, are adequate. Systemic (global) blood flow parameters are (a) the blood flow per heartbeat, the Stroke Volume, SV [ml/beat], and (b) the blood **flow** per minute, the Cardiac Output, CO [l/min]. There is clear relationship between these blood flow parameters: where HR is the Heart Rate frequency (beats per minute, bpm). Since the normal value of CO...
1129. ...ow parameters are (a) the blood flow per heartbeat, the Stroke Volume, SV [ml/beat], and (b) the blood flow per minute, the Cardiac Output, CO [l/min]. There is clear relationship between these blood **flow** parameters: where HR is the Heart Rate frequency (beats per minute, bpm). Since the normal value of CO is proportional to body mass it has to perfuse, one "normal" value of SV and CO for all adults c...
1130. ...s the Heart Rate frequency (beats per minute, bpm). Since the normal value of CO is proportional to body mass it has to perfuse, one "normal" value of SV and CO for all adults cannot exist. All blood **flow** parameters have to be indexed. The accepted convention is to index them by the Body Surface Area, BSA [m], by DuBois & DuBois Formula, a function of height and weight: The resulting indexed parameter...
1131. ...DuBois & DuBois Formula, a function of height and weight: The resulting indexed parameters are Stroke Index, SI (ml/beat/m) defined as and Cardiac Index, CI (l/min/m), defined as  These indexed blood **flow** parameters exhibit typical ranges: For the Stroke Index: 35 < SI < 65 ml/beat/m; for the Cardiac Index: 2.8 < CI < 4.2 l/min/m. Eq.1 for indexed parameters then changes to The primary function of the...
1132. ...m is to provide adequate perfusion to all organs and to maintain a dynamic equilibrium between oxygen demand and oxygen delivery. In a healthy person, the cardiovascular system always increases blood **flow** in response to increased oxygen demand. In a hemodynamically compromised person, when the system is unable to satisfy increased oxygen demand, the blood flow to organs lower on the oxygen delivery pr...
1133. ...diovascular system always increases blood flow in response to increased oxygen demand. In a hemodynamically compromised person, when the system is unable to satisfy increased oxygen demand, the blood **flow** to organs lower on the oxygen delivery priority list is reduced and these organs may, eventually, fail. Digestive disorders, male impotence, tiredness, sleepwalking, environmental temperature intoler...
1134. ...ery priority list is reduced and these organs may, eventually, fail. Digestive disorders, male impotence, tiredness, sleepwalking, environmental temperature intolerance, are classic examples of a low-**flow**-state, resulting in reduced blood flow. SI variability and MAP variability are accomplished through activity of hemodynamic modulators. The conventional cardiovascular physiology terms for the hemody...
1135. ...organs may, eventually, fail. Digestive disorders, male impotence, tiredness, sleepwalking, environmental temperature intolerance, are classic examples of a low-flow-state, resulting in reduced blood **flow**. SI variability and MAP variability are accomplished through activity of hemodynamic modulators. The conventional cardiovascular physiology terms for the hemodynamic modulators are preload, contracti...
1136. ...and untrained physicians alike are unable to estimate cardiac output through physical assessment alone. Clinical measurement of cardiac output has been available since the 1970s. However, this blood **flow** measurement is highly invasive, utilizing a flow-directed, thermodilution catheter (also known as the Swan-Ganz catheter), which represents significant risks to the patient. In addition, this techniq...
1137. ...imate cardiac output through physical assessment alone. Clinical measurement of cardiac output has been available since the 1970s. However, this blood flow measurement is highly invasive, utilizing a **flow**-directed, thermodilution catheter (also known as the Swan-Ganz catheter), which represents significant risks to the patient. In addition, this technique is costly (several hundred dollars per procedu...
1138. ...ician and a sterile environment for catheter insertion. As a result, it has been used only in very narrow strata (less than 2%) of critically ill and high-risk patients in whom the knowledge of blood **flow** and oxygen transport outweighed the risks of the method. In the United States, it is estimated that at least two million pulmonary artery catheter monitoring procedures are performed annually, most o...
1139. ...stigated a compressed and distorted length of copper tube from a lightning rod after it had been struck by lightning. Their analysis showed that the forces due to the interaction of the large current **flow** with its own magnetic field could have caused the compression and distortion. A similar, and apparently independent, theoretical analysis of the pinch effect in liquid metals was published by Northru...
1140. ...n as the thermal noise. This is due to the random movement of ions in the medium and electrons in the electrode. However, when placed in neural tissue the opening of an ion channel results in the net **flow** of ions into the cell from the extracellular medium, or out of the cell into the extracellular medium. These local currents result in larger changes in the electrical potential between the local extr...
1141. ...iction. Two possible mechanisms give origin to the spin Hall effect, in which an electric current (composed of moving charges) transforms into a spin current (a current of moving spins without charge **flow**). The original (extrinsic) mechanism devised by Dyakonov and Perel consisted of spin-dependent Mott scattering, where carriers with opposite spin diffuse in opposite directions when colliding with im...
1142. ...echanisms lead to an accumulation of spins of opposite signs on opposing lateral boundaries. The spin current is described by a second-rank "tensor" , where the first index refers to the direction of **flow**, and the second one to the spin component that is flowing. Thus denotes the flow density of the "y"-component of spin in the "x"-direction. Introduce also the "vector" "q" of charge flow density (whi...
1143. ...boundaries. The spin current is described by a second-rank "tensor" , where the first index refers to the direction of flow, and the second one to the spin component that is flowing. Thus denotes the **flow** density of the "y"-component of spin in the "x"-direction. Introduce also the "vector" "q" of charge flow density (which is related to the normal current density j="e"q), where "e" is the elementary...
1144. ...direction of flow, and the second one to the spin component that is flowing. Thus denotes the flow density of the "y"-component of spin in the "x"-direction. Introduce also the "vector" "q" of charge **flow** density (which is related to the normal current density j="e"q), where "e" is the elementary charge. The coupling between spin and charge currents is due to spin-orbit interaction. It may be describe...
1145. ...c and non-magnetic materials (heavy metals, such as Pt, Ta, Pd, where the spin-orbit interaction is strong). A transformation of spin currents consisting in interchanging ("swapping") of the spin and **flow** directions ("q" → "q") was predicted by Lifshits and Dyakonov. Thus a flow in the "x"-direction of spins polarized along "y" is transformed to a flow in the "y"-direction of spins polarized along "x"...
1146. ...pin-orbit interaction is strong). A transformation of spin currents consisting in interchanging ("swapping") of the spin and flow directions ("q" → "q") was predicted by Lifshits and Dyakonov. Thus a **flow** in the "x"-direction of spins polarized along "y" is transformed to a flow in the "y"-direction of spins polarized along "x". This prediction has yet not been confirmed experimentally. The direct and...
1147. ...ing in interchanging ("swapping") of the spin and flow directions ("q" → "q") was predicted by Lifshits and Dyakonov. Thus a flow in the "x"-direction of spins polarized along "y" is transformed to a **flow** in the "y"-direction of spins polarized along "x". This prediction has yet not been confirmed experimentally. The direct and inverse spin Hall effect can be monitored by optical means. The spin accum...
1148. ...is the velocity of the charges at , and is an infinitesimal surface centred at and orthogonal to , then during an amount of time , only the charge contained in the volume formed by and formula_2 will **flow** through . This charge is equal to formula_3 where is the charge density at . The electric current is formula_4, it follows that the current density vector is the vector normal formula_5 (i.e. paralle...
1149. ...s to propagate, or the time evolution of electric fields in general. Since charge is conserved, current density must satisfy a continuity equation. Here is a derivation from first principles. The net **flow** out of some volume (which can have an arbitrary shape but fixed for the calculation) must equal the net change in charge held inside the volume: formula_24 where is the charge density, and is a surfa...
1150. ...ty electronics. One can also notice the importance of keeping electronic devices cool to avoid exposing them to electromigration and slow diffusion. In biological organisms, ion channels regulate the **flow** of ions (for example, sodium, calcium, potassium) across the membrane in all cells. The membrane of a cell is assumed to act like a capacitor. Current densities are usually expressed in pA⋅pF (picoam...
1151. ...al collision frequency. Kristian Birkeland was the first to suggest that polar electric currents (or auroral electrojets) are connected to a system of filaments (now called "Birkeland currents") that **flow** along geomagnetic field lines into and away from the polar region. The worldwide solar-driven wind results in the so-called Sq (solar quiet) current system in the E region of the Earth's ionosphere (...
1152. ...s in an enhanced eastward current within ± 3 degrees of the magnetic equator, known as the equatorial electrojet. The term 'auroral electrojet' is the name given to the large horizontal currents that **flow** in the D and E regions of the auroral ionosphere. Although horizontal ionospheric currents can be expected to flow at any latitude where horizontal ionospheric electric fields are present, the aurora...
1153. ...he term 'auroral electrojet' is the name given to the large horizontal currents that flow in the D and E regions of the auroral ionosphere. Although horizontal ionospheric currents can be expected to **flow** at any latitude where horizontal ionospheric electric fields are present, the auroral electrojet currents are remarkable for their strength and persistence. There are two main factors in the producti...
1154. ...n occurs at mid-length. For a given gas throughput formula_13 [Pa·m/s], the maximum gas pressure at the centre of the cell depends on the gas conductance formula_14 [m/s]: and formula_14 in molecular-**flow** regime can be calculated as  with the geometric parameters formula_18, formula_19, formula_20 indicated in figure, formula_21 gas molecule mass, and formula_22 gas temperature. Very high gas throughp...
1155. ...his means that the technique is limited to producing very low resolution images of approximate slices. However, ECT is fast, and relatively inexpensive. Applications of ECT include the measurement of **flow** of fluids in pipes and measurement of the concentration of one fluid in another, or the distribution of a solid in a fluid. ECT enables the visualization of multiphase flow, which play an important r...
1156. ...include the measurement of flow of fluids in pipes and measurement of the concentration of one fluid in another, or the distribution of a solid in a fluid. ECT enables the visualization of multiphase **flow**, which play an important role in the technological processes of the chemical, petrochemical and food industries. Due to its very low spatial resolution, ECT has not yet been used in medical diagnosti...
1157. ...n of such GUIs. Industry standards such as GPIB, RS-232, USB and Ethernet are available from a variety of manufacturers. Experimental fluid dynamics uses digital delay generators to investigate fluid **flow**. The field of PIV, particle image velocimetry, encompasses several subsets which would use digital delay generators as the main component of its timing where multiple lasers may be triggered. Multipl...
1158. ...field. Thus, as the magnetic field increases, the spin-split Landau levels move to higher energy. As each energy level passes through the Fermi energy, it depopulates as the electrons become free to **flow** as current. This causes the material's transport and thermodynamic properties to oscillate periodically, producing a measurable oscillation in the material's conductivity. Since the transition across...
1159. ...h the four contacts, and with their chemical potentials "μ" ... "μ", equation () can be re-written A voltage is measured between contacts 2 and 3. The voltage measurement should ideally not involve a **flow** of current through the meter, so "I" = "I" = 0. It follows that In other words, the chemical potentials "μ" and "μ" and their respective voltages and are the same. As a consequence of no drop of volt...
1160. ...e. Common membrane materials include sintered glass, porous porcelain, polytetrafluoroethene or polypropylene. The purpose of the divided cell is to permit the diffusion of ions while restricting the **flow** of the products and reactants. This separation simplifies workup. An example of a reaction requiring a divided cell is the reduction of nitrobenzene to phenylhydroxylamine, where the latter chemical...
1161. ...,000 kelvins. A particular and unusual case of "inverse" nonthermal plasma is the very high temperature plasma produced by the Z machine, where ions are much hotter than electrons. Aerodynamic active **flow** control solutions involving technological nonthermal weakly ionized plasmas for subsonic, supersonic and hypersonic flight are being studied, as plasma actuators in the field of electrohydrodynamics,...
1162. ...ing of the reactor walls Packed bed plasma-catalytic reactor are commonly used for fundamental studies and a scale-up to industrial applications is difficult since the pressure drop increase with the **flow** rate. In a PEC system, the way the catalyst is positioned in relation to the plasma can affect the process in different ways. The catalyst can positively influence the plasma and vice versa resulting...
1163. ...ockets (usually fully reusable launch systems) to LEO, after which either chemical or electrical propulsion is used to carry them to GEO. The desired characteristics for this system is very high mass-**flow** at low total cost. Alternate concepts include: The National Space Society maintains an extensive space solar power library of all major historical documents and studies associated with space solar po...
1164. ...uch as water tanks, rooms and forced air systems to germicidal UV. Exposure comes from germicidal lamps that emit germicidal UV at the correct wavelength, thus irradiating the environment. The forced **flow** of air or water through this environment ensures exposure of that air or water. The effectiveness of germicidal UV depends on the UV dose, i.e. how much UV light reaches the microbe (measured as radi...
1165. ...most effective disinfection performance. Disinfection is a function of UV intensity and time. For this reason, it is in theory not as effective on moving air, or when the lamp is perpendicular to the **flow**, as exposure times are dramatically reduced. However, numerous professional and scientific publications have indicated that the overall effectiveness of UVGI actually increases when used in conjuncti...
1166. ...UV system unaffected. The pre-filter also clarifies the water to improve light transmittance and therefore UV dose throughout the entire water column. Another key factor of UV water treatment is the **flow** rate—if the flow is too high, water will pass through without sufficient UV exposure. If the flow is too low, heat may build up and damage the UV lamp. A disadvantage of UVGI is that while water trea...
1167. ...cted. The pre-filter also clarifies the water to improve light transmittance and therefore UV dose throughout the entire water column. Another key factor of UV water treatment is the flow rate—if the **flow** is too high, water will pass through without sufficient UV exposure. If the flow is too low, heat may build up and damage the UV lamp. A disadvantage of UVGI is that while water treated by chlorinati...
1168. ...therefore UV dose throughout the entire water column. Another key factor of UV water treatment is the flow rate—if the flow is too high, water will pass through without sufficient UV exposure. If the **flow** is too low, heat may build up and damage the UV lamp. A disadvantage of UVGI is that while water treated by chlorination is resistant to reinfection (until the chlorine off-gasses), UVGI water is not...
1169. ...ents designed a system using potato chip (crisp) packet foil to reflect solar UV radiation into a glass tube that disinfects water without power. Sizing of a UV system is affected by three variables: **flow** rate, lamp power, and UV transmittance in the water. Manufacturers typically developed sophisticated computational fluid dynamics (CFD) models validated with bioassay testing. This involves testing t...
1170. ...ophisticated computational fluid dynamics (CFD) models validated with bioassay testing. This involves testing the UV reactor's disinfection performance with either MS2 or T1 bacteriophages at various **flow** rates, UV transmittance, and power levels in order to develop a regression model for system sizing. For example, this is a requirement for all public water systems in the United States per the EPA UV...
1171. ...ansmittance, and power levels in order to develop a regression model for system sizing. For example, this is a requirement for all public water systems in the United States per the EPA UV manual. The **flow** profile is produced from the chamber geometry, flow rate, and particular turbulence model selected. The radiation profile is developed from inputs such as water quality, lamp type (power, germicidal...
1172. ...regression model for system sizing. For example, this is a requirement for all public water systems in the United States per the EPA UV manual. The flow profile is produced from the chamber geometry, **flow** rate, and particular turbulence model selected. The radiation profile is developed from inputs such as water quality, lamp type (power, germicidal efficiency, spectral output, arc length), and the tr...
1173. ...uts such as water quality, lamp type (power, germicidal efficiency, spectral output, arc length), and the transmittance and dimension of the quartz sleeve. Proprietary CFD software simulates both the **flow** and radiation profiles. Once the 3D model of the chamber is built, it is populated with a grid or mesh that comprises thousands of small cubes. Points of interest—such as at a bend, on the quartz sle...
1174. ...nic surrogates such as MS 2 phage or "Bacillus subtilis" to determine the Reduction Equivalent Dose (RED) ability of the reactors. Most systems are validated to deliver 40 mJ/cm within an envelope of **flow** and transmittance. To validate effectiveness in drinking water systems, the method described in the EPA UV guidance manual is typically used by US water utilities, whilst Europe has adopted Germany's...
1175. ...t pathogens cannot reproduce, thus decreasing the likelihood of a disease outbreak in an aquarium. Aquarium and pond sterilizers are typically small, with fittings for tubing that allows the water to **flow** through the sterilizer on its way from a separate external filter or water pump. Within the sterilizer, water flows as close as possible to the ultraviolet light source. Water pre-filtration is criti...
1176. ...er contacts the water; it is either housed in a quartz glass sleeve inside the water chamber or mounted externally to the water, which flows through the transparent UV tube. Water passing through the **flow** chamber is exposed to UV rays, which are absorbed by suspended solids, such as microorganisms and dirt, in the stream. Recent developments in LED technology have led to commercially available UV-C LE...
1177. ...and 120vac excitation was applied to the winding around the iron core. As the current in the dc bus increased, the iron saturated more and more, which in turn allowed a higher level of ac current to **flow**. This ac current was then rectified as an output signal proportional to the bus current. In this manner, dc currents of 30,000 amps or more could be accurately measured without electrically bonding t...
1178. ...induced convection for systems with small dimensions. The ferrofluid magnetization depends on the local value of the applied magnetic field H and on the fluid magnetic susceptibility. In a ferrofluid **flow** encompassing varying temperatures, the susceptibility is a function of the temperature. This produces a force that can be expressed in the Navier–Stokes or momentum equation governing fluid flow as t...
1179. ...luid flow encompassing varying temperatures, the susceptibility is a function of the temperature. This produces a force that can be expressed in the Navier–Stokes or momentum equation governing fluid **flow** as the "Kelvin body force (KBF)". Recently, Kumar et.al shed new light on the 20-plus year-old question of the appropriate tensor form of the Kelvin body force in Ferrofluids.  The KBF creates a stat...
1180. ...force in Ferrofluids.  The KBF creates a static pressure field that is symmetric about a magnet, e.g., a line dipole, that produces a curl-free force field, i.e., curl(ℑ) = 0 for constant temperature **flow**. Such a symmetric field does not alter the velocity. However, if the temperature distribution about the imposed magnetic field is asymmetric, so is the KBF in which case curl(ℑ) ≠ 0. Such an asymmetr...
1181. ...the thin gate oxide to show up as gate current, or as substrate leakage current. In a MOSFET, when a gate is positive, and the switch is on, the device is designed with the intent that electrons will **flow** laterally through the conductive channel, from the source to the drain. Hot electrons may jump from the channel region or from the drain, for instance, and enter the gate or the substrate. These hot...
1182. ...tary magnetic field (IMF), also commonly referred to as the heliospheric magnetic field (HMF), is the component of the solar magnetic field that is dragged out from the solar corona by the solar wind **flow** to fill the Solar System. The coronal and solar wind plasmas are highly electrically conductive, meaning the magnetic field lines and the plasma flows are effectively "frozen" together and the magnet...
1183. ...magnetic field. However, with increasing altitude through the corona, the solar wind accelerates as it extracts energy from the magnetic field through the Lorentz force interaction, resulting in the **flow** momentum exceeding the restraining magnetic tension force and the coronal magnetic field is dragged out by the solar wind to form the IMF. This acceleration often leads the IMF to be locally superson...
1184. ...d (with formula_11): where "n", "m", and "e" are, respectively, number density, mass, and charge of the Cooper pairs. If the region, "S", is large enough so that formula_13 along formula_14, then The **flow** of current can cause vortices in a superconductor to move, causing the electric field due to the phenomenon of electromagnetic induction. This leads to energy dissipation and causes the material to d...
1185. ...ab members to explore flows that would otherwise be too computationally expensive with a particle method. Work is currently being done to combine the two codes into a hybrid that uses MONACO when the **flow** is in the collisional nonequilibrium regime and LeMANS when the flow can be considered continuous. Current and past plasma and nonequilibrium flow projects include simulation of ion thrusters, Hall e...
1186. ...ly expensive with a particle method. Work is currently being done to combine the two codes into a hybrid that uses MONACO when the flow is in the collisional nonequilibrium regime and LeMANS when the **flow** can be considered continuous. Current and past plasma and nonequilibrium flow projects include simulation of ion thrusters, Hall effect thrusters, and pulsed plasma thrusters) as well as numerous NAS...
1187. ...he two codes into a hybrid that uses MONACO when the flow is in the collisional nonequilibrium regime and LeMANS when the flow can be considered continuous. Current and past plasma and nonequilibrium **flow** projects include simulation of ion thrusters, Hall effect thrusters, and pulsed plasma thrusters) as well as numerous NASA contracts to study reentry aerothermodynamics for space vehicles, including...
1188. ...'s law, which states that current is proportional to electric field. However, such a linear relationship is impossible in a superconductor for, almost by definition, the electrons in a superconductor **flow** with no resistance whatsoever. To this end, the London brothers imagined electrons as if they were free electrons under the influence of a uniform external electric field. According to the Lorentz fo...
1189. ...t (DUT). The function is to apply a swept (automatically continuously varying with time) voltage to two terminals of the device under test and measure the amount of current that the device permits to **flow** at each voltage. This so-called I–V (current versus voltage) data is either directly displayed on an oscilloscope screen, or recorded to a data file for later processing and graphing with a computer....
1190. ...bitively expensive, a good compromise is to connect the low frequency, high current equipment to the grid at or near the ground rods and entrance transformers, in such a way that their load  will not **flow** across the segment of the grid connected to the low current equipment. Thus the system is still an electrically continuous unit, but motor noise does not impinge directly into signal paths. The cross...
1191. ...f higher frequencies are present, they need to be closer. In general, the spacing between nodes should be less than 1/8 of the shortest wavelength present. This will guarantee that current can always **flow** no matter which path it tries to take. If less than 1/8 wavelength node spacing cannot be achieved, then at least include as many cross connects as possible, as closely spaced as possible. Magnetic-t...
1192. ...placed round a volume and if a particular formula is used to calculate the signals to be fed to the sources, perfect cloaking is possible. Such perfect cloaking does require that the information can **flow** through the volume fast enough and the calculations can be performed fast enough so that the necessary information can get to the sources on the far side of the volume fast enough. As a result, perfe...
1193. ...ential bottlenecks in the future). Network Tomography may improve the control of a smart grid Contact resistance Electrical contact resistance (ECR, or simply contact resistance) is resistance to the **flow** of electric current caused by incomplete contact of the surfaces through which the current is flowing, and by films or oxide layers on the contacting surfaces. It occurs at electrical connections suc...
1194. ...lso subject to contact resistance, with particular significance in heat transport through granular media. Similarly, a drop in hydrostatic pressure (analogous to electrical voltage) occurs when fluid **flow** transitions from one channel to another. Bad contacts are the cause of failure or poor performance in a wide variety of electrical devices. For example, corroded jumper cable clamps can frustrate att...
1195. ...rating equipment is accelerated smoothly. This lengthens service life, improves operating behavior, and smooths work flows. Electrical soft starters can use solid state devices to control the current **flow** and therefore the voltage applied to the motor. They can be connected in series with the line voltage applied to the motor, or can be connected inside the delta (Δ) loop of a delta-connected motor, c...
1196. ...itatory and inhibitory potentials. As an action potential travels through the presynaptic neuron, the membrane depolarization causes voltage-gated calcium channels to open. Consequently, calcium ions **flow** into the cell, promoting neurotransmitter-filled vesicles to travel down to the terminal button. These vesicles fuse with the membrane, releasing the neurotransmitter into the synaptic cleft. The rel...
1197. ...alter the performance of the dielectric barrier discharge (DBD) plasma actuator. Actuators with a shallow initial electrode are able to more efficiently impart momentum and mechanical power into the **flow**.  A multitude of random arcs form in operation gap exceeding 1.5 mm between the two electrodes during discharges in gases at the atmospheric pressure . As the charges collect on the surface of the di...
1198. ...iconductor manufacturing, germicidal processes, polymer surface treatment, high-power CO lasers typically used for welding and metal cutting, pollution control and plasma displays panels, aerodynamic **flow** control... The relatively lower temperature of DBDs makes it an attractive method of generating plasma at atmospheric pressure. The plasma itself is used to modify or clean (plasma cleaning) surfaces...
1199. ...lasma polymers can control and steer biological–biomaterial interactions (i.e. adhesion, proliferation, and differentiation) or inhibition of bacteria adhesion. Interest in plasma actuators as active **flow** control devices is growing rapidly due to their lack of mechanical parts, light weight and high response frequency.  Due to their nature, these devices have the following properties: Operation with c...
1200. ...y The word "electricity" refers generally to the movement of electrons, or other charge carriers, through a conductor in the presence of a potential difference or an electric field. The speed of this **flow** has multiple meanings. In everyday electrical and electronic devices, the signals travel as electromagnetic waves typically at 50%–99% of the speed of light in vacuum. The electrons themselves move m...
1201. ...ng through. The electromagnetic fields do not move through space. It is the electromagnetic energy that moves. The corresponding fields simply grow and decline in a region of space in response to the **flow** of energy. At any point in space, the electric field corresponds not to the condition of the electric energy flow at that moment, but to that of the flow at a moment earlier. The latency is determine...
1202. ...corresponding fields simply grow and decline in a region of space in response to the flow of energy. At any point in space, the electric field corresponds not to the condition of the electric energy **flow** at that moment, but to that of the flow at a moment earlier. The latency is determined by the time required for the field to propagate from the conductor to the point under consideration. In other wo...
1203. ...cline in a region of space in response to the flow of energy. At any point in space, the electric field corresponds not to the condition of the electric energy flow at that moment, but to that of the **flow** at a moment earlier. The latency is determined by the time required for the field to propagate from the conductor to the point under consideration. In other words, the greater the distance from the c...
1204. ...ectric field is usually inappreciable at a distance which is still small compared to the wavelength. Within the range in which an appreciable field exists, this field is practically in phase with the **flow** of energy in the conductor. That is, the velocity of propagation has no appreciable effect unless the return conductor is very distant, or entirely absent, or the frequency is so high that the distan...
1205. ...t a thermal gradient formed between two different conductors can produce electricity. At the heart of the thermoelectric effect is that a temperature gradient in a conducting material results in heat **flow**; this results in the diffusion of charge carriers. The flow of charge carriers between the hot and cold regions in turn creates a voltage difference. In 1834, Jean Charles Athanase Peltier discovered...
1206. ...can produce electricity. At the heart of the thermoelectric effect is that a temperature gradient in a conducting material results in heat flow; this results in the diffusion of charge carriers. The **flow** of charge carriers between the hot and cold regions in turn creates a voltage difference. In 1834, Jean Charles Athanase Peltier discovered the reverse effect, that running an electric current throug...
1207. ...rmal conductivity ensures that when one side is made hot, the other side stays cold, which helps to generate a large voltage while in a temperature gradient. The measure of the magnitude of electrons **flow** in response to a temperature difference across that material is given by the Seebeck coefficient (S). The efficiency of a given material to produce a thermoelectric power is simply estimated by its “...
1208. ...ts of two dissimilar thermoelectric materials joined at their ends: an n-type (with negative charge carriers), and a p-type (with positive charge carriers) semiconductor. Direct electric current will **flow** in the circuit when there is a temperature difference between the ends of the materials. Generally, the current magnitude is directly proportional to the temperature difference: formula_1 where formu...
1209. ...thermocouples as well as a high output voltage, making this design the most widely-used design commercially. The mixed design has the thermocouples arranged laterally on the substrate while the heat **flow** is vertical between plates. Microcavities under the hot contacts of the device allow for a temperature gradient, which allows for the substrate’s thermal conductivity to affect the gradient and effic...
1210. ...re are many challenges in designing a reliable TEG system that operates at high temperatures. Achieving high efficiency in the system requires extensive engineering design to balance between the heat **flow** through the modules and maximizing the temperature gradient across them. To do this, designing heat exchanger technologies in the system is one of the most important aspects of TEG engineering. In ad...
1211. ...herent grain boundaries, which do not have a significant scattering effect on electrons. The breakthrough is then applying a pressure to the liquid in the sintering process, which creates a transient **flow** of the Te rich liquid and facilitates the formation of dislocations that greatly reduce the lattice conductivity. The ability to selectively decrease the lattice conductivity results in reported zT v...
1212. ...e the ESL of an MLCC chip can be reduced. Therefore, the stacked electrodes are connected on the longitudinal side with the connecting terminations. This reduces the distance that the charge carriers **flow** over the electrodes, which reduces inductance of the component. For example, an 0.1 μF X7R MLCC in a 0805 package resonates at 16 MHz. The same capacitor with leads on its long sides (i.e. an "0508")...
1213. ...t the surface of the Earth is induced associated with time variations of the magnetic field. The surface electric field causes electrical currents, known as geomagnetically induced currents (GIC), to **flow** in any conducting structure, for example, a power or pipeline grid grounded in the Earth. This electric field, measured in V/km, acts as a voltage source across networks. Examples of conducting netwo...
1214. ...There is a trend towards using higher voltages and lower line resistances to reduce transmission losses over longer and longer path lengths. Low line resistances produce a situation favourable to the **flow** of GIC. Power transformers have a magnetic circuit that is disrupted by the quasi-DC GIC: the field produced by the GIC offsets the operating point of the magnetic circuit and the transformer may go...
1215. ...rease in the interconnectedness at higher voltages, connections in terms of power transmission to grids in the auroral zone, and grids operating closer to capacity than in the past. To understand the **flow** of GIC in power grids and to advise on GIC risk, analysis of the quasi-DC properties of the grid is necessary. This must be coupled with a geophysical model of the Earth that provides the driving sur...
1216. ...r is called the "basin" of the attractor. States which occur only at the beginning of trajectories (no trajectories lead "to" them), are called "garden-of-Eden" states and the dynamics of the network **flow** from these states towards attractors. The time it takes to reach an attractor is called "transient time". With growing computer power and increasing understanding of the seemingly simple model, diffe...
1217. ...ound or layered crystal. The electrons within a CDW form a standing wave pattern and sometimes collectively carry an electric current. The electrons in such a CDW, like those in a superconductor, can **flow** through a linear chain compound en masse, in a highly correlated fashion. Unlike a superconductor, however, the electric CDW current often flows in a jerky fashion, much like water dripping from a fa...
1218. ...nts. The basis of a STATCOM is a voltage source converter (VSC) connected in series with some type of reactance, either a fixed Inductor or a Power Transformer. This allows a STATCOM to control power **flow** much like a Transmission Line, albeit without any active (real) power flow. Given an inductor connected between two AC voltages, the reactive power flow between the two points is given by: formula_1...
1219. ...n series with some type of reactance, either a fixed Inductor or a Power Transformer. This allows a STATCOM to control power flow much like a Transmission Line, albeit without any active (real) power **flow**. Given an inductor connected between two AC voltages, the reactive power flow between the two points is given by: formula_1 where formula_2: Reactive Power formula_3: Sending-End Voltage formula_4: M...
1220. ...former. This allows a STATCOM to control power flow much like a Transmission Line, albeit without any active (real) power flow. Given an inductor connected between two AC voltages, the reactive power **flow** between the two points is given by: formula_1 where formula_2: Reactive Power formula_3: Sending-End Voltage formula_4: Magnitude difference in formula_3 and receiving end voltage formula_6 formula_7...
1221. ...e difference between formula_3 and formula_6 With formula_8 close to zero (as the STATCOM provides no real power and only consumes a small amount as losses) and formula_7 a fixed size, reactive power **flow** is controlled by the difference in magnitude of the two AC voltages. From the equation, if the STATCOM creates a voltage magnitude greater than the system voltage, it supplies capacitive reactive pow...
1222. ...angement to eliminate zero sequence harmonics, four IGBTs can be used to surround the capacitor to bypass or switch it in at either polarity. As a STATCOM's VSC operation is based on changing current **flow** to affect voltage, its voltage-current (VI) characteristics control how it operates. The VI characteristic can be divided into two distinct parts: a slopped region between its inductive and capacitiv...
1223. ...but can be as high as 3.0 pu. To control the operation of a STATCOM when in voltage control mode, a closed loop, PID regulator is typically used, which allows for feedback on how changing the current **flow** is affecting the system voltage. A simplified PID regulator is shown, however a separate closed loop is sometimes used to determine the reference voltage with respect to the slope and any other modes...
1224. ...however they are better suited for supporting the grid under fault or transient events or contingency events. One popular use is to place a STATCOM along a transmission line, to improve system power **flow**. Under normal operation the STATCOM will do very little, however in the event of a fault of a nearby line, the power that was being served is forced onto other transmission lines. Ordinarily this res...
1225. ...le, however in the event of a fault of a nearby line, the power that was being served is forced onto other transmission lines. Ordinarily this results in voltage drop increases due to increased power **flow**, but with a STATCOM available it can supply reactive power to increase the voltage until either the fault is removed (if temporary) or until a fixed capacitor can be switched in (if the fault is perm...
1226. ...or system level innovation. It can be used in many areas other than clock signal generation. Its impact is significant since clock signal is the most important signal in electronics, establishing the **flow**-of-time inside the electronic world. This profound influence is being seen in this directional change in Moore's Law from space to time. Prior to widespread use of synthesizers, in order to pick up s...
1227. ...t and small hail. They are common in temperate zones during a summer afternoon. Like all thunderstorms, the mean-layered wind field the storms form within determine motion. When the deep-layered wind **flow** is light, outflow boundary progression will determine storm movement. Since thunderstorms can be a hazard to aviation, pilots are advised to fly above any haze layers within regions of better visibil...
1228. ...frequency noise of the power source from coupling in the system. A LISN functions as a low-pass filter, which provides high impedance to the outside RF noise while allowing the low-frequency power to **flow** through to the EUT. Typically, a spectrum analyzer or an EMI receiver is used to take the measurements during an EMC test. The input port of such an equipment is very sensitive and prone to damage if...
1229. ...face" of an insulating material wherein an initial exposure to electrical arcing heat carbonizes the material. The carbonized areas are more conductive than the pristine insulator, increasing current **flow**, resulting in increased heat generation, and eventually the insulation becomes completely conductive. A large voltage difference gradually creates a conductive leakage path across the surface of the...
1230. ...shaped trap divided into two by two moveable weak barriers, with the two separate parts of the ring acting as the drain and the source and the barriers acting as the gate. As the barriers move, atoms **flow** from the source to the drain. It is now possible to coherently guide matterwaves over distances of up to 40 cm in ring-shaped atomtronic matterwave guides. The field of atomtronics is still very nasc...
1231. ...an be arranged to provide current through Rs and Rx at or close to the rated operating currents of the smaller rated resistor. This contributes to smaller errors in measurement. This current does not **flow** through the measuring bridge itself. This bridge can also be used to measure resistors of the more conventional two terminal design. The bridge potential connections are merely connected as close to...
1232. ...osen as the Slack bus and is omitted from the variables of the function . The choice of Slack bus is entirely arbitrary, here bus is chosen. The second constraint involves capacity constraints on the **flow** on network lines. For a system with lines this constraint is modeled as: where is the flow on branch , and is the maximum value that this flow is allowed to take. Note that the net injection at the s...
1233. ...ck bus is entirely arbitrary, here bus is chosen. The second constraint involves capacity constraints on the flow on network lines. For a system with lines this constraint is modeled as: where is the **flow** on branch , and is the maximum value that this flow is allowed to take. Note that the net injection at the slack bus is not included in this equation for the same reasons as above. These equations ca...
1234. ...e second constraint involves capacity constraints on the flow on network lines. For a system with lines this constraint is modeled as: where is the flow on branch , and is the maximum value that this **flow** is allowed to take. Note that the net injection at the slack bus is not included in this equation for the same reasons as above. These equations can now be combined to build the Lagrangian of the opt...
1235. ...t condition is needed to handle the inequality constraint on line capacity. Solving these equations is computationally difficult as they are nonlinear and implicitly involve the solution of the power **flow** equations. The analysis can be simplified using a linearised model called a DC power flow. There is a special case which is found in much of the literature. This is the case in which demand is assume...
1236. ...equations is computationally difficult as they are nonlinear and implicitly involve the solution of the power flow equations. The analysis can be simplified using a linearised model called a DC power **flow**. There is a special case which is found in much of the literature. This is the case in which demand is assumed to be perfectly inelastic (i.e., unresponsive to price). This is equivalent to assuming...
1237. ...large distances, however, the magnetic fields of currents flowing in opposite directions cancel out and only a net dipole field survives, slowly diminishing with distance. Because the major currents **flow** in the direction of conductive mass motion (equatorial currents), the major component of the generated magnetic field is the dipole field of the equatorial current loop, thus producing magnetic poles...
1238. ...t the MRI is likely to occur in a very wide variety of different systems. The MRI was first noticed in a non-astrophysical context by Evgeny Velikhov in 1959 when considering the stability of Couette **flow** of an ideal hydromagnetic fluid. His result was later generalized by Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar in 1960. This mechanism was proposed by D. J. Acheson and Raymond Hide (1973) to perhaps play a role in...
1239. ...l constant, formula_13 is the central mass, and formula_91 is radial location in the disk. Since formula_92 this so-called "Keplerian disk" is unstable to the MRI . Without a weak magnetic field, the **flow** would be stable. For a Keplerian disk, the maximum growth rate is formula_93 which occurs at a wavenumber satisfying formula_94 formula_95 is very rapid, corresponding to an amplification factor of m...
1240. ...MRI into fully developed turbulence may be followed via large scale numerical computation. Interest in the MRI is based on the fact that it appears to give an explanation for the origin of turbulent **flow** in astrophysical accretion disks (Balbus and Hawley, 1991). A promising model for the compact, intense X-ray sources discovered in the 1960s was that of a neutron star or black hole drawing in ("accr...
1241. ...ura and Sunyaev, 1973). There would be significant shear in an accretion disk (gas closer to the centre rotates more rapidly than outer disk regions), and shear layers often break down into turbulent **flow**. The presence of shear-generated turbulence, in turn, produces the powerful torques needed to transport angular momentum from one (inner) fluid element to another (farther out). The breakdown of shea...
1242. ...stabilized oscillations, not exponential growth. These oscillations are present under much more general conditions as well: a recent laboratory experiment (Ji et al., 2006) has shown stability of the **flow** profile expected in accretion disks under conditions in which otherwise troublesome dissipation effects are (by a standard measure known as the Reynolds number) well below one part in a million. All...
1243. ...re when even a very weak magnetic field is present. The MRI produces torques that are not stabilized by Coriolis forces. Large scale numerical simulations of the MRI indicate that the rotational disk **flow** breaks down into turbulence (Hawley et al., 1995), with strongly enhanced angular momentum transport properties. This is just what is required for the accretion disk model to work. The formation of s...
1244. ...lik, 1999) and gamma ray bursts (Wheeler, 2004) are all thought to involve the development of the MRI at some level. Thus far, we have focused rather exclusively on the dynamical breakdown of laminar **flow** into turbulence triggered by a weak magnetic field, but it is also the case that the resulting highly agitated flow can act back on this same magnetic field. Embedded magnetic field lines are stretch...
1245. ...Thus far, we have focused rather exclusively on the dynamical breakdown of laminar flow into turbulence triggered by a weak magnetic field, but it is also the case that the resulting highly agitated **flow** can act back on this same magnetic field. Embedded magnetic field lines are stretched by the turbulent flow, and it is possible that systematic field amplification could result. The process by which...
1246. ...ggered by a weak magnetic field, but it is also the case that the resulting highly agitated flow can act back on this same magnetic field. Embedded magnetic field lines are stretched by the turbulent **flow**, and it is possible that systematic field amplification could result. The process by which fluid motions are converted to magnetic field energy is known as a dynamo (Moffatt, 1978); the two best stud...
1247. ...namically quiescent background state has yet to be achieved in the laboratory, however.  The spring-mass analogue of the standard MRI has been demonstrated in rotating Taylor–Couette / Keplerian-like **flow** (Hung et al. 2019).  Self-focusing Self-focusing is a non-linear optical process induced by the change in refractive index of materials exposed to intense electromagnetic radiation. A medium whose re...
1248. ...n the fields of colloid and interface science. In geology, measurements of related spontaneous potential are used for evaluations of formations. Streaming potential has to be considered in design for **flow** of poorly conductive fluids (e.g., gasoline lines) because of the danger of buildup of high voltages. The streaming current monitor (SCM) is a fundamental tool for monitoring coagulation in wastewate...
1249. ...liquid is violated due to the presence of the electrical double layer: a thin layer of counterions attracted by the charged surface. The transport of counterions along with the pressure-driven fluid **flow** gives rise to a net charge transport: the streaming current. The reverse effect, generating a fluid flow by applying a potential difference, is called electroosmotic flow. A typical setup to measure...
1250. ...cted by the charged surface. The transport of counterions along with the pressure-driven fluid flow gives rise to a net charge transport: the streaming current. The reverse effect, generating a fluid **flow** by applying a potential difference, is called electroosmotic flow. A typical setup to measure streaming currents consists of two reversible electrodes placed on either side of a fluidic geometry acro...
1251. ...th the pressure-driven fluid flow gives rise to a net charge transport: the streaming current. The reverse effect, generating a fluid flow by applying a potential difference, is called electroosmotic **flow**. A typical setup to measure streaming currents consists of two reversible electrodes placed on either side of a fluidic geometry across which a known pressure difference is applied. When both electro...
1252. ...ing, allowing a streaming potential to build up between the two ends of the channel. A streaming potential is defined as positive when the electric potential is higher on the high pressure end of the **flow** system than on the low pressure end. The value of streaming current observed in a capillary is usually related to the zeta potential through the relation: The conduction current, which is equal in ma...
1253. ...the zeta potential through the relation: The conduction current, which is equal in magnitude to the streaming current at steady state, is: At steady state, the streaming potential built up across the **flow** system is given by: Symbols: The equation above is usually referred to as the Helmholtz–Smoluchowski equation. The above equations assume that: Critical Power Coalition The Critical Power Coalition (...
1254. ...er is taken from the mains for amplitude control. So the current consumption from the mains is considerably lower than the current consumption in case of phase-angle operation. The continuous current **flow** causes a mild operation of the used heater elements and consequently significant longer lifetimes are realized. Depending on the ambient conditions the lifetime can be twice as long. Especially the s...
1255. ...of the base region. Analogously, for PNP-transistors, electronic holes are the minority carriers of the base region. The carrier lifetime of these minority carriers plays a crucial role in the charge **flow** of minority carriers in the base region, which is found between the two junctions. Depending on the BJT's mode of operation, recombination is either preferred, or to be avoided in the base region. In...
1256. ..., determining the carrier lifetime is rather more complicated. Namely, one must measure the output conductance and reverse transconductance, both of which are variables that depend on the voltage and **flow** of current through the BJT, and calculate the minority carrier transit time, which is determined by the width of the quasi-neutral base (QNB) of the BJT, and the diffusion coefficient; a constant tha...
1257. ...other medical applications; such electrodes were used in a commercially available sleep-monitoring device made by former company Zeo, Inc. Highly conductive stainless steel fiber is available. Zonal **flow** (plasma) In toroidally confined fusion plasma experiments the term zonal flow means a plasma flow within a magnetic surface primarily in the poloidal direction. This usage is inspired by the analogy...
1258. ...able sleep-monitoring device made by former company Zeo, Inc. Highly conductive stainless steel fiber is available. Zonal flow (plasma) In toroidally confined fusion plasma experiments the term zonal **flow** means a plasma flow within a magnetic surface primarily in the poloidal direction. This usage is inspired by the analogy between the quasi-two-dimensional nature of large-scale atmospheric and oceani...
1259. ...g device made by former company Zeo, Inc. Highly conductive stainless steel fiber is available. Zonal flow (plasma) In toroidally confined fusion plasma experiments the term zonal flow means a plasma **flow** within a magnetic surface primarily in the poloidal direction. This usage is inspired by the analogy between the quasi-two-dimensional nature of large-scale atmospheric and oceanic flows, where zonal...
1260. ...relay monitors voltage and current in the transformer, and opens or closes the contact mechanism through electrical signals. The relay uses a power/time curve so that small, short term reverse power **flow** (such as from elevator hoists) are ignored. Spot units will be 277/480 and the grid units will be 120/208. The network protector does not protect the (secondary) network cable from overload. The netw...
1261. ...e network protector does not protect the (secondary) network cable from overload. The network protector is installed to protect the stability and reliability of the secondary grid by preventing power **flow** away from the customers and into the primary feeders.  If there is a fault on the primary feeder, the substation circuit-breaker is meant to open, disconnecting the primary feeder from one side. The...
1262. ...typically make use of mathematical optimization techniques such linear programming, quadratic programming, and mixed integer programming. Multiple elements of a power system can be modelled. A power-**flow** study calculates the loading on transmission lines and the power necessary to be generated at generating stations, given the required loads to be served. A short circuit study or fault analysis calcu...
1263. ...on lines and the power necessary to be generated at generating stations, given the required loads to be served. A short circuit study or fault analysis calculates the short-circuit current that would **flow** at various points of interest in the system under study, for short-circuits between phases or from energized wires to ground. A coordination study allows selection and setting of protective relays an...
1264. ...or power quality studies show the effect of non-linear loads such as lighting on the waveform of the power system, and allow recommendations to be made to mitigate severe distortion. An optimal power-**flow** study establishes the best combination of generating plant output to meet a given load requirement, so as to minimize production cost while maintaining desired stability and reliability; such models...
1265. ...lowest-cost way to achieve economic dispatch. There are many power simulation software packages in commercial and non-commercial forms that range from utility-scale software to study tools. The load-**flow** calculation is the most common network analysis tool for examining the undisturbed and disturbed network within the scope of operational and strategic planning. Using network topology, transmission l...
1266. ...scope of operational and strategic planning. Using network topology, transmission line parameters, transformer parameters, generator location and limits, and load location and compensation, the load-**flow** calculation can provide voltage magnitudes and angles for all nodes and loading of network components, such as cables and transformers. With this information, compliance to operating limitations such...
1267. ...ground cables, where the influence of cable bundling on the load capability of each cable has to be taken also into account. Due to the ability to determine losses and reactive-power allocation, load-**flow** calculation also supports the planning engineer in the investigation of the most economical operation mode of the network. When changing over from single and/or multi-phase infeed low-voltage meshed...
1268. ...ing engineer in the investigation of the most economical operation mode of the network. When changing over from single and/or multi-phase infeed low-voltage meshed networks to isolated networks, load-**flow** calculation is essential for operational and economical reasons. Load-flow calculation is also the basis of all further network studies, such as motor start-up or investigation of scheduled or unsche...
1269. ...the network. When changing over from single and/or multi-phase infeed low-voltage meshed networks to isolated networks, load-flow calculation is essential for operational and economical reasons. Load-**flow** calculation is also the basis of all further network studies, such as motor start-up or investigation of scheduled or unscheduled outages of equipment within the outage simulation. Especially when in...
1270. ...further network studies, such as motor start-up or investigation of scheduled or unscheduled outages of equipment within the outage simulation. Especially when investigating motor start-up, the load-**flow** calculation results give helpful hints, for example, of whether the motor can be started in spite of the voltage drop caused by the start-up current. Short circuit analysis analyzes the power flow af...
1271. ...ad-flow calculation results give helpful hints, for example, of whether the motor can be started in spite of the voltage drop caused by the start-up current. Short circuit analysis analyzes the power **flow** after a fault occurs in a power network. The faults may be three-phase short circuit, one-phase grounded, two-phase short circuit, two-phase grounded, one-phase break, two-phase break or complex faul...
1272. ...a large class of mathematical optimization problems. Electricity flows through an AC network according to Kirchhoff's Laws. Transmission lines are subject to thermal limits (simple megawatt limits on **flow**), as well as voltage and electrical stability constraints. The simulator must calculate the flows in the AC network that result from any given combination of unit commitment and generator megawatt di...
1273. ...hermal limits and the voltage and stability constraints. This may include contingencies such as the loss of any one transmission or generation element - a so-called security-constrained optimal power **flow** (SCOPF), and if the unit commitment is optimized inside this framework we have a security-constrained unit commitment (SCUC). In optimal power flow (OPF) the generalised scalar objective to be minimi...
1274. ...nt - a so-called security-constrained optimal power flow (SCOPF), and if the unit commitment is optimized inside this framework we have a security-constrained unit commitment (SCUC). In optimal power **flow** (OPF) the generalised scalar objective to be minimised is given by: where "u" is a set of the control variables, "x" is a set of independent variables, and the subscript 0 indicates that the variable...
1275. ...he variable refers to the pre-contingency power system. The SCOPF is bound by equality and inequality constraint limits. The equality constraint limits are given by the pre and post contingency power-**flow** equations, where "k" refers to the "k"th contingency case: The equipment and operating limits are given by the following inequalities: The objective function in OPF can take on different forms relati...
1276. ...reactive power quantities that we wish to either minimise or maximise. For example we may wish to minimise transmission losses or minimise real power generation costs on a power network. Other power **flow** solution methods like stochastic optimization incorporate the uncertainty found in modeling power systems by using the probability distributions of certain variables whose exact values are not known....
1277. ...robability of their occurrence in the real world. This method can be applied to simulations for system security and unit commitment risk, and it is increasingly being used to model probabilistic load **flow** with renewable and/or distributed generation. The cost of producing a megawatt of electrical energy is a function of: In addition to this, generating plant incur fixed costs including: Assuming perfe...
1278. ...es on optimizing the multi-year expansion and retirement plan for generation, transmission, and distribution facilities. The optimization problem will typically consider the long term investment cash **flow** and a simplified version of OPF / UC (Unit commitment), to make sure the power system operates in a secure and economic way. This area can be categorized as: A well-defined power systems study requir...
1279. ...ion) to ensure the power system meets reliability criteria (a loss of load expectation (LOLE) of no greater than 0.1 days per year). Further, a GE software package called PSLF (Positive Sequence Load **Flow**), Siemens software packages called PSSE (Power System Simulation for Engineering) as well as PSS SINCAL (Siemens Network Calculator), and Electrical Transient Analyzer Program (ETAP) by Operation Tec...
1280. ...s called PSSE (Power System Simulation for Engineering) as well as PSS SINCAL (Siemens Network Calculator), and Electrical Transient Analyzer Program (ETAP) by Operation Technology Inc. analyzes load **flow** on the power system for short-circuits and stability during preliminary planning studies by RTOs and ISOs. Appleton–Hartree equation The Appleton–Hartree equation, sometimes also referred to as the A...
1281. ...arger voltage may be applied. An insulation resistance test (IR test) measures the electrical resistance of insulation by applying a voltage between two locations, and measuring the resultant current **flow**. Proper safety precautions must be taken when doing this test, such as exclusion zones, making sure no wires are exposed, and personal protective equipment is worn. To do this test, you need to have...
1282. ...available. An earth continuity test checks if a metal part is connected to earth. The resistance of the connection to earth can also be measured. A leakage current test detects current that does not **flow** back through the circuit. This test may be used as part of testing GFCI or RCD operation. Visual inspection A survey without touching anything, and looking at the electrical installation or product b...
1283. ...e protons and hydroxyl ions are the charge-determining ions for most surfaces. Zeta potential can be measured using electrophoresis, electroacoustic phenomena, streaming potential, and electroosmotic **flow**. The characteristic thickness of the DL is the Debye length, κ. It is reciprocally proportional to the square root of the ion concentration "C". In aqueous solutions it is typically on the scale of a...
1284. ...> \sigma^d = -\sqrt Electrokinetic phenomena Electrokinetic phenomena are a family of several different effects that occur in heterogeneous fluids, or in porous bodies filled with fluid, or in a fast **flow** over a flat surface. The term heterogeneous here means a fluid containing particles. Particles can be solid, liquid or gas bubbles with sizes on the scale of a micrometer or nanometer. There is a com...
1285. ...ductivity takes place within the copper-oxide (CuO) sheets, with only weak coupling between adjacent CuO planes, making the properties close to that of a two-dimensional material. Electrical currents **flow** within the CuO sheets, resulting in a large anisotropy in normal conducting and superconducting properties, with a much higher conductivity parallel to the CuO plane than in the perpendicular directi...
1286. ...or electricity in a medium. This motion disrupts the equilibrium symmetry of the particle's double layer. While the particle moves, the ions in the electric double layer lag behind due to the liquid **flow**. This causes a slight displacement between the surface charge and the electric charge of the diffuse layer. As a result, the moving particle creates a dipole moment. The sum of all of the dipoles gen...
1287. ...ugh a gravitational force or centrifugation, an electric potential is induced. While the particle moves, ions in the electric double layer lag behind creating a net dipole moment behind due to liquid **flow**. The sum of all dipoles on the particle is what causes sedimentation potential. Sedimentation potential has the opposite effect compared to electrophoresis where an electric field is applied to the s...
1288. ...he resistance electrodes and buildup of charge by alternating the current. The pH of the system could be monitored and the electrolyte was drawn into the tube using a vacuum pump. Sedimentation field **flow** fractionation (SFFF) is a non-destructive separation technique which can be used for both separation, and collecting fractions. Some applications of SFFF include characterization of particle size of...
1289. ...n is dependent on experimental conditions, the typical analysis time is 1 to 2 hours, and it is a non-destructive technique which offers the possibility of collecting fraction. As sedimentation field **flow** fractionation (SFFF) is one of field flow fractionation separation techniques, it is appropriate for fractionation and characterization of particulate materials and soluble samples in the colloid siz...
1290. ...the typical analysis time is 1 to 2 hours, and it is a non-destructive technique which offers the possibility of collecting fraction. As sedimentation field flow fractionation (SFFF) is one of field **flow** fractionation separation techniques, it is appropriate for fractionation and characterization of particulate materials and soluble samples in the colloid size range. Differences in interaction betwee...
1291. ...ucial to any global conservation, green energy, or alternative energy strategy. An electric generator is a device that converts mechanical energy to electrical energy. A generator forces electrons to **flow** through an external electrical circuit. It is somewhat analogous to a water pump, which creates a flow of water but does not create the water inside. The source of mechanical energy, the , may be a r...
1292. ...s a device that converts mechanical energy to electrical energy. A generator forces electrons to flow through an external electrical circuit. It is somewhat analogous to a water pump, which creates a **flow** of water but does not create the water inside. The source of mechanical energy, the , may be a reciprocating or turbine steam engine, water falling through a turbine or waterwheel, an internal combus...
1293. ...tials (SP) are usually caused by charge separation in clay or other minerals, due to presence of semi-permeable interface impeding the diffusion of ions through the pore space of rocks, or by natural **flow** of a conducting fluid through the rocks. The origin of SP across formation can be attributed to two processes involving the movement of ions: Streaming potential originates from the flow of an electr...
1294. ...r by natural flow of a conducting fluid through the rocks. The origin of SP across formation can be attributed to two processes involving the movement of ions: Streaming potential originates from the **flow** of an electrolyte (water) over naturally charged solids (i.e., surfaces that acquired electrokinetic or "zeta" potential). The streaming potential appears when mud filtrate is forced into the formati...
1295. ...tential). The streaming potential appears when mud filtrate is forced into the formation under the differential pressure between mud column and formation. The streaming potential is produced when the **flow** takes place across mud-cake in front of permeable formations, across permeable formations being invaded, and across shale beds. It is generally accepted that the streaming potential across the mud-ca...
1296. ...onvert "R" to obtain "R". Electrodes can be placed on the ground surface to map relative changes in the SP value (in millivolts, or mV), typically with the goal of identifying the path of groundwater **flow** in the subsurface, or seepage from an earthen dam. A voltmeter measures the voltage between a fixed liquid-junction electrode and a mobile one (rover), which is moved along a dam face or over an area...
1297. ...ant developments have come from extending innovations in the information and communications technology (ICT) field to the power engineering field. For example, the development of computers meant load **flow** studies could be run more efficiently, allowing for much better planning of power systems. Advances in information technology and telecommunication also allowed for effective remote control of a powe...
1298. ...to make them more flexible and therefore easier to install. Conductors are typically rated for the maximum current that they can carry at a given temperature rise over ambient conditions. As current **flow** increases through a conductor it heats up. For insulated conductors, the rating is determined by the insulation. For bare conductors, the rating is determined by the point at which the sag of the con...
1299. ...ll below the surge impedance loading, the efficiency of the power system may actually be improved by switching in reactors. Reactors installed in series in a power system also limit rushes of current **flow**, small reactors are therefore almost always installed in series with capacitors to limit the current rush associated with switching in a capacitor. Series reactors can also be used to limit fault cur...
1300. ...urrent flows well in excess of that that would prove lethal to a human or animal. The first problem is resolved by the use of circuit breakers—devices that can be reset after they have broken current **flow**. In modern systems that use less than about 10 kW, miniature circuit breakers are typically used. These devices combine the mechanism that initiates the trip (by sensing excess current) as well as th...
1301. ...an about 10 kW, miniature circuit breakers are typically used. These devices combine the mechanism that initiates the trip (by sensing excess current) as well as the mechanism that breaks the current **flow** in a single unit. Some miniature circuit breakers operate solely on the basis of electromagnetism. In these miniature circuit breakers, the current is run through a solenoid, and, in the event of exc...
1302. ...unit. Some miniature circuit breakers operate solely on the basis of electromagnetism. In these miniature circuit breakers, the current is run through a solenoid, and, in the event of excess current **flow**, the magnetic pull of the solenoid is sufficient to force open the circuit breaker's contacts (often indirectly through a tripping mechanism). In higher powered applications, the protective relays th...
1303. ...e: Commercial power systems such as shopping centers or high-rise buildings are larger in scale than residential systems. Electrical designs for larger commercial systems are usually studied for load **flow**, short-circuit fault levels and voltage drop. The objectives of the studies are to assure proper equipment and conductor sizing, and to coordinate protective devices so that minimal disruption is cau...
1304. ...trode, often also called the counter electrode, is an electrode used in a three-electrode electrochemical cell for voltammetric analysis or other reactions in which an electric current is expected to **flow**. The auxiliary electrode is distinct from the reference electrode, which establishes the electrical potential against which other potentials may be measured, and the working electrode, at which the c...
1305. ...an IC engine's energy is lost through exhaust gas heat. Implementing ATEGs in diesel engines seems to be more challenging compared to gasoline engines due to lower exhaust temperature and higher mass-**flow** rates. This is the reason most ATEG development has been focused on gasoline engines. However, there exist several ATEG designs for light-duty and heavy-duty diesel engines. By converting the lost he...
1306. ...r, as well. However, given an ATEG's relatively low impact on the use of an automobile, its challenges are not as considerable as other new automotive technologies. For instance, since exhaust has to **flow** through the ATEG's heat exchanger, kinetic energy from the gas is lost, causing increased pumping losses. This is referred to as back pressure, which reduces the engine's performance. This can be acc...
1307. ...wires. In 1882 Diehl obtained the first patent on this induction incandescent lamp. The base of the lamp contained a wire coil that coupled with a primary coil in the lamp socket, causing current to **flow** through the lamp without the need for lead-in wires. Two additional patents were granted in 1883, followed by patents for electrical lighting systems in 1885 and 1886. Following is a partial list of...
1308. ...r electric motor consists of a rotor spinning in a magnetic field. The magnetic field may be produced by permanent magnets or by field coils. In the case of a machine with field coils, a current must **flow** in the coils to generate ("excite") the field, otherwise no power is transferred to or from the rotor. Field coils yield the most flexible form of magnetic flux regulation and de-regulation, but at t...
1309. ...generate ("excite") the field, otherwise no power is transferred to or from the rotor. Field coils yield the most flexible form of magnetic flux regulation and de-regulation, but at the expense of a **flow** of electric current. Hybrid topologies exist, which incorporate both permanent magnets and field coils in the same configuration. The flexible excitation of a rotating electrical machine is employed...
1310. ...ifference may exist between them. However, when two different neutral metal surfaces are brought into electrical contact (even indirectly, say, through a long electro-conductive wire), electrons will **flow** from the metal with the higher Fermi level to the metal with the lower Fermi level until the Fermi levels in the two phases are equal. Once this has occurred, the metals are in thermodynamic equilibr...
1311. ...en two metals are electrically isolated from each other, an arbitrary voltage difference may exist between them. However, when two different metals are brought into electronic contact, electrons will **flow** from the metal with a lower voltage to the metal with the higher voltage until the Fermi level of the electrons in the bulk of both phases are equal. The actual numbers of electrons that passes betwe...
1312. ...llustrated in this diagram. The so-called gas distribution layer is located in the middle of the electrode. With only a small gas pressure, the electrolyte is displaced from this pore system. A small **flow** resistance ensures that the gas can freely flow inside the electrode. At a slightly higher gas pressure the electrolyte in the pore system is restricted to the work layer. The surface layer itself ha...
1313. ...stribution layer is located in the middle of the electrode. With only a small gas pressure, the electrolyte is displaced from this pore system. A small flow resistance ensures that the gas can freely **flow** inside the electrode. At a slightly higher gas pressure the electrolyte in the pore system is restricted to the work layer. The surface layer itself has such fine pores that, even when the pressure p...
1314. ...rode. At a slightly higher gas pressure the electrolyte in the pore system is restricted to the work layer. The surface layer itself has such fine pores that, even when the pressure peaks, gas cannot **flow** through the electrode into the electrolyte. Such electrodes were produced by scattering and subsequent sintering or hot pressing. To produce multi-layered electrodes a fine-grained material was scatt...
1315. ...the device and transfers it to the other as current is passed through the material. This is known as the Peltier effect. The direction of heating and cooling is determined by the direction of current **flow** and the sign of the majority electrical carrier in the thermoelectric material. Thermoelectric power generation (TEG) on the other hand occurs when the thermal bump is subjected to a temperature grad...
1316. ...fixed stand-off independent of pitch. This is extremely important as most of the high-end products are underfilled and a smaller standoff may create difficulties in getting the underfill adhesive to **flow** under the die. Figure 2 shows an example of a CPB fabricated by Intel and incorporated into their Presler line of microprocessors among others. The cross section shows copper and a copper pillar (app...
1317. ...ill be generated in the material in a phenomenon known as the Seebeck effect. The Seebeck effect is essentially the reverse of the Peltier effect. In this mode, electrical power is generated from the **flow** of heat in the TE element. The structure shown in Figure 3 is capable of operating in both the Peltier and Seebeck modes, though not simultaneously. Figure 4 shows a schematic of a typical CPB and a...
1318. ...and thermal bumps can be any one of a number of commonly used solders including, but not limited to, Sn, SnPb eutectic, SnAg or AuSn. Figure 5 shows a device equipped with a thermal bump. The thermal **flow** is shown by the arrows labeled “heat.” Metal traces, which can be several micrometres high, can be stacked or interdigitated to provide highly conductive pathways for collecting heat from the underly...
1319. .... Blood can be inserted onto a microfluidic chip with magnetic nanoparticles in it. These magnetic nanoparticles are trapped inside due to an externally applied magnetic field as the blood is free to **flow** through. The magnetic nanoparticles are coated with antibodies targeting cancer cells or proteins. The magnetic nanoparticles can be recovered and the attached cancer-associated molecules can be assa...
1320. ...anoparticles via a diazonium reaction. The resulting catalyst was then used for the chemoselective oxidation of primary and secondary alcohols. The catalytic reaction can be conducted in a continuous **flow** reactor instead of a batch reactor with no remains of the catalyst in the end product. Graphene coated cobalt nanoparticles have been used for that experiment since they exhibit a higher magnetizatio...
1321. ...entrifugal force flings the solution away from the center of the electrode. Solution flows up, perpendicular to the electrode, from the bulk to replace the boundary layer. The sum result is a laminar **flow** of solution towards and across the electrode. The rate of the solution flow can be controlled by the electrode's angular velocity and modeled mathematically. This flow can quickly achieve conditions...
1322. ...Solution flows up, perpendicular to the electrode, from the bulk to replace the boundary layer. The sum result is a laminar flow of solution towards and across the electrode. The rate of the solution **flow** can be controlled by the electrode's angular velocity and modeled mathematically. This flow can quickly achieve conditions in which the steady-state current is controlled by the solution flow rather...
1323. ...er. The sum result is a laminar flow of solution towards and across the electrode. The rate of the solution flow can be controlled by the electrode's angular velocity and modeled mathematically. This **flow** can quickly achieve conditions in which the steady-state current is controlled by the solution flow rather than diffusion. This is a contrast to still and unstirred experiments such as cyclic voltamm...
1324. ...olution flow can be controlled by the electrode's angular velocity and modeled mathematically. This flow can quickly achieve conditions in which the steady-state current is controlled by the solution **flow** rather than diffusion. This is a contrast to still and unstirred experiments such as cyclic voltammetry where the steady-state current is limited by the diffusion of species in solution.  By running...
1325. ...an be extended to "rotating double-ring electrodes", "rotating double-ring-disk electrodes", and even more esoteric constructions, as suited to the experiment. The RRDE takes advantage of the laminar **flow** created during rotation. As the system is rotated, the solution in contact with the electrode is driven to its side, similar to the situation of a rotating disk electrode. As the solution flows to th...
1326. ...electrode is driven to its side, similar to the situation of a rotating disk electrode. As the solution flows to the side, it crosses the ring electrode and flows back into the bulk solution. If the **flow** in the solution is laminar, the solution is brought in contact with the disk and with the ring quickly afterward, in a very controlled manner. The resulting currents depend on the potential, area, an...
1327. ...plex could be oxidized at the disk and then reduced back to the starting material at the ring. It is easy to predict what the ring/disk current ratios is if this process is entirely controlled by the **flow** of solution. If it is not controlled by the flow of the solution the current will deviate. For example, if the first oxidation is followed by a chemical reaction, an EC mechanism, to form a product t...
1328. ...ed back to the starting material at the ring. It is easy to predict what the ring/disk current ratios is if this process is entirely controlled by the flow of solution. If it is not controlled by the **flow** of the solution the current will deviate. For example, if the first oxidation is followed by a chemical reaction, an EC mechanism, to form a product that can not be reduced at the ring then the magni...
1329. ...ductors, all the pairs move coherently, allowing for the electric current without resistance. In superinsulators, both Cooper pairs and normal excitations are confined and the electric current cannot **flow**. A mechanism behind superinsulation is the proliferation of magnetic monopoles at low temperatures. In two dimensions (2D), magnetic monopoles are quantum tunneling events (instantons) that are often...
1330. ...s due to the applied electric field, often stated as the electromotive force over a given distance. When an electric field is applied across a semiconductor material, a current is produced due to the **flow** of charge carriers. The "drift velocity" is the average velocity of the charge carriers in the drift current. The drift velocity, and resulting current, is characterized by the "mobility"; for detail...
1331. ...t known as "drift current". Drift current density due to the charge carriers such as free electrons and holes is the current passing through a square centimeter area perpendicular to the direction of **flow**. (i) Drift current density formula_1, due to free electrons is given by: formula_2 (ii) Drift current density formula_3, due to holes is given by: formula_4 Where:<br> formula_5 - Number of free elec...
1332. ...rities require that the door only be opened when the refrigerator motor is already running. Otherwise, the motor will be caused to go on sooner by the increase in temperature indirectly caused by the **flow** of heat from the outside. Most refrigerators and freezers automatically turn the motor on to operate the cooling pump whenever the thermostat detects a temperature that is too high to keep the food c...
1333. ...the desire that so much milk not go to waste, it was proposed to attach the pumping machine on Shabbat, to let the first few drops go to waste, then position a container to store the subsequent milk **flow**. While the Chazon Ish wrote that such a practice is forbidden, he is reported to have permitted it when asked orally, and some communities have used the practice accordingly. Using a device invented...
1334. ...ng cathodes and anodes where chemical reactions occur. A separator also exists between cathode and anode which stops the electrodes reacting together at the same time as allowing electrical charge to **flow** freely between the two. Lastly, the collector conducts a charge from the battery to outside. Batteries inside solar lamps usually use gel electrolyte technology with high performance in deep discharg...
1335. ...erically solving differential equations arising in engineering and mathematical modeling. Typical problem areas of interest include the traditional fields of structural analysis, heat transfer, fluid **flow**, mass transport, and electromagnetic potential. Computers are usually used to perform the calculations required. With high-speed supercomputers, better solutions can be achieved, and are often requir...
1336. ...oblem into a large number of cells/gridpoints (millions and more). Therefore the cost of the solution favors simpler, lower-order approximation within each cell. This is especially true for 'external **flow**' problems, like airflow around the car, airplane, or weather simulation. Another method used for approximating solutions to a partial differential equation is the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT), where...
1337. ...tion efficiencies were determined as a function of plasma energy density, initial contaminant concentration, residence time in plasma volume, reactor volume, and the number of contaminants in the gas **flow** stream. Complete destruction of VOC's can be achieved in the annular reactor for specific energies of 3 J cm−3 and above. Furthermore, specific energies approaching 10 J cm−3 are required to achieve...
1338. ...ieved in the annular reactor for specific energies of 3 J cm−3 and above. Furthermore, specific energies approaching 10 J cm−3 are required to achieve a comparable destruction efficiency in the cross-**flow** reactor. This indicates that optimization of the reactor geometry is a critical aspect of achieving maximum destruction efficiencies. Koutsospyros "et al." (2004, 2005) and Yin "et al." (2003) report...
1339. ...rature, there are no lasting effects that may cause harm. Microplasmas serve as energetic sources of ions and radicals, which are desirable for activating chemical reactions. Microplasmas are used as **flow** reactors that allow molecular gases to flow through the microplasma inducing chemical modifications by molecular decomposition. The high energy electrons of microplasmas accommodate chemical modifica...
1340. ...y cause harm. Microplasmas serve as energetic sources of ions and radicals, which are desirable for activating chemical reactions. Microplasmas are used as flow reactors that allow molecular gases to **flow** through the microplasma inducing chemical modifications by molecular decomposition. The high energy electrons of microplasmas accommodate chemical modification and reformation of liquid hydrocarbon f...
1341. ...sition. The high energy electrons of microplasmas accommodate chemical modification and reformation of liquid hydrocarbon fuels to produce fuel for fuel cells. Becker and his co-workers used a single **flow**-through dc-excited microplasma reactor to generate hydrogen from an atmospheric pressure mixture of ammonia and argon for use in small, portable fuel cells. Lindner and Besser experimented with refor...
1342. ...Microplasma uses in research are being considered. The plasma skin regeneration (PSR) device consists of an ultra–high-radiofrequency generator that excites a tuned resonator and imparts energy to a **flow** of inert nitrogen gas within the handpiece. The plasma generated has an optical emission spectrum with peaks in the visible range (mainly indigo and violet) and near-infrared range. Nitrogen is used...
1343. ...date this technique has failed to achieve the resolution of industry standard microelectronics, with pinnacle pathway width results of approx. 9μm, but noted potential for improvements to process gas **flow** and possible post-processing enhancements stand to assist in closing the gap. Given the method’s relatively low cost and its broad versatility, attaining production quality on par with modern industr...
1344. ...of networks. Figure 2.2 shows a graph representation of the circuit in figure 2.1. Graphs used in network analysis are usually, in addition, both directed graphs, to capture the direction of current **flow** and voltage, and labelled graphs, to capture the uniqueness of the branches and nodes. For instance, a graph consisting of a square of branches would still be the same topological graph if two branch...
1345. ...o deal with mutual couplings. There are two basic approaches available for dealing with mutual couplings and active components. In the first of these, Samuel Jefferson Mason in 1953 introduced signal-**flow** graphs. Signal-flow graphs are weighted, directed graphs. He used these to analyse circuits containing mutual couplings and active networks. The weight of a directed edge in these graphs represents a...
1346. ...ouplings. There are two basic approaches available for dealing with mutual couplings and active components. In the first of these, Samuel Jefferson Mason in 1953 introduced signal-flow graphs. Signal-**flow** graphs are weighted, directed graphs. He used these to analyse circuits containing mutual couplings and active networks. The weight of a directed edge in these graphs represents a gain, such as posse...
1347. ...used these to analyse circuits containing mutual couplings and active networks. The weight of a directed edge in these graphs represents a gain, such as possessed by an amplifier. In general, signal-**flow** graphs, unlike the regular directed graphs described above, do not correspond to the topology of the physical arrangement of components. The second approach is to extend the classical method so that...
1348. ...e cathode and its negative terminal is the anode. The terminal marked negative is the source of electrons. When a battery is connected to an external electric load, those negatively charged electrons **flow** through the circuit and reach to the positive terminal, thus cause a redox reaction by attracting positively charged ions, cations. Thus converts high-energy reactants to lower-energy products, and t...
1349. ...toms are oxidized (electrons are removed) at the anode. Some cells use different electrolytes for each half-cell; then a separator is used to prevent mixing of the electrolytes while allowing ions to **flow** between half-cells to complete the electrical circuit. Each half-cell has an electromotive force ("emf", measured in volts) relative to a standard. The net emf of the cell is the difference between t...
1350. ..., deliver a peak current of 450 amperes. Many types of electrochemical cells have been produced, with varying chemical processes and designs, including galvanic cells, electrolytic cells, fuel cells, **flow** cells and voltaic piles. A "wet cell" battery has a liquid electrolyte. Other names are "flooded cell", since the liquid covers all internal parts or "vented cell", since gases produced during operat...
1351. ...hat use a molten salt as electrolyte. They operate at high temperatures and must be well insulated to retain heat. A "dry cell" uses a paste electrolyte, with only enough moisture to allow current to **flow**. Unlike a wet cell, a dry cell can operate in any orientation without spilling, as it contains no free liquid, making it suitable for portable equipment. By comparison, the first wet cells were typic...
1352. ...average over the gyrophase angle at constant guiding center position, denoted by formula_14, yielding the gyrokinetic equation. The electrostatic gyrokinetic equation, in the absence of large plasma **flow**, is given by formula_15 Here the first term represents the change in the perturbed distribution function, formula_16, with time. The second term represents particle streaming along the magnetic field...
1353. ...ctro-osmosis (ACEO) : P.-Y. Chiou, "et al.", "J. Microelectromech. Syst." 17, pp. 525-531 (2008) 3. Electro-orientation :W. Choi, "et al.", "Appl. Phys. Lett." 93, pp. 143901 (2008) 4. Electrothermal **flow** : A. Mizuno, "et al.", "IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl." 31, pp. 464-468 (1995), S.J. Williams, A. Kumar and S. T. Wereley, "Lab Chip" 8, pp. 1879-1882 (2008) 5. Combination of AC Electrokinetics : H. Hwang a...
1354. ...k, the battery had to be started again, and then stopped. Page invented the first interrupters, to provide a repeatable means of connecting and disconnecting the circuit. In these devices, electrical **flow** is started and stopped as a rocking or rotary motion lifts electrical contacts out of a mercury pool. An electric motor effect is responsible for the continued operation of the switch. Crucial to Pag...
1355. ...r from on-site hydrogen generators. Degradation of bearings leads to higher oil leaks, which increases the amount of air transferred into the generator. Increased oil consumption can be detected by a **flow** meter for each bearing. Presence of water in hydrogen has to be avoided, as it causes deterioration of hydrogen's cooling properties, corrosion of the generator parts, and arcing in the high voltage...
1356. ...eater efficiency than that of a wind turbine in unstable weather conditions, thus allowing up to a 7% increase in wind speed under stable conditions. This is due to a faster recovery wake and greater **flow** entrainment that occur in conditions of higher atmospheric stability. However, wind turbine wakes have been found to recover faster under unstable atmospheric conditions as opposed to a stable enviro...
1357. ...ely low rotational speed with the consequential higher torque and hence higher cost of the drive train, the inherently lower power coefficient, the 360-degree rotation of the aerofoil within the wind **flow** during each cycle and hence the highly dynamic loading on the blade, the pulsating torque generated by some rotor designs on the drive train, and the difficulty of modelling the wind flow accurately...
1358. ...in the wind flow during each cycle and hence the highly dynamic loading on the blade, the pulsating torque generated by some rotor designs on the drive train, and the difficulty of modelling the wind **flow** accurately and hence the challenges of analysing and designing the rotor prior to fabricating a prototype. When a turbine is mounted on a rooftop the building generally redirects wind over the roof a...
1359. ...sions of lightning arresters, also called surge protectors, are devices that are connected between each electrical conductor in a power or communications system, and the ground. They help prevent the **flow** of the normal power or signal currents to ground, but provide a path over which high-voltage lightning current flows, bypassing the connected equipment. Arresters are used to limit the rise in voltag...
1360. ...nsient voltage suppressors, and blocked using electronic filters once the let-through voltage is low enough. Filters, like insulators, are only effective when lightning and surge currents are able to **flow** through an alternate path. A lightning protection installation on a watercraft comprises a "lightning protector" mounted on the top of a mast or superstructure, and a "grounding conductor" in contact...
1361. ...hing any other conductive structures, may be very difficult to catch with non-destructive techniques that are not electrical in nature. Here, the availability of analytical tools that can map out the **flow** of electric current inside the package provide valuable information to guide the failure analyst to potential defect locations. Figure 1a shows the schematic of our first case study consisting of a t...
1362. ...along its course through a part. The SQUID detector has been used in failure analysis for many years, and is now commercially available for use at the package level. The ability of SQUID to track the **flow** of current provides a virtual roadmap of the short, including the location in plan view of the shorting material in a package. We used the SQUID facilities at Neocera to investigate the failure in th...
1363. ..., organic films can be etched with this process using a surfactant solution as the electrolyte. As a "non-contact" process, the effect differs from traditional electrochemical processes where carrier **flow** through the surface is achieved by connection to a current source with highly conductive materials such as copper wire. Materials contacted to an anode can be modified in a variety of ways including...
1364. ...response. Normally, cells must be attached to a substrate so that their position can be determined by the imaging system. Recent advancements in beam position control and high speed imaging have made **flow** through systems possible (Flow and Shoot). Some facilities have developed or are developing soft x-ray microbeams. In these systems, zone plates are used to focus characteristic x rays generated from...
1365. ...be attached to a substrate so that their position can be determined by the imaging system. Recent advancements in beam position control and high speed imaging have made flow through systems possible (**Flow** and Shoot). Some facilities have developed or are developing soft x-ray microbeams. In these systems, zone plates are used to focus characteristic x rays generated from a target hit by a charged part...

=== INSTANTANEOUS CURRENT (8 occurrences) ===
1. ...universal EMF equation: A dot convention is often used in transformer circuit diagrams, nameplates or terminal markings to define the relative polarity of transformer windings. Positively increasing **instantaneous current** entering the primary winding's 'dot' end induces positive polarity voltage exiting the secondary winding's 'dot' end. Three-phase transformers used in electric power systems will have a nameplate tha...
2. ...urrent are out-of-phase (detailed above). That is, current will flow for an out-of-phase system, however real power at certain times will not be transferred, because there will be points during which **instantaneous current** is positive while instantaneous voltage is negative, or vice versa, implying negative power transfer. Hence, real work is not performed when power transfer is "negative". However, current still flows...
3. ...arge must flow through the device in the direction of increasing potential energy, conventional current (positive charge) must move from the negative to the positive terminal. So the direction of the **instantaneous current** is "out" of the positive terminal. This is opposite to the direction of current in a passive device defined by the passive sign convention so the current and voltage have opposite signs, and their ra...
4. ...to the coil's inductive nature, and calibrated using a lag coil. This produces eddy currents in the disc and the effect is such that a force is exerted on the disc in proportion to the product of the **instantaneous current** and instantaneous voltage. A permanent magnet acts as an eddy current brake, exerting an opposing force proportional to the speed of rotation of the disc. The equilibrium between these two opposing f...
5. ...and the voltage from one side of the circuit to the other ("V", measured in volts): For alternating current, both the voltage and current are oscillating. Instantaneous power is still the product of **instantaneous current** and instantaneous voltage, but if both of those are ideal sine waves driving a purely resistive load (like an incandescent light bulb), average power becomes (with subscripts designating average (av)...
6. ...hour requires precise data of voltage: in a battery system, for example, accurate calculation of the energy delivered requires integration of the power delivered (product of instantaneous voltage and **instantaneous current**) over the discharge interval. Generally, the battery voltage varies during discharge; an average value or nominal value may be used to approximate the integration of power. When comparing the energy...
7. ...can result in incorrect operation of amplifiers and speaker systems, or cancellation of signals that are meant to add. Leads of primary and secondary windings are said to be of the same polarity when **instantaneous current** entering the primary winding lead results in instantaneous current leaving the secondary winding lead as though the two leads were a continuous circuit. In the case of two windings wound around the s...
8. ..., or cancellation of signals that are meant to add. Leads of primary and secondary windings are said to be of the same polarity when instantaneous current entering the primary winding lead results in **instantaneous current** leaving the secondary winding lead as though the two leads were a continuous circuit. In the case of two windings wound around the same core in parallel, for example, the polarity will be the same on...

=== SELF-INDUCTANCE (19 occurrences) ===
1. ...posal was that loading coils (inductors) should be added to telephone and telegraph lines to increase their self-induction and correct the distortion which they suffered. Preece had recently declared **self-inductance** to be the great enemy of clear transmission. Heaviside was also convinced that Preece was behind the sacking of the editor of "The Electrician" which brought his long-running series of articles to a...
2. ...nserved in the input and output: where formula_1 is apparent power and formula_2 is current. Combining Eq. 3 & Eq. 4 with this endnote gives the ideal transformer identity: where formula_3 is winding **self-inductance**. By Ohm's law and ideal transformer identity: where formula_4 is the load impedance of the secondary circuit & formula_5 is the apparent load or driving point impedance of the primary circuit, the su...
3. ...y excess heat. Since lightning strikes are pulses of energy with very high frequency components, grounding systems for lightning protection tend to use short straight runs of conductors to reduce the **self-inductance** and skin effect. In an electrical substation a ground (earth) mat is a mesh of conductive material installed at places where a person would stand to operate a switch or other apparatus; it is bonded...
4. ...hysteresis (in the case of copper oxide based high-temperature superconductors the junction's own intrinsic resistance is usually sufficient). The screening current is the applied flux divided by the **self-inductance** of the ring. Thus formula_18 can be estimated as the function of formula_19 (flux to voltage converter) as follows: The discussion in this section assumed perfect flux quantization in the loop. Howev...
5. ...the function of formula_19 (flux to voltage converter) as follows: The discussion in this section assumed perfect flux quantization in the loop. However, this is only true for big loops with a large **self-inductance**. According to the relations, given above, this implies also small current and voltage variations. In practice the self-inductance formula_22 of the loop is not so large. The general case can be evalu...
6. ...on in the loop. However, this is only true for big loops with a large self-inductance. According to the relations, given above, this implies also small current and voltage variations. In practice the **self-inductance** formula_22 of the loop is not so large. The general case can be evaluated by introducing a parameter where formula_26 is the critical current of the SQUID. Usually formula_27 is of order one. The RF...
7. ...agnetic fields are relative, see Lorentz transformation. If the current is alternating because the applied voltage or E-field varies in time, then reactance must be added to resistance to account for **self-inductance**, see electrical impedance. The reactance may be strong if the frequency is high or the conductor is coiled. In a conductive fluid, such as a plasma, there is a similar effect. Consider a fluid moving...
8. ...enry (symbol: H) is the unit of electrical inductance in the International System of Units (SI). If a current of 1 ampere flowing through a coil produces flux linkage of 1 weber turn, that coil has a **self-inductance** of 1 henry.‌ The unit is named after Joseph Henry (1797–1878), the American scientist who discovered electromagnetic induction independently of and at about the same time as Michael Faraday (1791–186...
9. ...rough which it leaves, tending to reduce the current. If the current is decreasing, the voltage is positive at the end through which the current leaves the conductor, tending to maintain the current. **Self-inductance**, usually just called inductance, formula_1 is the ratio between the induced voltage and the rate of change of the current formula_7 Thus, inductance is a property of a conductor or circuit, due to it...
10. ...in circuit formula_11 to the rate of change of current in circuit This is the principle behind a "transformer". The property describing the effect of one conductor on itself is more precisely called "**self-inductance**", and the properties describing the effects of one conductor with changing current on nearby conductors is called "mutual inductance". If the current through a conductor with inductance is increasing...
11. ...Where high frequency currents are considered, with skin effect, the surface current densities and magnetic field may be obtained by solving the Laplace equation. Where the conductors are thin wires, **self-inductance** still depends on the wire radius and the distribution of the current in the wire. This current distribution is approximately constant (on the surface or in the volume of the wire) for a wire radius m...
12. ...try of the circuits is small enough compared to the wavelength of the current they carry). It is actually an approximation step, and is valid only for local circuits made of thin wires. Formally, the **self-inductance** of a wire loop would be given by the above equation with formula_66 However, here formula_67 becomes infinite, leading to a logarithmically divergent integral. This necessitates taking the finite wir...
13. ..._151 where The power through one inductor is the same as the power through the other. These equations neglect any forcing by current sources or voltage sources. The table below lists formulas for the **self-inductance** of various simple shapes made of thin cylindrical conductors (wires). In general these are only accurate if the wire radius formula_152 is much smaller than the dimensions of the shape, and if no fer...
14. ...or of the Smithsonian Institution. He also served as president of the National Academy of Sciences from 1868 to 1878. While building electromagnets, Henry discovered the electromagnetic phenomenon of **self-inductance**. He also discovered mutual inductance independently of Michael Faraday, though Faraday was the first to make the discovery and publish his results. Henry developed the electromagnet into a practical...
15. ...ped elements by considering parasitic capacitances distributed between the conductors to model capacitive coupling, or parasitic (mutual) inductances to model inductive coupling. Wires also have some **self-inductance**. Assume an electric network consisting of two voltage sources and three resistors. According to the first law: formula_8 Applying the second law to the closed circuit , and substituting for voltage u...
16. ...s way it effectively has only one side and one continuous surface.  Its connectors are attached at the same point on the circumference but on opposite surfaces.  It provides a resistor with a reduced **self-inductance**, meaning that it can resist the flow of electricity in a more frequency-independent manner. Due to a symmetrical construction, the voltage between the conductive surfaces of the Möbius resistor in th...
17. ...the amplitude of the short-circuit current : formula_1, where "Z" is the surge impedance of the line. The standardized value of "Z" is 450 Ω, it is equal to formula_2, where "l" and "c" are the line **self-inductance** and capacitance per unit length. Heusler compound Heusler compounds are magnetic intermetallics with face-centered cubic crystal structure and a composition of XYZ (half-Heuslers) or XYZ (full-Heusle...
18. ...from a ribbon strip of copper, spiralled up between fabric insulation, at the moment when battery current stopped running in this conductor. These strong shocks manifested the electrical property of **self-inductance** which Faraday had identified in researches published prior to Henry's, building on his own landmark discovery of electromagnetic induction. Page seemed to be unaware of Faraday's analysis. Page's inn...
19. ...or "downleads"), which are connected by the most direct route to one or more grounding or earthing terminals. Connections to the earth electrodes must not only have low resistance, but must have low **self-inductance**. An example of a structure vulnerable to lightning is a wooden barn. When lightning strikes the barn, the wooden structure and its contents may be ignited by the heat generated by lightning current c...

=== EFFICIENCY (798 occurrences) ===
1. ...ation involves heating fixed metals together in certain proportion, followed by gradual cooling and annealing. Bonding in them is predominantly metallic and the crystal structure primarily depends on **efficiency** of packing. There are few compounds with lower oxidation states. A few aluminium(I) compounds exist: AlF, AlCl, AlBr, and AlI exist in the gaseous phase when the respective trihalide is heated with a...
2. ...running total of the electric energy delivered to a customer. Unlike fossil fuels, electricity is a low entropy form of energy and can be converted into motion or many other forms of energy with high **efficiency**. Electronics deals with electrical circuits that involve active electrical components such as vacuum tubes, transistors, diodes, sensors and integrated circuits, and associated passive interconnectio...
3. ...reactants can be replenished from external reservoirs. The fuel cell can turn the chemical energy bound in hydrocarbon gases or hydrogen and oxygen directly into electrical energy with a much higher **efficiency** than any combustion process; such devices have powered many spacecraft and are being applied to grid energy storage for the public power system. Corrosion is an electrochemical process, which reveals...
4. ...olyte-interphase layer. The interface which regulates the ion and charge transfer and can be degraded by stress. Thus, more ions in the solution will be consumed to reform it, diminishing the overall **efficiency** of the system. In a vacuum tube or a semiconductor having polarity (diodes, electrolytic capacitors) the anode is the positive (+) electrode and the cathode the negative (−). The electrons enter the...
5. ...s resistance dissipates some of the reactive energy. The quality factor (or "Q") of an inductor is the ratio of its inductive reactance to its resistance at a given frequency, and is a measure of its **efficiency**. The higher the Q factor of the inductor, the closer it approaches the behavior of an ideal inductor. High Q inductors are used with capacitors to make resonant circuits in radio transmitters and rec...
6. ...soidal signals. Two (or more) inductors in proximity that have coupled magnetic flux (mutual inductance) form a transformer, which is a fundamental component of every electric utility power grid. The **efficiency** of a transformer may decrease as the frequency increases due to eddy currents in the core material and skin effect on the windings. The size of the core can be decreased at higher frequencies. For th...
7. ...n Australia, Japan, and the United States in frequency regulation, solar smoothing and shifting, wind smoothing, and other applications. These batteries have lower energy density and charge-discharge **efficiency** than lithium-ion batteries, but are significantly cheaper. Lead is used in high voltage power cables as shell material to prevent water diffusion into insulation; this use is decreasing as lead is be...
8. ...lectric won the bid to light the Exposition with alternating current and it was a key event in the history of AC power, as the company demonstrated to the American public the safety, reliability, and **efficiency** of an alternating current system that was polyphase and could also supply the other AC and DC exhibits at the fair. A special exhibit space was set up to display various forms and models of Tesla's i...
9. ...ll of these attributes. The absolute value for the exposure time required depends on how sensitive to light the medium being used is (measured by the film speed, or, for digital media, by the quantum **efficiency**). Early photography used media that had very low light sensitivity, and so exposure times had to be long even for very bright shots. As technology has improved, so has the sensitivity through film ca...
10. ...cation of the piezoelectric technology have emerged to harvest kinetic energy from walking pedestrians. In this case, locating high traffic areas is critical for optimization of the energy harvesting **efficiency**, as well as the orientation of the tile pavement significantly affects the total amount of the harvested energy. A density flow evaluation is recommended to qualitatively evaluate the piezoelectric p...
11. ...signs. Tire company Goodyear has plans to develop an electricity generating tire which has piezoelectric material lined inside it. As the tire moves, it deforms and thus electricity is generated. The **efficiency** of a hybrid photovoltaic cell that contains piezoelectric materials can be increased simply by placing it near a source of ambient noise or vibration. The effect was demonstrated with organic cells u...
12. ...th organic cells using zinc oxide nanotubes. The electricity generated by the piezoelectric effect itself is a negligible percentage of the overall output. Sound levels as low as 75 decibels improved **efficiency** by up to 50%. Efficiency peaked at 10 kHz, the resonant frequency of the nanotubes. The electrical field set up by the vibrating nanotubes interacts with electrons migrating from the organic polymer...
13. ...nc oxide nanotubes. The electricity generated by the piezoelectric effect itself is a negligible percentage of the overall output. Sound levels as low as 75 decibels improved efficiency by up to 50%. **Efficiency** peaked at 10 kHz, the resonant frequency of the nanotubes. The electrical field set up by the vibrating nanotubes interacts with electrons migrating from the organic polymer layer. This process decre...
14. ...single-photon detectors offer high speed, low noise single-photon detection and have been employed widely in advanced photon-counting applications. Other early markets are arising where the relative **efficiency**, size and weight advantages of devices based on high-temperature superconductivity outweigh the additional costs involved. For example, in wind turbines the lower weight and volume of superconducting...
15. ...nce but could also improve public acceptance for expansion of the electric grid. Another attractive industrial aspect is the ability for high power transmission at lower voltages. Advancements in the **efficiency** of cooling systems and use of cheap coolants such as liquid nitrogen have also significantly decreased cooling costs needed for superconductivity. As of 2022, there have been five Nobel Prizes in Phy...
16. ...the construction of more capable and reliable devices. Alexander Graham Bell used the light-sensitive property of selenium to transmit sound over a beam of light in 1880. A working solar cell, of low **efficiency**, was constructed by Charles Fritts in 1883, using a metal plate coated with selenium and a thin layer of gold; the device became commercially useful in photographic light meters in the 1930s. Point-c...
17. ...quation above, it is assumed that decay of the number of excited states formula_12 only occurs under emission of light. In this case one speaks of full radiative decay and this means that the quantum **efficiency** is 100%. Besides radiative decay, which occurs under the emission of light, there is a second decay mechanism; nonradiative decay. To determine the total decay rate formula_53, radiative and nonradia...
18. ...formula_53, radiative and nonradiative rates should be summed: where formula_53 is the total decay rate, formula_22 is the radiative decay rate and formula_57 the nonradiative decay rate. The quantum **efficiency** (QE) is defined as the fraction of emission processes in which emission of light is involved: In nonradiative relaxation, the energy is released as phonons, more commonly known as heat. Nonradiative...
19. ...energy loss in each direction. SMES loses the least amount of electricity in the energy storage process compared to other methods of storing energy. SMES systems are highly efficient; the round-trip **efficiency** is greater than 95%. Due to the energy requirements of refrigeration and the high cost of superconducting wire, SMES is currently used for short duration energy storage. Therefore, SMES is most commo...
20. ...te, the coil resistance is negligible. However, the refrigerator necessary to keep the superconductor cool requires electric power and this refrigeration energy must be considered when evaluating the **efficiency** of SMES as an energy storage device. Although high-temperature superconductors (HTS) have higher critical temperature, flux lattice melting takes place in moderate magnetic fields around a temperatur...
21. ...other major components determining the cost of SMES: Conductor consisting of superconductor and copper stabilizer and cold support are major costs in themselves. They must be judged with the overall **efficiency** and cost of the device. Other components, such as vacuum vessel insulation, has been shown to be a small part compared to the large coil cost. The combined costs of conductors, structure and refriger...
22. ...inder. The superconductor material is a key issue for SMES. Superconductor development efforts focus on increasing Jc and strain range and on reducing the wire manufacturing cost. The energy density, **efficiency** and the high discharge rate make SMES useful systems to incorporate into modern energy grids and green energy initiatives. The SMES system's uses can be categorized into three categories: power suppl...
23. ...tion: These still pose problems for superconducting applications but are improving over time. Advances have been made in the performance of superconducting materials. Furthermore, the reliability and **efficiency** of refrigeration systems has improved significantly. At the moment it takes four months to cool the coil from room temperature to its operating temperature. This also means that the SMES takes equall...
24. ...effect by Augustin-Jean Fresnel, in 1823, added to the evidence in favor of the wave theory of light. The phase shifts are used by Fresnel's invention, the Fresnel rhomb, to modify polarization. The **efficiency** of the total internal reflection is exploited by optical fibers (used in telecommunications cables and in image-forming fiberscopes), and by reflective prisms, such as image-erecting Porro/roof prism...
25. ...lation failure due to transient voltages with high-frequency components, such as caused in switching or by lightning. Transformer energy losses are dominated by winding and core losses. Transformers' **efficiency** tends to improve with increasing transformer capacity. The efficiency of typical distribution transformers is between about 98 and 99 percent. As transformer losses vary with load, it is often useful...
26. ...s, such as caused in switching or by lightning. Transformer energy losses are dominated by winding and core losses. Transformers' efficiency tends to improve with increasing transformer capacity. The **efficiency** of typical distribution transformers is between about 98 and 99 percent. As transformer losses vary with load, it is often useful to tabulate no-load loss, full-load loss, half-load loss, and so on....
27. ...from a long strip of silicon steel or permalloy wound into a coil, powdered iron, or ferrite. A strip construction ensures that the grain boundaries are optimally aligned, improving the transformer's **efficiency** by reducing the core's reluctance. The closed ring shape eliminates air gaps inherent in the construction of an E-I core. The cross-section of the ring is usually square or rectangular, but more expe...
28. ...termined that open-core devices were impracticable, as they were incapable of reliably regulating voltage. The Ganz factory had also in the autumn of 1884 made delivery of the world's first five high-**efficiency** AC transformers, the first of these units having been shipped on September 16, 1884. This first unit had been manufactured to the following specifications: 1,400 W, 40 Hz, 120:72 V, 11.6:19.4 A, rati...
29. ...uartz tube passes the 253.7 nm radiation but blocks the 185 nm wavelength. Such tubes have two or three times the UVC power of a regular fluorescent lamp tube. These low-pressure lamps have a typical **efficiency** of approximately 30–40%, meaning that for every 100 watts of electricity consumed by the lamp, they will produce approximately 30–40 watts of total UV output. They also emit bluish-white visible ligh...
30. ...y-xenon arc lamps, and metal-halide arc lamps. The excimer lamp, a UV source developed in the early 2000s, is seeing increasing use in scientific fields. It has the advantages of high-intensity, high **efficiency**, and operation at a variety of wavelength bands into the vacuum ultraviolet. Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) can be manufactured to emit radiation in the ultraviolet range. In 2019, following significan...
31. ...xenon Hall thrusters. , Hall-effect thrusters ranged in input power levels from 1.35 to 10 kilowatts and had exhaust velocities of 10–50 kilometers per second, with thrust of 40–600 millinewtons and **efficiency** in the range of 45–60 percent. The applications of Hall-effect thrusters include control of the orientation and position of orbiting satellites and use as a main propulsion engine for medium-size rob...
32. ...ectrons to be freed from the magnetic field, and they drift towards the anode. About 20–30% of the discharge current is an electron current, which does not produce thrust, thus limiting the energetic **efficiency** of the thruster; the other 70–80% of the current is in the ions. Because the majority of electrons are trapped in the Hall current, they have a long residence time inside the thruster and are able to...
33. ...of electrons are trapped in the Hall current, they have a long residence time inside the thruster and are able to ionize almost all of the xenon propellant, allowing mass use of 90–99%. The mass use **efficiency** of the thruster is thus around 90%, while the discharge current efficiency is around 70%, for a combined thruster efficiency of around 63% (= 90% × 70%). Modern Hall thrusters have achieved efficienc...
34. ...ime inside the thruster and are able to ionize almost all of the xenon propellant, allowing mass use of 90–99%. The mass use efficiency of the thruster is thus around 90%, while the discharge current **efficiency** is around 70%, for a combined thruster efficiency of around 63% (= 90% × 70%). Modern Hall thrusters have achieved efficiencies as high as 75% through advanced designs. Compared to chemical rockets,...
35. ...ost all of the xenon propellant, allowing mass use of 90–99%. The mass use efficiency of the thruster is thus around 90%, while the discharge current efficiency is around 70%, for a combined thruster **efficiency** of around 63% (= 90% × 70%). Modern Hall thrusters have achieved efficiencies as high as 75% through advanced designs. Compared to chemical rockets, the thrust is very small, on the order of 83 mN fo...
36. ...rison, the weight of a coin like the U.S. quarter or a 20-cent euro coin is approximately 60 mN. As with all forms of electrically powered spacecraft propulsion, thrust is limited by available power, **efficiency**, and specific impulse. However, Hall thrusters operate at the high specific impulses that are typical for electric propulsion. One particular advantage of Hall thrusters, as compared to a gridded ion...
37. ...potential of 12.1298 eV, while krypton has an ionization potential of 13.996 eV. This means that thrusters utilizing krypton need to expend a slightly higher energy per mole to ionize, which reduces **efficiency**. Additionally, krypton is a lighter ion, so the unit mass per ionization energy is further reduced compared to xenon. However, xenon can be more than ten times as expensive as krypton per kilogram, m...
38. ...ter. The primary reason for cylindrical Hall thrusters is that it is difficult to achieve a regular Hall thruster that operates over a broad envelope from c.1 kW down to c. 100 W while maintaining an **efficiency** of 45–55%. Sputtering erosion of discharge channel walls and pole pieces that protect the magnetic circuit causes failure of thruster operation. Therefore, annular and cylindrical Hall thrusters have...
39. ...ection of the acceleration. Ion thrusters in operation typically consume 1–7 kW of power, have exhaust velocities around 20–50 km/s ("I" 2000–5000s), and possess thrusts of 25–250 mN and a propulsive **efficiency** 65–80% though experimental versions have achieved , . The "Deep Space 1" spacecraft, powered by an ion thruster, changed velocity by while consuming less than of xenon. The "Dawn" spacecraft broke th...
40. ...hrust levels (the thrust of "Deep Space 1" is approximately equal to the weight of one sheet of paper) compared to conventional chemical rockets, but achieve high specific impulse, or propellant mass **efficiency**, by accelerating the exhaust to high speed. The power imparted to the exhaust increases with the square of exhaust velocity while thrust increase is linear. Conversely, chemical rockets provide high...
41. ...es) are theoretically able to use practically any material for propellant. However, in current tests the most practical propellant is argon, which is relatively abundant and inexpensive. Ion thruster **efficiency** is the kinetic energy of the exhaust jet emitted per second divided by the electrical power into the device. Overall system energy efficiency is determined by the propulsive efficiency, which depends...
42. ...hich is relatively abundant and inexpensive. Ion thruster efficiency is the kinetic energy of the exhaust jet emitted per second divided by the electrical power into the device. Overall system energy **efficiency** is determined by the propulsive efficiency, which depends on vehicle speed and exhaust speed. Some thrusters can vary exhaust speed in operation, but all can be designed with different exhaust speeds...
43. .... Ion thruster efficiency is the kinetic energy of the exhaust jet emitted per second divided by the electrical power into the device. Overall system energy efficiency is determined by the propulsive **efficiency**, which depends on vehicle speed and exhaust speed. Some thrusters can vary exhaust speed in operation, but all can be designed with different exhaust speeds. At the lower end of specific impulse, "I"...
44. ...s on vehicle speed and exhaust speed. Some thrusters can vary exhaust speed in operation, but all can be designed with different exhaust speeds. At the lower end of specific impulse, "I", the overall **efficiency** drops because ionization takes up a larger percentage energy and at the high end propulsive efficiency is reduced. Optimal efficiencies and exhaust velocities for any given mission can be calculated...
45. ...e designed with different exhaust speeds. At the lower end of specific impulse, "I", the overall efficiency drops because ionization takes up a larger percentage energy and at the high end propulsive **efficiency** is reduced. Optimal efficiencies and exhaust velocities for any given mission can be calculated to give minimum overall cost. Ion thrusters have many in-space propulsion applications. The best applic...
46. ...attery system allowing for 15 minutes pulses of thrust. The ISS orbits at a relatively low altitude and experiences fairly high levels of atmospheric drag, requiring periodic altitude boosts – a high-**efficiency** engine (high specific impulse) for station-keeping would be valuable; theoretically VASIMR reboosting could cut fuel cost from the current US$210 million annually to one-twentieth. VASIMR could in th...
47. ...er applications). However, energy can be stored inductively in superconducting coils. A 1 km long mass driver made of superconducting coils can accelerate a 20 kg vehicle to 10.5 km/s at a conversion **efficiency** of 80%, and average acceleration of 5,600 g. Earth-based mass drivers for propelling vehicles to orbit, such as the StarTram concept, would require considerable capital investment. The Earth's relati...
48. ...om a fixed position are much less likely to generate issues with respect to matters such as traffic control. Most serious mass-driver designs use superconducting coils to achieve reasonable energetic **efficiency** (often 50% to 90+%, depending on design). Equipment may include a superconducting bucket or aluminum coil as the payload. The coils of a mass driver can induce eddy currents in a payload's aluminum c...
49. ...eeded under the rocket equation, with too high a fraction of energy going into accelerating propellant not used yet. Higher exhaust velocity has both benefit and tradeoff, increasing propellant usage **efficiency** (more momentum per unit mass of propellant expelled) but decreasing thrust and the current rate of spacecraft acceleration if available input power is constant (less momentum per unit of energy given...
50. ...of energy given to propellant). Electric propulsion methods like mass drivers are systems where energy does not come from the propellant itself. (This contrasts with chemical rockets where propulsive **efficiency** varies with the ratio of exhaust velocity to vehicle velocity at the time, but near maximum obtainable specific impulse tends to be a design goal when corresponding to the most energy released from r...
51. ...MPS) that started with a coil formula_123=0.2 m and a magnetic field falloff rate of formula_2=1.52 with injected plasma creating an effective sail radius of formula_37=26 km and assumed a conversion **efficiency** that transferred a fraction of the solar wind momentum to the spacecraft. Simulation results indicated a significant increase in magnetosphere size with plasma injection as compared to the Magsail de...
52. ...duced via beta decay of tritium, which can be produced from deuterium, lithium, or boron. Even if a self-sustaining fusion reaction cannot be produced, it might be possible to use fusion to boost the **efficiency** of another propulsion system, such as a VASIMR engine. To sustain a fusion reaction, the plasma must be confined. The most widely studied configuration for terrestrial fusion is the tokamak, a form o...
53. ...l energy that must be added equals the change in Gibbs free energy of the reaction plus the losses in the system. The losses can (in theory) be arbitrarily close to zero, so the maximum thermodynamic **efficiency** equals the enthalpy change divided by the free energy change of the reaction. In most cases, the electric input is larger than the enthalpy change of the reaction, so some energy is released in the f...
54. ...ds such as ethylene. This technology is under research as a carbon-neutral route to organic compounds. Electrolysis of water produces hydrogen and oxygen in a ratio of 2 to 1 respectively. The energy **efficiency** of water electrolysis varies widely. The efficiency of an electrolyser is a measure of the enthalpy contained in the hydrogen (to undergo combustion with oxygen or some other later reaction), compare...
55. ...ch as a carbon-neutral route to organic compounds. Electrolysis of water produces hydrogen and oxygen in a ratio of 2 to 1 respectively. The energy efficiency of water electrolysis varies widely. The **efficiency** of an electrolyser is a measure of the enthalpy contained in the hydrogen (to undergo combustion with oxygen or some other later reaction), compared with the input electrical energy. Heat/enthalpy va...
56. ...hed in science and engineering texts, as 144 MJ/kg (40 kWh/kg). Note that fuel cells (not electrolysers) cannot use this full amount of heat/enthalpy, which has led to some confusion when calculating **efficiency** values for both types of technology. In the reaction, some energy is lost as heat. Some reports quote efficiencies between 50% and 70% for alkaline electrolysers (50 kWh/kg); however, higher practica...
57. ...0% and 70% for alkaline electrolysers (50 kWh/kg); however, higher practical efficiencies are available with the use of polymer electrolyte membrane electrolysis and catalytic technology, such as 95% **efficiency**. The National Renewable Energy Laboratory estimated in 2006 that 1 kg of hydrogen (roughly equivalent to 3 kg, or 4 liters, of petroleum in energy terms) could be produced by wind powered electrolysi...
58. ...it in alkaline water has been reported. The temperature is much lower than traditional iron production at 114 °C. The low temperatures also tend to correlate with higher current efficiencies, with an **efficiency** of 95% being reported. While these methods are promising, they struggle to be cost competitive because of the large economies of scale keeping the price of blast furnace iron low. A 2020 study invest...
59. ...distribution. Most North American transmission lines are high-voltage three-phase AC, although single phase AC is sometimes used in railway electrification systems. DC technology is used for greater **efficiency** over longer distances, typically hundreds of miles. High-voltage direct current (HVDC) technology is also used in submarine power cables (typically longer than 30 miles (50 km)), and in the interchan...
60. ...switches and transformers. The transmission network is usually administered on a regional basis by an entity such as a regional transmission organization or transmission system operator. Transmission **efficiency** is improved at higher voltage and lower current. The reduced current reduces heating losses. Joule's first law states that energy losses are proportional to the square of the current. Thus, reducing...
61. ...o 25 kV). Finally, at the point of use, the energy is transformed to end-user voltage (100 to 4160 volts). High-voltage power transmission allows for lesser resistive losses over long distances. This **efficiency** delivers a larger proportion of the generated power to the loads. In a simplified model, the grid delivers electricity from an ideal voltage source with voltage formula_3, delivering a power formula_...
62. ...to each of the other wires. Because it is an AC system, it allows the voltages to be easily stepped up using transformers to high voltage for transmission and back down for distribution, giving high **efficiency**. A three-wire three-phase circuit is usually more economical than an equivalent two-wire single-phase circuit at the same line-to-ground voltage because it uses less conductor material to transmit a...
63. ...m was displayed in 1891 in Germany at the International Electrotechnical Exhibition, where Dolivo-Dobrovolsky used the system to transmit electric power at the distance of 176 km (110 miles) with 75% **efficiency**. In 1891 he also created a three-phase transformer and short-circuited (squirrel-cage) induction motor. He designed the world's first three-phase hydroelectric power plant in 1891. Inventor Jonas Wen...
64. ...conductor material increases to 3:1 with an ungrounded three-phase and center-grounded single-phase system (or 2.25:1 if both use grounds with the same gauge as the conductors). That leads to higher **efficiency**, lower weight, and cleaner waveforms. Three-phase supplies have properties that make them desirable in electric power distribution systems: However, most loads are single-phase. In North America, sin...
65. ...nsformer must carry current for its respective phases as well as current for the third phase, therefore capacity is reduced to 87%. With one of three transformers missing and the remaining two at 87% **efficiency**, the capacity is 58% ( of 87%). Where a delta-fed system must be grounded for detection of stray current to ground or protection from surge voltages, a grounding transformer (usually a zigzag transfo...
66. ...neutral current to exceed the phase current. An important class of three-phase load is the electric motor. A three-phase induction motor has a simple design, inherently high starting torque and high **efficiency**. Such motors are applied in industry for many applications. A three-phase motor is more compact and less costly than a single-phase motor of the same voltage class and rating, and single-phase AC mot...
67. ...cuit is usually used to limit maximum primary tank current (which must be switched by the IGBTs) to a safe level. Performance of a DRSSTC can be comparable to a medium-power spark-gap Tesla coil, and **efficiency** (as measured by spark length versus input power) can be significantly greater than a spark-gap Tesla coil operating at the same input power. A large Tesla coil of more modern design often operates at...
68. ...rn design often operates at very high peak power levels, up to many megawatts (millions of watts, equivalent to thousands of horsepower). It is therefore adjusted and operated carefully, not only for **efficiency** and economy, but also for safety. If, due to improper tuning, the maximum voltage point occurs below the terminal, along the secondary coil, a discharge (spark) may break out and damage or destroy th...
69. ...25 kW. By 2005 progress at ASPL included full and efficient plasma production and acceleration of the plasma ions with the 50 kW, thrust VX-50. Published data on the 50 kW VX-50 showed the electrical **efficiency** to be 59% based on a 90% coupling efficiency and a 65% ion speed boosting efficiency. The 100 kilowatt VASIMR experiment was successfully running by 2007 and demonstrated efficient plasma production...
70. ...and efficient plasma production and acceleration of the plasma ions with the 50 kW, thrust VX-50. Published data on the 50 kW VX-50 showed the electrical efficiency to be 59% based on a 90% coupling **efficiency** and a 65% ion speed boosting efficiency. The 100 kilowatt VASIMR experiment was successfully running by 2007 and demonstrated efficient plasma production with an ionization cost below 100eV. VX-100 p...
71. ...eleration of the plasma ions with the 50 kW, thrust VX-50. Published data on the 50 kW VX-50 showed the electrical efficiency to be 59% based on a 90% coupling efficiency and a 65% ion speed boosting **efficiency**. The 100 kilowatt VASIMR experiment was successfully running by 2007 and demonstrated efficient plasma production with an ionization cost below 100eV. VX-100 plasma output tripled the prior record of...
72. ...007 and demonstrated efficient plasma production with an ionization cost below 100eV. VX-100 plasma output tripled the prior record of the VX-50. The VX-100 was expected to have an ion speed boosting **efficiency** of 80%, but could not achieve this efficiency due to losses from the conversion of DC electric current to radio frequency power and the auxiliary equipment for the superconducting magnet. In contrast...
73. ...on with an ionization cost below 100eV. VX-100 plasma output tripled the prior record of the VX-50. The VX-100 was expected to have an ion speed boosting efficiency of 80%, but could not achieve this **efficiency** due to losses from the conversion of DC electric current to radio frequency power and the auxiliary equipment for the superconducting magnet. In contrast, 2009 state-of-the-art, proven ion engine des...
74. ...equipment for the superconducting magnet. In contrast, 2009 state-of-the-art, proven ion engine designs such as NASA's High Power Electric Propulsion (HiPEP) operated at 80% total thruster/PPU energy **efficiency**. On 24 October 2008, the company announced in a press release that the helicon plasma generation component of the 200 kW VX-200 engine had reached operational status. The key enabling technology, sol...
75. ...n a press release that the helicon plasma generation component of the 200 kW VX-200 engine had reached operational status. The key enabling technology, solid-state DC-RF power-processing, reached 98% **efficiency**. The helicon discharge used 30 kW of radio waves to turn argon gas into plasma. The remaining 170 kW of power was allocated for acceleration of plasma in the second part of the engine, via ion cyclot...
76. ...he engine, via ion cyclotron resonance heating. Based on data from VX-100 testing, it was expected that, if room temperature superconductors are ever discovered, the VX-200 engine would have a system **efficiency** of 60–65% and a potential thrust level of 5 N. Optimal specific impulse appeared to be around 5,000 s using low cost argon propellant. One of the remaining untested issues was whether the hot plasma...
77. ...ic energy. Much of the remaining 40% is secondary ionizations from plasma crossing magnetic field lines and exhaust divergence. A significant portion of that 40% was waste heat (see energy conversion **efficiency**). Managing and rejecting that waste heat is critical. Between April and September 2009, 200 kW tests were performed on the VX-200 prototype with 2 tesla superconducting magnets that are powered separ...
78. ...heat is critical. Between April and September 2009, 200 kW tests were performed on the VX-200 prototype with 2 tesla superconducting magnets that are powered separately and not accounted for in any "**efficiency**" calculations. During November 2010, long duration, full power firing tests were performed, reaching steady state operation for 25 seconds and validating basic design characteristics. Results present...
79. ...firing tests were performed, reaching steady state operation for 25 seconds and validating basic design characteristics. Results presented in January 2011 confirmed that the design point for optimal **efficiency** on the VX-200 is 50 km/s exhaust velocity, or an "I" of 5000s. The 200 kW VX-200 had executed more than 10,000 engine firings with argon propellant at full power by 2013, demonstrating greater than 7...
80. ...00 is 50 km/s exhaust velocity, or an "I" of 5000s. The 200 kW VX-200 had executed more than 10,000 engine firings with argon propellant at full power by 2013, demonstrating greater than 70% thruster **efficiency** relative to RF power input. In March 2015, Ad Astra announced a $10 million award from NASA to advance the technology readiness of the next version of the VASIMR engine, the VX-200SS to meet the need...
81. ...ew generation radio-frequency (RF) Power Processing Unit (PPU) for the VASIMR engine, built by Aethera Technologies Ltd. of Canada. Ad Astra declared a power of 120 kW and >97% electrical-to-RF power **efficiency**, and that, at 52 kg, the new RF PPU is about 10x lighter than the PPUs of competing electric thrusters (power-to-weight ratio: 2.31 kW/kg) In July 2021, Ad Astra announced the completion of a record-...
82. ...on-break unit using stored energy to provide continuous power within specified voltage and frequency tolerances. Many uses and implementations of auxiliary power are experimented with to increase its **efficiency**. One such experimentation was to find a better way to operate a diesel engine with fuel cell based auxiliary power units.  The method of which is to separate hydrogen-rich gas from the diesel fuel to...
83. ...reliable enough to start up quickly, and run for extended periods of time, (i.e. 48 hours or more) with sufficient fuel. As previously affirmed, auxiliary power units are commonly used to improve the **efficiency** of electrical system. The use of auxiliary power units for range extended electric automobiles has been shown to improve the control of energy flow and distribution throughout the system, improving i...
84. ...cal system. The use of auxiliary power units for range extended electric automobiles has been shown to improve the control of energy flow and distribution throughout the system, improving its overall **efficiency**. For closed systems with extreme power consumption such as tankers and other vessels at sea, the use and quality of auxiliary power systems have a great impact on the efficiency of the overall system...
85. ...improving its overall efficiency. For closed systems with extreme power consumption such as tankers and other vessels at sea, the use and quality of auxiliary power systems have a great impact on the **efficiency** of the overall system.  The different uses of auxiliary power for an array of ships and ship activities and how these different power schemes change the overall efficiency and/emissions of the ship's...
86. ...have a great impact on the efficiency of the overall system.  The different uses of auxiliary power for an array of ships and ship activities and how these different power schemes change the overall **efficiency** and/emissions of the ship's system. Studies have indicated that while ships travel between ports within the same bay, total ship exhaust emissions are due to primarily their auxiliary boiler and auxi...
87. ...late, to receive the displacement current from the antenna and return it to the ground side of the transmitter's feedline, so it is preferably located directly under the antenna. In receivers and low **efficiency** / low power transmitters, the ground connection can be as simple as one or several metal rods or stakes driven into the soil, or an electrical connection to a building's metal water piping which exte...
88. ...together to the ground side of the transmitter's feedline at a terminal next to the base of the antenna called a radial ground system. The transmitter power lost in the ground resistance, and so the **efficiency** of the antenna, depends on the soil conductivity. This varies widely; marshy ground or ponds, particularly salt water, provide the lowest resistance ground, while dry rocky or sandy soil are the high...
89. ...electrical NEP. If instead it refers to the signal power incident on the detector system, it is called the optical NEP. The optical NEP is equal to the electrical NEP divided by the optical coupling **efficiency** of the detector system.  Noise temperature In electronics, noise temperature is one way of expressing the level of available noise power introduced by a component or source. The power spectral densit...
90. ...a_31 has been quadrupled, in addition to the (smaller) contribution due to the attenuator itself formula_32 (usually room temperature if the attenuator is composed of resistors). An antenna with poor **efficiency** is an example of this principle, where formula_33 would represent the antenna's efficiency. Polarization (waves) ' (also ') is a property of transverse waves which specifies the geometrical orientati...
91. ...tself formula_32 (usually room temperature if the attenuator is composed of resistors). An antenna with poor efficiency is an example of this principle, where formula_33 would represent the antenna's **efficiency**. Polarization (waves) ' (also ') is a property of transverse waves which specifies the geometrical orientation of the oscillations. In a transverse wave, the direction of the oscillation is perpendic...
92. ...d energy, electrical utilities will usually charge a higher cost to industrial or commercial customers with a low power factor. Power-factor correction increases the power factor of a load, improving **efficiency** for the distribution system to which it is attached. Linear loads with a low power factor (such as induction motors) can be corrected with a passive network of capacitors or inductors. Non-linear loa...
93. ...ments near an electrical load will reduce the apparent power demand on the supply system. Power factor correction may be applied by an electric power transmission utility to improve the stability and **efficiency** of the network. Individual electrical customers who are charged by their utility for low power factor may install correction equipment to increase their power factor to reduce costs. Power factor cor...
94. ...rmonics in a transformer also result in larger eddy currents in the magnetic core of the transformer. Eddy current losses generally increase as the square of the frequency, lowering the transformer's **efficiency**, dissipating additional heat, and reducing its service life. Negative-sequence harmonics (5th, 11th, 17th, etc.) combine 120 degrees out of phase, similarly to the fundamental harmonic but in a rever...
95. ...ts to commercial customers who have a power factor below some limit, which is typically 0.9 to 0.95. Engineers are often interested in the power factor of a load as one of the factors that affect the **efficiency** of power transmission. With the rising cost of energy and concerns over the efficient delivery of power, active PFC has become more common in consumer electronics. Current Energy Star guidelines for...
96. ...r increasing reliability. These hybrid rotary UPS designs do not have official designations, although one name used by UTL is "double conversion on demand". This style of UPS is targeted towards high-**efficiency** applications while still maintaining the features and protection level offered by double conversion. A hybrid (double conversion on demand) UPS operates as an off-line/standby UPS when power conditio...
97. ...by double conversion. A hybrid (double conversion on demand) UPS operates as an off-line/standby UPS when power conditions are within a certain preset window. This allows the UPS to achieve very high **efficiency** ratings. When the power conditions fluctuate outside of the predefined windows, the UPS switches to online/double-conversion operation. In double-conversion mode the UPS can adjust for voltage variat...
98. ...if the UPS's battery voltage is matched with the voltage the device needs, the device's power supply will not be needed either. Since one or more power conversion steps are eliminated, this increases **efficiency** and run time. Many systems used in telecommunications use an extra-low voltage "common battery" 48 V DC power, because it has less restrictive safety regulations, such as being installed in conduit a...
99. ...owntime if the batteries can be hot-swapped, which is usually the case for larger units. Newer rotary units use technologies such as magnetic bearings and air-evacuated enclosures to increase standby **efficiency** and reduce maintenance to very low levels. Typically, the high-mass flywheel is used in conjunction with a motor-generator system. These units can be configured as: In case No. 3, the motor generator...
100. ...ich in harmonics. These harmonics can cause interference with other electronic devices including radio communication and some devices (e.g. inductive loads such as AC motors) may perform with reduced **efficiency** or not at all. More sophisticated (and expensive) UPS units can produce nearly pure sinusoidal AC power. A problem in the combination of a double-conversion UPS and a generator is the voltage distort...
101. ...Regulated Lead Acid (VRLA), Flooded Cell or VLA batteries, and lithium-ion batteries. The run-time for a battery-operated UPS depends on the type and size of batteries and rate of discharge, and the **efficiency** of the inverter. The total capacity of a lead–acid battery is a function of the rate at which it is discharged, which is described as Peukert's law. Manufacturers supply run-time rating in minutes fo...
102. ...h is described as Peukert's law. Manufacturers supply run-time rating in minutes for packaged UPS systems. Larger systems (such as for data centers) require detailed calculation of the load, inverter **efficiency**, and battery characteristics to ensure the required endurance is attained. When a lead–acid battery is charged or discharged, this initially affects only the reacting chemicals, which are at the inte...
103. ...ough air (see toroidal cores). The new transformers were 3.4 times more efficient than the open-core bipolar devices of Gaulard and Gibbs. The Ganz factory in 1884 shipped the world's first five high-**efficiency** AC transformers. This first unit had been manufactured to the following specifications: 1,400 W, 40 Hz, 120:72 V, 11.6:19.4 A, ratio 1.67:1, one-phase, shell form. The ZBD patents included two other...
104. ...em operates at 300-400V (depending on the vehicle), and provides the power for the traction motors. Increasing the voltage for the traction motors reduces the current flowing through them, increasing **efficiency**. Telephone exchange communication equipment uses standard −48 V DC power supply. The negative polarity is achieved by grounding the positive terminal of power supply system and the battery bank. This...
105. ...ity to rapidly switch current (fault current limiters) outweighs the added cost. Longer-term as conductor price falls HTS systems should be competitive in a much wider range of applications on energy **efficiency** grounds alone. (For a relatively technical and US-centric view of state of play of HTS technology in power systems and the development status of Generation 2 conductor see "Superconductivity for Elec...
106. ...conversion was developed at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) in the 1980s as a method to maintain a voltage directly using fusion reaction products. This has demonstrated energy capture **efficiency** of 48 percent. Plasma is an ionized gas that conducts electricity. In bulk, it is modeled using magnetohydrodynamics, which is a combination of the Navier–Stokes equations governing fluids and Maxwel...
107. ...Assessment of barrier performance represents an additional challenge. Classical coated membranes gas permeation continues to be the most reliable method to determine hydrogen permeation barrier (HPB) **efficiency**. In 2021, in response to increasing numbers of designs for fusion power reactors for 2040, the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority published the UK Fusion Materials Roadmap 2021–2040, focusing on...
108. ...silicon carbide (SiC) have similar issues like graphite. Tritium retention in silicon carbide plasma-facing components is approximately 1.5-2 times higher than in graphite, resulting in reduced fuel **efficiency** and heightened safety risks in fusion reactors. SiC tends to trap more tritium, limiting its availability for fusion and increasing the risk of hazardous accumulation, complicating tritium management...
109. ...high-energy electrons accelerated by a strong electric field (as with the phosphors in electroluminescent displays). It has been recently shown that as a solar cell improves its light-to-electricity **efficiency** (improved open-circuit voltage), it will also improve its electricity-to-light (EL) efficiency. Electroluminescent technologies have low power consumption compared to competing lighting technologies,...
110. ...luminescent displays). It has been recently shown that as a solar cell improves its light-to-electricity efficiency (improved open-circuit voltage), it will also improve its electricity-to-light (EL) **efficiency**. Electroluminescent technologies have low power consumption compared to competing lighting technologies, such as neon or fluorescent lamps. This, together with the thinness of the material, has made...
111. ...of multiferroics. Spintronics fundamentally differs from traditional electronics in that, in addition to charge state, electron spins are used as a further degree of freedom, with implications in the **efficiency** of data storage and transfer. Spintronic systems are most often realised in dilute magnetic semiconductors (DMS) and Heusler alloys and are of particular interest in the field of quantum computing an...
112. ...e. Starting from the schematic diagram the component pin pads were laid out on the mylar and then traces were routed to connect the pads. Rub-on dry transfers of common component footprints increased **efficiency**. Traces were made with self-adhesive tape. Pre-printed non-reproducing grids on the mylar assisted in layout. The finished photomask was photolithographically reproduced onto a photoresist coating on...
113. ...them as a generator and the other as motor. The drum rotor was introduced by Friedrich von Hefner-Alteneck of Siemens & Halske to replace Pacinotti's ring armature in 1872, thus improving the machine **efficiency**. The laminated rotor was introduced by Siemens & Halske the following year, achieving reduced iron losses and increased induced voltages. In 1880, Jonas Wenström provided the rotor with slots for hou...
114. ...iemens & Halske the following year, achieving reduced iron losses and increased induced voltages. In 1880, Jonas Wenström provided the rotor with slots for housing the winding, further increasing the **efficiency**. In 1886, Frank Julian Sprague invented the first practical DC motor, a non-sparking device that maintained relatively constant speed under variable loads. Other Sprague electric inventions about thi...
115. ...it became popularly known as the "L". Sprague's motor and related inventions led to an explosion of interest and use in electric motors for industry. The development of electric motors of acceptable **efficiency** was delayed for several decades by failure to recognize the extreme importance of an air gap between the rotor and stator. Efficient designs have a comparatively small air gap. The St. Louis motor, l...
116. ...e shafts, belts, compressed air or hydraulic pressure. Instead, every machine could be equipped with its own power source, providing easy control at the point of use, and improving power transmission **efficiency**. Electric motors applied in agriculture eliminated human and animal muscle power from such tasks as handling grain or pumping water. Household uses (like in washing machines, dishwashers, fans, air c...
117. ...xcessive sparking. (Small brushes are desirable for their lower cost.) Stiffer brush springs can be used to make brushes of a given mass work at a higher speed, despite greater friction losses (lower **efficiency**) and accelerated brush and commutator wear. Therefore, DC motor brush design entails a trade-off between output power, speed, and efficiency/wear. DC machines are defined as follows: The five types o...
118. ...at a higher speed, despite greater friction losses (lower efficiency) and accelerated brush and commutator wear. Therefore, DC motor brush design entails a trade-off between output power, speed, and **efficiency**/wear. DC machines are defined as follows: The five types of brushed DC motor are: A permanent magnet (PM) motor does not have a field winding on the stator frame, relying instead on PMs to provide th...
119. ...t applications. Universal motors formed the basis of the traditional railway traction motor in electric railways. In this application, using AC power on a motor designed to run on DC would experience **efficiency** losses due to eddy current heating of their magnetic components, particularly the motor field pole-pieces that, for DC, would have used solid (un-laminated) iron. They are now rarely used. An advanta...
120. ...r to slow down until the load and motor torque are again equal. Operated in this manner, the slip losses are dissipated in the secondary resistors and can be significant. The speed regulation and net **efficiency** is poor. A torque motor can operate indefinitely while stalled, that is, with the rotor blocked from turning, without incurring damage. In this mode of operation, the motor applies a steady torque to...
121. ...used by changing attraction between the iron and the magnets). Parasitic eddy currents cannot form in the rotor as it is totally ironless, although iron rotors are laminated. This can greatly improve **efficiency**, but variable-speed controllers must use a higher switching rate (>40 kHz) or DC because of decreased electromagnetic induction. These motors were invented to drive the capstan(s) of magnetic tape dr...
122. ...losses, particularly where cooling fans are present, also occur. Losses also occur in commutation, mechanical commutators spark; electronic commutators and also dissipate heat. To calculate a motor's **efficiency**, the mechanical output power is divided by the electrical input power: where formula_15 is energy conversion efficiency, formula_16 is electrical input power, and formula_17 is mechanical output powe...
123. ...s spark; electronic commutators and also dissipate heat. To calculate a motor's efficiency, the mechanical output power is divided by the electrical input power: where formula_15 is energy conversion **efficiency**, formula_16 is electrical input power, and formula_17 is mechanical output power: where formula_20 is input voltage, formula_1 is input current, formula_7 is output torque, and formula_23 is output a...
124. ...power: where formula_20 is input voltage, formula_1 is input current, formula_7 is output torque, and formula_23 is output angular velocity. It is possible to derive analytically the point of maximum **efficiency**. It is typically at less than 1/2 the stall torque. Various national regulatory authorities have enacted legislation to encourage the manufacture and use of higher-efficiency motors. Electric motors...
125. ...lly the point of maximum efficiency. It is typically at less than 1/2 the stall torque. Various national regulatory authorities have enacted legislation to encourage the manufacture and use of higher-**efficiency** motors. Electric motors have efficiencies ranging from around 15%-20% for shaded pole motors, up to 98% for permanent magnet motors, with efficiency also dependent on load. Peak efficiency is usually...
126. ...ion to encourage the manufacture and use of higher-efficiency motors. Electric motors have efficiencies ranging from around 15%-20% for shaded pole motors, up to 98% for permanent magnet motors, with **efficiency** also dependent on load. Peak efficiency is usually at 75% of the rated load. So (as an example) a 10 HP motor is most efficient when driving a load that requires 7.5 HP. Efficiency also depends on mo...
127. ...of higher-efficiency motors. Electric motors have efficiencies ranging from around 15%-20% for shaded pole motors, up to 98% for permanent magnet motors, with efficiency also dependent on load. Peak **efficiency** is usually at 75% of the rated load. So (as an example) a 10 HP motor is most efficient when driving a load that requires 7.5 HP. Efficiency also depends on motor size; larger motors tend to be more...
128. ...agnet motors, with efficiency also dependent on load. Peak efficiency is usually at 75% of the rated load. So (as an example) a 10 HP motor is most efficient when driving a load that requires 7.5 HP. **Efficiency** also depends on motor size; larger motors tend to be more efficient. Some motors can not operate continually for more than a specified period of time (e.g. for more than an hour per run) Eric Laithwa...
129. ...blished the maximum power (transfer) theorem around 1840; it is also referred to as "Jacobi's law". The theorem results in maximum "power" transfer from the power source to the load, but not maximum "**efficiency**" of useful power out of total power consumed. If the load resistance is made larger than the source resistance, then efficiency increases (since a higher percentage of the source power is transferred...
130. ...um "power" transfer from the power source to the load, but not maximum "efficiency" of useful power out of total power consumed. If the load resistance is made larger than the source resistance, then **efficiency** increases (since a higher percentage of the source power is transferred to the load), but the "magnitude" of the load power decreases (since the total circuit resistance increases). If the load resis...
131. ...er is transferred to the load), but the "magnitude" of the load power decreases (since the total circuit resistance increases). If the load resistance is made smaller than the source resistance, then **efficiency** decreases (since most of the power ends up being dissipated in the source). Although the total power dissipated increases (due to a lower total resistance), the amount dissipated in the load decrease...
132. ...to the power delivered to the motor when the impedances were matched.  In 1880 this assumption was shown to be false by either Edison or his colleague Francis Robbins Upton, who realized that maximum **efficiency** was not the same as maximum power transfer.  To achieve maximum efficiency, the resistance of the source (whether a battery or a dynamo) could be (or should be) made as close to zero as possible. Usi...
133. ...880 this assumption was shown to be false by either Edison or his colleague Francis Robbins Upton, who realized that maximum efficiency was not the same as maximum power transfer.  To achieve maximum **efficiency**, the resistance of the source (whether a battery or a dynamo) could be (or should be) made as close to zero as possible. Using this new understanding, they obtained an efficiency of about 90%, and pr...
134. ...To achieve maximum efficiency, the resistance of the source (whether a battery or a dynamo) could be (or should be) made as close to zero as possible. Using this new understanding, they obtained an **efficiency** of about 90%, and proved that the electric motor was a practical alternative to the heat engine. The efficiency is the ratio of the power dissipated by the load resistance to the total power dissipat...
135. ...d be) made as close to zero as possible. Using this new understanding, they obtained an efficiency of about 90%, and proved that the electric motor was a practical alternative to the heat engine. The **efficiency** is the ratio of the power dissipated by the load resistance to the total power dissipated by the circuit (which includes the voltage source's resistance of as well as ): formula_1 Consider three part...
136. ...actice the termination of the avalanche is improved by the use of "quenching" techniques (see later). Pressure of the fill gas is important in the generation of avalanches. Too low a pressure and the **efficiency** of interaction with incident radiation is reduced. Too high a pressure, and the “mean free path” for collisions between accelerated electrons and the fill gas is too small, and the electrons cannot g...
137. ...coating of the electrodes with polymerization products, before the gas itself can be depleted; simple gas refill won't help, washing the electrodes to remove the deposits is necessary. Low ionization **efficiency** is sometimes deliberately sought; mixtures of low pressure hydrogen or helium with organic quenchers are used in some cosmic rays experiments, to detect heavily ionizing muons and electrons. Argon, k...
138. ...n" where the gradient flattens; this is the Geiger plateau. This is shown in more detail in the accompanying Geiger Plateau Curve diagram. If the tube voltage is progressively increased from zero the **efficiency** of detection will rise until the most energetic radiation starts to produce pulses which can be detected by the electronics. This is the "starting voltage". Increasing the voltage still further resul...
139. ...stics of the specific tube (manufacturer, size, gas type, etc.) the voltage range of the plateau will vary. The slope is usually expressed as percentage change of counts per 100 V. To prevent overall **efficiency** changes due to variation of tube voltage, a regulated voltage supply is used, and it is normal practice to operate in the middle of the plateau to reduce the effect of any voltage variations. The ide...
140. ...se count and noise. The electronic design of Geiger–Müller counters must be able to detect this situation and give an alarm; it is normally done by setting a threshold for excessive tube current. The **efficiency** of detection of a G–M tube varies with the type of incident radiation. Tubes with thin end windows have very high efficiencies (can be nearly 100%) for high energy beta, though this drops off as the...
141. ...sible to the source of radiation. The attenuation of the window adds to the attenuation of air, so the window should have a density as low as 1.5 to 2.0 mg/cm to give an acceptable level of detection **efficiency**. The article on stopping power explains in more detail the ranges for particles types of various energies. The counting efficiency of photon radiation (gamma and X-rays above 25 keV) depends on the e...
142. ...as low as 1.5 to 2.0 mg/cm to give an acceptable level of detection efficiency. The article on stopping power explains in more detail the ranges for particles types of various energies. The counting **efficiency** of photon radiation (gamma and X-rays above 25 keV) depends on the efficiency of radiation interaction in the tube wall, which increases with the atomic number of the wall material. Chromium iron is...
143. ...y. The article on stopping power explains in more detail the ranges for particles types of various energies. The counting efficiency of photon radiation (gamma and X-rays above 25 keV) depends on the **efficiency** of radiation interaction in the tube wall, which increases with the atomic number of the wall material. Chromium iron is a commonly used material, which gives an efficiency of about 1% over a wide ra...
144. ...ove 25 keV) depends on the efficiency of radiation interaction in the tube wall, which increases with the atomic number of the wall material. Chromium iron is a commonly used material, which gives an **efficiency** of about 1% over a wide range of energies. If a G–M tube is to be used for gamma or X-ray dosimetry measurements, the energy of incident radiation, which affects the ionizing effect, must be taken in...
145. ...mics, by exploiting certain quantum mechanical properties. There have been a growing number of papers showing that in some instances the classical laws of thermodynamics, such as limits on the Carnot **efficiency**, can be violated by exploiting negative entropy of quantum fluctuations. Despite efforts to reconcile quantum mechanics and thermodynamics over the years, their compatibility is still an open fundame...
146. ...rber, sized 1.3 mm in the poloidal direction and 3.8 mm toroidally, mounted on a ceramic (silicon nitride Si3N4) substrate. The inclusion of a 50 nm carbon layer is strategic, enhancing the detection **efficiency** for low-energy photons. These detectors are notably attuned to impurity line radiation, covering a spectrum from the very ultraviolet (VUV) to soft x-rays (SXR). Given their resilience and innovative...
147. ...pation properties. Electromagnets, vacuum tubes, cathode-ray tubes, and magnetrons in microwave ovens use copper, as do waveguides for microwave radiation. Copper's superior conductivity enhances the **efficiency** of electrical motors. This is important because motors and motor-driven systems account for 43–46% of all global electricity consumption and 69% of all electricity used by industry. Increasing the ma...
148. ...and motor-driven systems account for 43–46% of all global electricity consumption and 69% of all electricity used by industry. Increasing the mass and cross section of copper in a coil increases the **efficiency** of the motor. Copper motor rotors, a new technology designed for motor applications where energy savings are prime design objectives, are enabling general-purpose induction motors to meet and exceed...
149. ...for motor applications where energy savings are prime design objectives, are enabling general-purpose induction motors to meet and exceed National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) premium **efficiency** standards. Copper has been used since ancient times as a durable, corrosion resistant, and weatherproof architectural material. Roofs, flashings, rain gutters, downspouts, domes, spires, vaults, and...
150. ...h in rabbits has been reported to be at least 3 ppm in the diet. However, higher concentrations of copper (100 ppm, 200 ppm, or 500 ppm) in the diet of rabbits may favorably influence feed conversion **efficiency**, growth rates, and carcass dressing percentages. Chronic copper toxicity does not normally occur in humans because of transport systems that regulate absorption and excretion. Autosomal recessive mut...
151. ...s scale up in size primarily through the addition of fusion fuel for the secondary. Of the two, the fusion fuel is much less expensive and gives off far fewer radioactive products, so from a cost and **efficiency** standpoint, larger bombs are much more efficient. However, using such large bombs for spacecraft propulsion demands much larger structures able to handle the stress. There is a tradeoff between the t...
152. ...uired for triggering one thermonuclear explosion were calculated in 2005 to be 10, which means microgram amounts of antihydrogen. Tuning of the performance of a space vehicle is also possible. Rocket **efficiency** is strongly related to the mass of the working mass used, which in this case is the nuclear fuel. The energy released by a given mass of fusion fuel is several times larger than that released by the...
153. ...periods of high thrust, such as crewed interplanetary missions, pure microfission might be preferred because it reduces the number of fuel elements needed. For missions with longer periods of higher **efficiency** but with lower thrust, such as outer-planet probes, a combination of microfission and fusion might be preferred because it would reduce the total fuel mass. The concept was invented at Pennsylvania S...
154. ...sure. Unlike Moore's lamps, Hewitt's were manufactured in standardized sizes and operated at low voltages. The mercury-vapor lamp was superior to the incandescent lamps of the time in terms of energy **efficiency**, but the blue-green light it produced limited its applications. It was, however, used for photography and some industrial processes. Mercury vapor lamps continued to be developed at a slow pace, espe...
155. ...not the first use of fluorescent coatings; Becquerel had earlier used the idea and Edison used calcium tungstate for his unsuccessful lamp. Other efforts had been mounted, but all were plagued by low **efficiency** and various technical problems. Of particular importance was the invention in 1927 of a low-voltage “metal vapor lamp” by Friedrich Meyer, Hans-Joachim Spanner, and Edmund Germer, who were employees...
156. ...use the coating to the lamp tube. Careful control of the grain size of the suspended phosphors is necessary; large grains lead to weak coatings, and small particles lead to poor light maintenance and **efficiency**. Most phosphors perform best with a particle size around 10 micrometers. The coating must be thick enough to capture all the ultraviolet light produced by the mercury arc, but not so thick that the p...
157. ...ncy ballasts have been used in general lighting fixtures with either rapid start or pre-heat lamps. These ballasts convert the incoming power to an output frequency in excess of . This increases lamp **efficiency**. These ballasts operate with voltages that can be almost 600 volts, requiring some consideration in housing design, and can cause a minor limitation in the length of the wire leads from the ballast t...
158. ...spark that is strong for a clean burn. A spark which intermittently fails to ignite the fuel-air mixture may not be noticeable directly, but will show up as a reduction in the engine's power and fuel **efficiency**. Gap adjustment is not recommended for iridium and platinum spark plugs, because there is a risk of damaging a metal disk welded to the electrode.  Over the years variations on the basic spark plug d...
159. ...ce. The operating temperature of a spark plug is the actual physical temperature at the tip of the spark plug within the running engine, normally between . This is important because it determines the **efficiency** of plug self-cleaning and is determined by a number of factors, but primarily the actual temperature within the combustion chamber. There is no direct relationship between the actual operating temper...
160. ...Honda Insight has indexed spark plugs from factory, with four different part numbers available corresponding to the different degrees of indexing to achieve most efficient combustion and maximal fuel **efficiency**. Earth's outer core Earth's outer core is a fluid layer about thick, composed of mostly iron and nickel that lies above Earth's solid inner core and below its mantle. The outer core begins approximat...
161. ...the movement of the pistons in an internal combustion engine like that found in a gasoline powered automobile. One group calculated that a pyroelectric in an Ericsson cycle could reach 50% of Carnot **efficiency**, while a different study found a material that could, in theory, reach 84-92% of Carnot efficiency (these efficiency values are for the pyroelectric itself, ignoring losses from heating and cooling t...
162. ...automobile. One group calculated that a pyroelectric in an Ericsson cycle could reach 50% of Carnot efficiency, while a different study found a material that could, in theory, reach 84-92% of Carnot **efficiency** (these efficiency values are for the pyroelectric itself, ignoring losses from heating and cooling the substrate, other heat-transfer losses, and all other losses elsewhere in the system). Possible a...
163. ...roup calculated that a pyroelectric in an Ericsson cycle could reach 50% of Carnot efficiency, while a different study found a material that could, in theory, reach 84-92% of Carnot efficiency (these **efficiency** values are for the pyroelectric itself, ignoring losses from heating and cooling the substrate, other heat-transfer losses, and all other losses elsewhere in the system). Possible advantages of pyroe...
164. ...ns, the action potential provokes another in the membrane immediately adjacent, and moves continuously down the axon like a wave. Myelin has two important advantages: fast conduction speed and energy **efficiency**. For axons larger than a minimum diameter (roughly 1 micrometre), myelination increases the conduction velocity of an action potential, typically tenfold. Conversely, for a given conduction velocity,...
165. ...s backlights for computer and television liquid-crystal displays. CCFL lifespans vary in LCD televisions depending on transient voltage surges and temperature levels in usage environments. Due to its **efficiency**, CCFL technology has expanded into room lighting. Costs are similar to those of traditional fluorescent lighting, but with several advantages: it has a long life, the light emitted is , bulbs turn on...
166. ...zed heating of the fine tungsten-wire cathodes causes them to operate in the same mode as hot-cathode lamps.) This aspect is problematic in the case of backlights used for LCD TV displays. New energy-**efficiency** regulations being proposed in many countries will require variable backlighting; variable backlighting also improves the perceived contrast range, which is desirable for LCD TV sets. However, CCFLs a...
167. ...nd because running the cathode at too low a temperature drastically shortens the life of the lamps. Much research is being directed to this problem, but high-end manufacturers are now turning to high-**efficiency** white LEDs as a better solution. Isotropic etching In semiconductor manufacturing, isotropic etching is a method commonly used to remove material from a substrate via a chemical process using an etch...
168. ...section of , requires a power consumption, at or cruising speed, given by the following formula: formula_1 formula_2 Power consumption compares favourably with other high-speed rail systems. With an **efficiency** of 0.85, the power required is about 4.2 MW. Energy consumption for levitation and guidance purposes equates to approximately 1.7 kW/t. As the propulsion system is also capable of functioning in reve...
169. ...nt frequencies were used, with each electric provider setting their own, so that no single one prevailed. The most common frequency was  Hz. The rotation speed of induction generators and motors, the **efficiency** of transformers, and flickering of carbon arc lamps all played a role in frequency setting. Around 1893 the Westinghouse Electric Company in the United States and AEG in Germany decided to standardiz...
170. ...in kilowatt-hours per year. This is used with loads or output that vary during the year but whose annual totals are similar from one year to the next. For example, it is useful to compare the energy **efficiency** of household appliances whose power consumption varies with time or the season of the year. Another use is to measure the energy produced by a distributed power source. One kilowatt-hour per year equ...
171. ...MHD interaction in a limited volume, preserving stealth characteristics. External field systems on the contrary have the ability to act on a very large expanse of surrounding water volume with higher **efficiency** and the ability to decrease drag, increasing the efficiency even further. MHD has no moving parts, which means that a good design might be silent, reliable, and efficient. Additionally, the MHD desig...
172. ...acteristics. External field systems on the contrary have the ability to act on a very large expanse of surrounding water volume with higher efficiency and the ability to decrease drag, increasing the **efficiency** even further. MHD has no moving parts, which means that a good design might be silent, reliable, and efficient. Additionally, the MHD design eliminates many of the wear and friction pieces of the dri...
173. .... Other mechanisms are convection and conduction. Thermal radiation is characteristically different from conduction and convection in that it does not require a medium and, in fact it reaches maximum **efficiency** in a vacuum. Thermal radiation is a type of electromagnetic radiation which is often modeled by the propagation of waves. These waves have the standard wave properties of frequency, formula_1 and wav...
174. ...ators at all – instead, they are actually convectors, and painting them matt black would make little difference to their efficacy. Acrylic and urethane based white paints have 93% blackbody radiation **efficiency** at room temperature (meaning the term "black body" does not always correspond to the visually perceived color of an object). These materials that do not follow the "black color = high emissivity/abso...
175. ...This infrared light does not help a person see, but still transfers heat to the environment, making incandescent lights relatively inefficient as a light source. If the filament could be made hotter, **efficiency** would increase; however, there are currently no materials able to withstand such temperatures which would be appropriate for use in lamps. More efficient light sources, such as fluorescent lamps and...
176. ...ies the warm surface out of the Sun's view (the YORP effect). Nanostructures with spectrally selective thermal emittance properties offer numerous technological applications for energy generation and **efficiency**, e.g., for daytime radiative cooling of photovoltaic cells and buildings. These applications require high emittance in the frequency range corresponding to the atmospheric transparency window in 8 to...
177. ...f collector emitting work function from 1.5 eV to 1.0–0.7 eV. Due to long-lived nature of Rydberg matter this low work function remains low which essentially increases the low-temperature converter's **efficiency**. Photon-enhanced thermionic emission (PETE) is a process developed by scientists at Stanford University that harnesses both the light and heat of the sun to generate electricity and increases the eff...
178. ...ncy. Photon-enhanced thermionic emission (PETE) is a process developed by scientists at Stanford University that harnesses both the light and heat of the sun to generate electricity and increases the **efficiency** of solar power production by more than twice the current levels. The device developed for the process reaches peak efficiency above 200 °C, while most silicon solar cells become inert after reaching...
179. ...h the light and heat of the sun to generate electricity and increases the efficiency of solar power production by more than twice the current levels. The device developed for the process reaches peak **efficiency** above 200 °C, while most silicon solar cells become inert after reaching 100 °C. Such devices work best in parabolic dish collectors, which reach temperatures up to 800 °C. Although the team used a g...
180. ...ors, which reach temperatures up to 800 °C. Although the team used a gallium nitride semiconductor in its proof-of-concept device, it claims that the use of gallium arsenide can increase the device's **efficiency** to 55–60 percent, nearly triple that of existing systems, and 12–17 percent more than existing 43 percent multi-junction solar cells. Ferrimagnetism A ferrimagnetic material is a material that has po...
181. ...and developed a rapid-fire railgun launcher called the Cannon-Caliber Electromagnetic Gun. The launcher prototype was later tested at the U.S. Army Research Laboratory, where it demonstrated a breech **efficiency** over 50 percent. In 2010, the United States Navy tested a BAE Systems-designed compact-sized railgun for ship emplacement that accelerated a 3.2 kg (7 pound) projectile to hypersonic velocities of ap...
182. ...mage to the rail surfaces and the insulator surfaces. This limited some early research railguns to one shot per service interval. The inductance and resistance of the rails and power supply limit the **efficiency** of a railgun design. Currently different rail shapes and railgun configurations are being tested, most notably by the U.S. Navy (Naval Research Laboratory), the Institute for Advanced Technology at t...
183. ...witching regulator" uses an active device that switches on and off to maintain an average value of output. Because the regulated voltage of a linear regulator must always be lower than input voltage, **efficiency** is limited and the input voltage must be high enough to always allow the active device to reduce the voltage by some amount. Linear regulators may place the regulating device in parallel with the loa...
184. ...the voltage divider - the bottom half being the load. The power dissipated by the regulating device is equal to the power supply output current times the "voltage drop" in the regulating device. For **efficiency** and reduced stress on the pass transistor, designers try to minimize the voltage drop but not all circuits regulate well once the input (unregulated) voltage comes close to the required output voltag...
185. ...(also known as duty cycle). In contrast, a linear power supply regulates the output voltage by continually dissipating power in the pass transistor. The switched-mode power supply's higher electrical **efficiency** is an important advantage. Switched-mode power supplies can also be substantially smaller and lighter than a linear supply because the transformer can be much smaller. This is because it operates at...
186. ...quirements in commercial designs result in a usually much greater component count and corresponding circuit complexity. Switching regulators are used as replacements for linear regulators when higher **efficiency**, smaller size or lighter weight is required. They are, however, more complicated; switching currents can cause electrical noise problems if not carefully suppressed, and simple designs may have a poo...
187. ...itter region of a pass transistor in its active mode). A linear regulator regulates either output voltage or current by dissipating the electric power in the form of heat, and hence its maximum power **efficiency** is voltage-out/voltage-in since the volt difference is wasted. In contrast, a SMPS changes output voltage and current by switching ideally lossless storage elements, such as inductors and capacitors,...
188. ...ments (approximated by transistors operated outside of their active mode) have no resistance when "on" and carry no current when "off", and so converters with ideal components would operate with 100% **efficiency** (i.e., all input power is delivered to the load; no power is wasted as dissipated heat). In reality, these ideal components do not exist, so a switching power supply cannot be 100% efficient, but it...
189. ...o the load; no power is wasted as dissipated heat). In reality, these ideal components do not exist, so a switching power supply cannot be 100% efficient, but it is still a significant improvement in **efficiency** over a linear regulator. For example, if a DC source, an inductor, a switch, and the corresponding electrical ground are placed in series and the switch is driven by a square wave, the peak-to-peak v...
190. ...ely high frequencies. As such, switching transients and ripple introduced onto the output waveforms can be filtered with a small LC filter. The main advantage of the switching power supply is greater **efficiency** (up to c. 98–99%) and lower heat generation than linear regulators because the switching transistor dissipates little power when acting as a switch. Other advantages include smaller size, and lighter...
191. ...ve always been particularly cost sensitive. The first chargers were linear power supplies, but they quickly moved to the cost effective ringing choke converter (RCC) SMPS topology, when new levels of **efficiency** were required. Recently, the demand for even lower no-load power requirements in the application has meant that flyback topology is being used more widely; primary side sensing flyback controllers ar...
192. ...n in the 1970s and blue LEDs (6H-SiC) worldwide in the 1980s. Carbide LED production soon stopped when a different material, gallium nitride, showed 10–100 times brighter emission. This difference in **efficiency** is due to the unfavorable indirect bandgap of SiC, whereas GaN has a direct bandgap which favors light emission. However, SiC is still one of the important LED components: It is a popular substrate f...
193. ...id phases should not be approximated to be pair-wise additive – especially for metals. Nevertheless, the Lennard-Jones potential is used in solid-state physics due to its simplicity and computational **efficiency**. Hence, the basic properties of the solid phases and the solid–fluid phase equilibria have been investigated several times, e.g. Refs. The Lennard-Jones substance form fcc (face centered cubic), hcp...
194. ...iples. Optical surface plasmons are being investigated with a view to improve makeup by L'Oréal and others. In 2009, a Korean research team found a way to greatly improve organic light-emitting diode **efficiency** with the use of plasmons. A group of European researchers led by IMEC has begun work to improve solar cell efficiencies and costs through incorporation of metallic nanostructures (using plasmonic eff...
195. ...tive resistance region to the current at the bottom "(see graphs, above)": formula_27 The larger this is, the larger the potential AC output for a given DC bias current, and therefore the greater the **efficiency** A negative differential resistance device can amplify an AC signal applied to it if the signal is biased with a DC voltage or current to lie within the negative resistance region of its "I–V" curve....
196. ...such markets can be abusively manipulated with consequent adverse price and reliability impact to consumers, generally competitive production of electrical energy leads to worthwhile improvements in **efficiency**. However, transmission and distribution are harder problems since returns on investment are not as easy to find. Although electricity had been known to be produced as a result of the chemical reactio...
197. ...l emission area will nearly always be very very much less than the apparent "macroscopic" geometrical area ("A") of the physical emitter as observed visually. A dimensionless parameter "α", "the area **efficiency** of emission", can be defined by Also, a "macroscopic" (or "mean") emission current density "J" (averaged over the geometrical area "A" of the emitter) can be defined, and related to the reference cur...
198. ...d to the reference current density "J" used above, by This leads to the following "large-area versions" of the simplified standard Fowler–Nordheim-type equation: Both these equations contain the area **efficiency** of emission "α". For any given emitter this parameter has a value that is usually not well known. In general, "α" varies greatly as between different emitter materials, and as between different speci...
199. ...eld "F" has caused confusion or error. More generally, the aims in technological development of large-area field emitters are to enhance the uniformity of emission by increasing the value of the area **efficiency** of emission "α", and to reduce the "onset" voltage at which significant emission occurs, by increasing the value of "β". Eq. (41) shows that this can be done in two ways: either by trying to develop...
200. ...ting antennas and radars, and they are typically used to house the antennas for performing measurements of antenna radiation patterns and electromagnetic interference. Performance expectations (gain, **efficiency**, pattern characteristics, etc.) constitute primary challenges in designing stand alone or embedded antennas. Designs are becoming ever more complex with a single device incorporating multiple technol...
201. ...lack of moving parts or circulating liquid, very long life, invulnerability to leaks, small size, and flexible shape. Its main disadvantages are high cost for a given cooling capacity and poor power **efficiency** (a low coefficient of performance or COP). Many researchers and companies are trying to develop Peltier coolers that are cheap and efficient. (See Thermoelectric materials.) A Peltier cooler can also...
202. ...hat it remains at ambient temperature, while the cool side goes below room temperature. In special applications, multiple coolers can be cascaded or staged together for lower temperature, but overall **efficiency** (COP) drops significantly. The maximum COP of any refrigeration cycle is ultimately limited by the difference between the desired (cold side) and ambient (hot side) temperature (the temperature of th...
203. ...hich will have a greater thermal resistance between the sides and allow a lower temperature to be reached but produce more resistive heating, and shorter pillars, which will have a greater electrical **efficiency** but let more heat leak from the hot to cold side by thermal conduction. For large temperature differences, longer pillars are far less efficient than stacking separate, progressively larger modules;...
204. ...odules; the modules get larger as each layer must remove both the heat moved by the above layer and the waste heat of the layer. Requirements for thermoelectric materials: Materials suitable for high **efficiency** TEC systems must have a combination of low thermal conductivity and high electrical conductivity. The combined effect of different material combinations is commonly compared using a figure of merit k...
205. ...f low thermal conductivity and high electrical conductivity. The combined effect of different material combinations is commonly compared using a figure of merit known as ZT, a measure of the system's **efficiency**. The equation for ZT is given below, where formula_1 is the Seebeck coefficient, formula_2 is the electrical conductivity and formula_3 is the thermal conductivity. formula_4 There are few materials...
206. ...for the delivery of precise cooling to very small areas. These factors make them a common choice in scientific and engineering applications with demanding requirements where cost and absolute energy **efficiency** are not primary concerns. Another benefit of TEC is that it does not use refrigerants in its operation. Prior to their phaseout some early refrigerants, such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), contribute...
207. ...ay also have significant environmental impact with global warming potential or carry other safety risks with them. TEC systems have a number of notable disadvantages. Foremost is their limited energy **efficiency** compared to conventional vapor-compression systems and the constraints on the total heat flux (heat flow) that they are able to generate per unit area. This topic is further discussed in the performa...
208. ...cold sides. Another issue with performance is a direct consequence of one of their advantages: being small. This means that: In refrigeration applications, thermoelectric junctions have about 1/4 the **efficiency** compared to conventional means (vapor compression refrigeration): they offer around 10–15% efficiency (COP of 1.0–1.5) of the ideal Carnot cycle refrigerator, compared with 40–60% achieved by convent...
209. ...mall. This means that: In refrigeration applications, thermoelectric junctions have about 1/4 the efficiency compared to conventional means (vapor compression refrigeration): they offer around 10–15% **efficiency** (COP of 1.0–1.5) of the ideal Carnot cycle refrigerator, compared with 40–60% achieved by conventional compression-cycle systems (reverse Rankine systems using compression/expansion). Due to this low...
210. ...OP of 1.0–1.5) of the ideal Carnot cycle refrigerator, compared with 40–60% achieved by conventional compression-cycle systems (reverse Rankine systems using compression/expansion). Due to this lower **efficiency**, thermoelectric cooling is generally only used in environments where the solid-state nature (no moving parts), low maintenance, compact size, and orientation insensitivity outweighs pure efficiency....
211. ...r efficiency, thermoelectric cooling is generally only used in environments where the solid-state nature (no moving parts), low maintenance, compact size, and orientation insensitivity outweighs pure **efficiency**. While lower than conventional means, efficiency can be good enough, provided: However, since low current also means a low amount of moved heat, for all practical purposes the coefficient of performa...
212. ...only used in environments where the solid-state nature (no moving parts), low maintenance, compact size, and orientation insensitivity outweighs pure efficiency. While lower than conventional means, **efficiency** can be good enough, provided: However, since low current also means a low amount of moved heat, for all practical purposes the coefficient of performance will be low. Thermoelectric coolers are used...
213. ...ectricity delivery is the process that starts after generation of electricity in the power station, up to the use by the consumer. The main processes in electricity delivery are, by order: Electrical **efficiency** The efficiency of a system in electronics and electrical engineering is defined as useful power output divided by the total electrical power consumed (a fractional expression), typically denoted by t...
214. ...ery is the process that starts after generation of electricity in the power station, up to the use by the consumer. The main processes in electricity delivery are, by order: Electrical efficiency The **efficiency** of a system in electronics and electrical engineering is defined as useful power output divided by the total electrical power consumed (a fractional expression), typically denoted by the Greek small...
215. ...output divided by the total electrical power consumed (a fractional expression), typically denoted by the Greek small letter eta (η – ήτα). If energy output and input are expressed in the same units, **efficiency** is a dimensionless number. Where it is not customary or convenient to represent input and output energy in the same units, efficiency-like quantities have units associated with them. For example, the...
216. ...ήτα). If energy output and input are expressed in the same units, efficiency is a dimensionless number. Where it is not customary or convenient to represent input and output energy in the same units, **efficiency**-like quantities have units associated with them. For example, the heat rate of a fossil fuel power plant may be expressed in BTU per kilowatt-hour. Luminous efficacy of a light source expresses the a...
217. ...lant may be expressed in BTU per kilowatt-hour. Luminous efficacy of a light source expresses the amount of visible light for a certain amount of power transfer and has the units of lumens per watt. "**Efficiency**" should not be confused with "effectiveness": a system that wastes most of its input power but produces exactly what it is meant to is effective but not efficient. The term "efficiency" makes sense o...
218. ...ens per watt. "Efficiency" should not be confused with "effectiveness": a system that wastes most of its input power but produces exactly what it is meant to is effective but not efficient. The term "**efficiency**" makes sense only in reference to the wanted effect. A light bulb, for example, might have 2% efficiency at emitting light yet still be 98% efficient at heating a room (In practice it is nearly 100%...
219. ...input power but produces exactly what it is meant to is effective but not efficient. The term "efficiency" makes sense only in reference to the wanted effect. A light bulb, for example, might have 2% **efficiency** at emitting light yet still be 98% efficient at heating a room (In practice it is nearly 100% efficient at heating a room because the light energy will also be converted to heat eventually, apart fro...
220. ...e drawing 20 watts of power from a power source is 50% efficient. (10/20 × 100 = 50%) As a result of the maximum power theorem, devices transfer maximum power to a load when running at 50% electrical **efficiency**. This occurs when the load resistance (of the device in question) is equal to the internal Thevenin equivalent resistance of the power source. This is valid only for non-reactive source and load impe...
221. ...when the load resistance (of the device in question) is equal to the internal Thevenin equivalent resistance of the power source. This is valid only for non-reactive source and load impedances. High **efficiency** is particularly relevant in systems that can operate from batteries. Inefficiency may require weighing the cost either of the wasted energy, or of the required power supply, against the cost of attai...
222. ...rly relevant in systems that can operate from batteries. Inefficiency may require weighing the cost either of the wasted energy, or of the required power supply, against the cost of attaining greater **efficiency**. Efficiency can usually be improved by choosing different components or by redesigning the system. Inefficiency probably produces extra heat within the system, which must be removed if it is to remai...
223. ...in systems that can operate from batteries. Inefficiency may require weighing the cost either of the wasted energy, or of the required power supply, against the cost of attaining greater efficiency. **Efficiency** can usually be improved by choosing different components or by redesigning the system. Inefficiency probably produces extra heat within the system, which must be removed if it is to remain within its...
224. ...may reduce heating costs or increase air conditioning costs. Impedance bridging connections have a load impedance much larger than the source, which helps transfer voltage signals at high electrical **efficiency**. Fulgurite Fulgurites (), commonly called "fossilized lightning", are natural tubes, clumps, or masses of sintered, vitrified, or fused soil, sand, rock, organic debris and other sediments that somet...
225. ...illed cell, resulting in the efficient production of vacuum ultraviolet light. St. Elmo's Fire being similar, they believe it could be used as lighting but with a higher power source, thus increasing **efficiency** by over 50%. St. Elmo's fire is referenced in the works of Julius Caesar ("De Bello Africo", 47) and Pliny the Elder ("Naturalis Historia", book 2, par. 101), Alcaeus frag. 34. Earlier, Xenophanes of...
226. ...s for obtaining the Westinghouse generators; he did not want his company's equipment to be associated with the death penalty and he wanted to use one to prove a point, paying Brown to set up a public **efficiency** test to show that Westinghouse's sales claim of manufacturing 50% more efficient generators was false. That spring Brown published "The Comparative Danger to Life of the Alternating and Continuous El...
227. ...majority of the letters were correspondence between Brown and Thomson-Houston on the topic of acquiring the three Westinghouse generators for the state of New York as well as using one of them in an **efficiency** test. They also showed that Brown had received $5,000 from Edison Electric to purchase the surplus Westinghouse generators from Thomson-Houston. Further Edison involvement was contained in letters fr...
228. ...eady been deployed in Europe at the International Electro-Technical Exhibition of 1891, where Mikhail Dolivo-Dobrovolsky used this system to transmit electric power over a distance of 176 km with 75% **efficiency**. In 1891 he also created a three-phase transformer, the short-circuited (squirrel-cage) induction motor and designed the world's first three-phase hydroelectric power plant. Patent lawsuits were stil...
229. ...ared with other capacitor families. Because the forming voltage defines the oxide layer thickness, the desired voltage rating can be produced very simply. Electrolytic capacitors have high volumetric **efficiency**, the so-called "CV product", defined as the product of capacitance and voltage divided by volume. Combinations of anode materials for electrolytic capacitors and the electrolytes used have given rise...
230. ...eat combustion air blown into a blast furnace, was invented and patented by James Beaumont Neilson in 1828 at Wilsontown Ironworks in Scotland. Hot blast was the single most important advance in fuel **efficiency** of the blast furnace as it greatly reduced the fuel consumption for making pig iron, and was one of the most important technologies developed during the Industrial Revolution. Falling costs for produ...
231. ...ne, Rudolf Clausius, William Thomson, James Clerk Maxwell, Ludwig Boltzmann and J. Willard Gibbs. These scientific principles were applied to a variety of industrial concerns, including improving the **efficiency** of boilers and steam turbines. The work of Michael Faraday and others was pivotal in laying the foundations of the modern scientific understanding of electricity. Scottish scientist James Clerk Maxwe...
232. .... Unlike earlier steam engines, the turbine produced rotary power rather than reciprocating power which required a crank and heavy flywheel. The large number of stages of the turbine allowed for high **efficiency** and reduced size by 90%. The turbine's first application was in shipping followed by electric generation in 1903. The first widely used internal combustion engine was the Otto type of 1876. From the...
233. ...al and human power. Horses and mules remained important in agriculture until the development of the internal combustion tractor near the end of the Second Industrial Revolution. Improvements in steam **efficiency**, like triple-expansion steam engines, allowed ships to carry much more freight than coal, resulting in greatly increased volumes of international trade. Higher steam engine efficiency caused the numb...
234. ...ements in steam efficiency, like triple-expansion steam engines, allowed ships to carry much more freight than coal, resulting in greatly increased volumes of international trade. Higher steam engine **efficiency** caused the number of steam engines to increase several fold, leading to an increase in coal usage, the phenomenon being called the Jevons paradox. By 1890 there was an international telegraph network...
235. ...States Steel, formed by financier J. P. Morgan in 1901, who purchased and consolidated steel firms built by Andrew Carnegie and others. Increased mechanization of industry and improvements to worker **efficiency**, increased the productivity of factories while undercutting the need for skilled labor. Mechanical innovations such as batch and continuous processing began to become much more prominent in factories...
236. ...n magnets have high coercivity at room temperature, but as the temperature rises above , the coercivity decreases drastically until the Curie temperature (around ). This fall in coercivity limits the **efficiency** of the magnet under high-temperature conditions, such as in wind turbines and hybrid vehicle motors. Dysprosium (Dy) or terbium (Tb) is added to curb the fall in performance from temperature changes....
237. ...ith automated control the FusionStar project was canceled and the company NSD Ltd was founded. The spherical FusionStar technology was then further developed as a linear geometry system with improved **efficiency** and higher neutron output by NSD Ltd. which became NSD-Fusion GmbH in 2005. In early 2000, Alex Klein developed a cross between a polywell and ion beams. Using Gabor lensing, Dr. Klein attempted to f...
238. ...lf-life days (approximately 12.32 years) and it decays by beta decay. The electrons produced have an average energy of 5.7 keV. Because the emitted electrons have relatively low energy, the detection **efficiency** by scintillation counting is rather low. However, hydrogen atoms are present in all organic compounds, so tritium is frequently used as a tracer in biochemical studies. C decays by positron emission...
239. ...titute of Technology, who first presented the design. There are variations on the basic Ćuk converter. For example, the coils may share a single magnetic core, which drops the output ripple, and adds **efficiency**. Because the power transfer flows continuously via the capacitor, this type of switcher has minimized EMI radiation. The Ćuk converter allows energy to flow bidirectionally by using a diode and a swi...
240. ...ditionally, the parasitic elements of the transformer, namely leakage inductance and magnetizing inductance can be used to modify the circuit into a resonant converter circuit which has much improved **efficiency**. Instead of using two discrete inductor components, many designers implement a "coupled inductor Ćuk converter", using a single magnetic component that includes both inductors on the same core. The t...
241. ...cooler is a refrigerator that is compact and has no circulating fluid or moving parts. Such refrigerators are useful in applications where their advantages outweigh the disadvantage of their very low **efficiency**. Other heat pump applications such as dehumidifiers may also use Peltier heat pumps. Thermoelectric coolers are trivially reversible, in that they can be used as heaters by simply reversing the curre...
242. ...es. The circuit board is composed of 16 custom-designed chips, referred to as NeuroCores. Each NeuroCore's analog circuitry is designed to emulate neural elements for 65536 neurons, maximizing energy **efficiency**. The emulated neurons are connected using digital circuitry designed to maximize spiking throughput. A research project with implications for neuromorphic engineering is the Human Brain Project that...
243. ...017. The chip uses an asynchronous spiking neural network (SNN) to implement adaptive self-modifying event-driven fine-grained parallel computations used to implement learning and inference with high **efficiency**. IMEC, a Belgium-based nanoelectronics research center, demonstrated the world's first self-learning neuromorphic chip. The brain-inspired chip, based on OxRAM technology, has the capability of self-...
244. ...addition the use of MgB in blast-enhanced explosives and propellants has been proposed for the same reasons. Decoy flares containing magnesium diboride/Teflon/Viton display 30–60% increased spectral **efficiency**, E (J gsr), compared to classical Magnesium/Teflon/Viton(MTV) payloads. An application of magnesium diboride to hybrid rocket propulsion has also been investigated, mixing the compound in paraffin wa...
245. ...Mark I computer earned him his master's degree. His subsequent doctoral work started his interest in linear induction motors. He derived an equation for "goodness" which parametrically describes the **efficiency** of a motor in general terms, and showed that it tended to imply that large motors are more efficient.  He became professor of heavy electrical engineering at Imperial College London in 1964 where he...
246. ...of static potentials, but these may be transitory and small. Eddy currents generate resistive losses that transform some forms of energy, such as kinetic energy, into heat. This Joule heating reduces **efficiency** of iron-core transformers and electric motors and other devices that use changing magnetic fields. Eddy currents are minimized in these devices by selecting magnetic core materials that have low elec...
247. ...the field is still driven by materials development, primarily in optimizing transport and thermoelectric properties. The usefulness of a material in thermoelectric systems is determined by the device **efficiency**. This is determined by the material's electrical conductivity ("σ"), thermal conductivity ("κ"), and Seebeck coefficient (S), which change with temperature ("T"). The maximum efficiency of the energy...
248. ...by the device efficiency. This is determined by the material's electrical conductivity ("σ"), thermal conductivity ("κ"), and Seebeck coefficient (S), which change with temperature ("T"). The maximum **efficiency** of the energy conversion process (for both power generation and cooling) at a given temperature point in the material is determined by the thermoelectric materials figure of merit formula_1, given by...
249. ...conversion process (for both power generation and cooling) at a given temperature point in the material is determined by the thermoelectric materials figure of merit formula_1, given byformula_2 The **efficiency** of a thermoelectric device for electricity generation is given by formula_3, defined as formula_4 The maximum efficiency of a thermoelectric device is typically described in terms of its device figur...
250. ...the thermoelectric materials figure of merit formula_1, given byformula_2 The efficiency of a thermoelectric device for electricity generation is given by formula_3, defined as formula_4 The maximum **efficiency** of a thermoelectric device is typically described in terms of its device figure of merit formula_5 where the maximum device efficiency is approximately given by formula_6 where formula_7 is the fixed...
251. ...neration is given by formula_3, defined as formula_4 The maximum efficiency of a thermoelectric device is typically described in terms of its device figure of merit formula_5 where the maximum device **efficiency** is approximately given by formula_6 where formula_7 is the fixed temperature at the hot junction, formula_8 is the fixed temperature at the surface being cooled, and formula_9 is the mean of formula_...
252. ...mula_6 where formula_7 is the fixed temperature at the hot junction, formula_8 is the fixed temperature at the surface being cooled, and formula_9 is the mean of formula_7 and formula_8. This maximum **efficiency** equation is exact when thermoelectric properties are temperature-independent. For a single thermoelectric leg the device efficiency can be calculated from the temperature dependent properties "S", "κ...
253. ...and formula_9 is the mean of formula_7 and formula_8. This maximum efficiency equation is exact when thermoelectric properties are temperature-independent. For a single thermoelectric leg the device **efficiency** can be calculated from the temperature dependent properties "S", "κ" and "σ" and the heat and electric current flow through the material. In an actual thermoelectric device, two materials are used (t...
254. ..."σ" and the heat and electric current flow through the material. In an actual thermoelectric device, two materials are used (typically one n-type and one p-type) with metal interconnects. The maximum **efficiency** formula_12 is then calculated from the efficiency of both legs and the electrical and thermal losses from the interconnects and surroundings. Ignoring these losses and temperature dependencies in "S"...
255. ...the material. In an actual thermoelectric device, two materials are used (typically one n-type and one p-type) with metal interconnects. The maximum efficiency formula_12 is then calculated from the **efficiency** of both legs and the electrical and thermal losses from the interconnects and surroundings. Ignoring these losses and temperature dependencies in "S", "κ" and "σ", an inexact estimate for formula_5 i...
256. ...rmoelectric materials, respectively. Only when n and p elements have the same and temperature independent properties (formula_16) does formula_17. Since thermoelectric devices are heat engines, their **efficiency** is limited by the Carnot efficiency formula_18, the first factor in formula_12, while formula_5 and formula_1 determines the maximum reversibility of the thermodynamic process globally and locally, r...
257. ...Only when n and p elements have the same and temperature independent properties (formula_16) does formula_17. Since thermoelectric devices are heat engines, their efficiency is limited by the Carnot **efficiency** formula_18, the first factor in formula_12, while formula_5 and formula_1 determines the maximum reversibility of the thermodynamic process globally and locally, respectively. Regardless, the coeffic...
258. ...ce with fixed geometry and unlimited heat source and cooling. If the geometry of the device is optimally designed for the specific application, the thermoelectric materials will operate at their peak **efficiency** which is determined by their formula_23 not formula_24. For good efficiency, materials with high electrical conductivity, low thermal conductivity and high Seebeck coefficient are needed. The band st...
259. ...y of the device is optimally designed for the specific application, the thermoelectric materials will operate at their peak efficiency which is determined by their formula_23 not formula_24. For good **efficiency**, materials with high electrical conductivity, low thermal conductivity and high Seebeck coefficient are needed. The band structure of semiconductors offers better thermoelectric effects than the band...
260. ...rgy so that the average conduction electron energy is close to the Fermi energy, reducing the forces pushing for charge transport. Therefore, semiconductors are ideal thermoelectric materials. In the **efficiency** equations above, thermal conductivity and electrical conductivity compete. The thermal conductivity "κ" in crystalline solids has mainly two components:  According to the Wiedemann–Franz law, the hig...
261. ...Thus in metals the ratio of thermal to electrical conductivity is about fixed, as the electron part dominates. In semiconductors, the phonon part is important and cannot be neglected. It reduces the **efficiency**. For good efficiency a low ratio of "κ" / "κ" is desired. Therefore, it is necessary to minimize "κ" and keep the electrical conductivity high. Thus semiconductors should be highly doped. G. A. Slack...
262. ...atio of thermal to electrical conductivity is about fixed, as the electron part dominates. In semiconductors, the phonon part is important and cannot be neglected. It reduces the efficiency. For good **efficiency** a low ratio of "κ" / "κ" is desired. Therefore, it is necessary to minimize "κ" and keep the electrical conductivity high. Thus semiconductors should be highly doped. G. A. Slack proposed that in ord...
263. ...it, formula_25, depends on doping concentration and temperature of the material of interest. The material quality factor formula_36 is useful because it allows for an intrinsic comparison of possible **efficiency** between different materials. This relation shows that improving the electronic component formula_37, which primarily affects the Seebeck coefficient, will increase the quality factor of a material. A...
264. ...rystalline bismuth telluride compounds. These compounds are usually obtained with directional solidification from melt or powder metallurgy processes. Materials produced with these methods have lower **efficiency** than single crystalline ones due to the random orientation of crystal grains, but their mechanical properties are superior and the sensitivity to structural defects and impurities is lower due to hig...
265. ...e crystals. In 2002, Nolas and Goldsmid have come up with a suggestion that systems with the phonon mean free path larger than the charge carrier mean free path can exhibit an enhanced thermoelectric **efficiency**. This can be realized in amorphous thermoelectrics and soon they became a focus of many studies. This ground-breaking idea was accomplished in Cu-Ge-Te, NbO, In-Ga-Zn-O, Zr-Ni-Sn, Si-Au, and Ti-Pb-V-...
266. ...honon scattering, which is still a challenge for crystalline thermoelectrics. A bright future is expected for these materials. Functionally graded materials make it possible to improve the conversion **efficiency** of existing thermoelectrics. These materials have a non-uniform carrier concentration distribution and in some cases also solid solution composition. In power generation applications the temperature...
267. ...is substantially lower than its maximum value. This problem can be solved by using materials whose transport properties vary along their length thus enabling substantial improvements to the operating **efficiency** over large temperature differences. This is possible with functionally graded materials as they have a variable carrier concentration along the length of the material, which is optimized for operatio...
268. ...ion metal silicides the power factor is higher than in the corresponding polycrystalline material but the lack of reliable data on thermal conductivity prevents the evaluation of their thermoelectric **efficiency**. Skutterudites, a cobalt arsenide mineral with variable amounts of nickel and iron, can be produced artificially, and are candidates for better thermoelectric materials. One advantage of nanostructur...
269. ...impediment to further development of SnSe is that it has a relatively low carrier concentration: approximately 10 cm. Compounding this issue is the fact that SnSe has been reported to have low doping **efficiency**. However, such single crystalline materials suffer from inability to make useful devices due to their brittleness as well as narrow range of temperatures, where ZT is reported to be high. In 2021 the...
270. ...ans of additive manufacturing is due to a desire to improve the properties of these materials, namely increasing their thermoelectric figure of merit ZT, and thereby improving their energy conversion **efficiency**. Research has been done proving the efficacy and investigating the material properties of thermoelectric materials produced via additive manufacturing. An extrusion-based additive manufacturing metho...
271. ...cooler (compared to a vapor-compression refrigerator) are its lack of moving parts or refrigerant, and its small size and flexible shape (form factor). The main disadvantage of Peltier coolers is low **efficiency**. It is estimated that materials with ZT>3 (about 20–30% Carnot efficiency) would be required to replace traditional coolers in most applications. Today, Peltier coolers are only used in niche applica...
272. ...ng parts or refrigerant, and its small size and flexible shape (form factor). The main disadvantage of Peltier coolers is low efficiency. It is estimated that materials with ZT>3 (about 20–30% Carnot **efficiency**) would be required to replace traditional coolers in most applications. Today, Peltier coolers are only used in niche applications, especially small scale, where efficiency is not important. Thermoel...
273. ...ZT>3 (about 20–30% Carnot efficiency) would be required to replace traditional coolers in most applications. Today, Peltier coolers are only used in niche applications, especially small scale, where **efficiency** is not important. Thermoelectric efficiency depends on the "figure of merit", ZT. There is no theoretical upper limit to ZT, and as ZT approaches infinity, the thermoelectric efficiency approaches th...
274. ...be required to replace traditional coolers in most applications. Today, Peltier coolers are only used in niche applications, especially small scale, where efficiency is not important. Thermoelectric **efficiency** depends on the "figure of merit", ZT. There is no theoretical upper limit to ZT, and as ZT approaches infinity, the thermoelectric efficiency approaches the Carnot limit. However, until recently no k...
275. ...scale, where efficiency is not important. Thermoelectric efficiency depends on the "figure of merit", ZT. There is no theoretical upper limit to ZT, and as ZT approaches infinity, the thermoelectric **efficiency** approaches the Carnot limit. However, until recently no known thermoelectrics had a ZT>3.  In 2019, researchers reported a material with "approximated" ZT between 5 and 6. As of 2010, thermoelectric...
276. ...il recently no known thermoelectrics had a ZT>3.  In 2019, researchers reported a material with "approximated" ZT between 5 and 6. As of 2010, thermoelectric generators serve application niches where **efficiency** and cost are less important than reliability, light weight, and small size. Internal combustion engines capture 20–25% of the energy released during fuel combustion. Cogeneration power plants use the...
277. ...uency classification of plasmas. They generally exhibit hot electrons that are powered by the alternating electric field, and a neutral and ion component, which is significantly colder due to the low **efficiency** of the energy transfer between light electrons and heavy neutrals and ions. The term nonthermal plasma includes anisothermal plasmas and means that the different degrees of freedom of the plasma are...
278. ...nd experimentation. Creating a superconductor that functions at ambient temperature would constitute an important technological break-through, which could potentially contribute to much higher energy **efficiency** in grid distribution of electricity. Under exceptional circumstances, positrons, muons, anti-muons, taus and anti-taus may potentially also carry electric charge. This is theoretically possible, yet...
279. ...ltrafast electron diffraction. Photocathodes are also commonly used as the negatively charged electrode in a light detection device such as a photomultiplier, phototube and image intensifier. Quantum **efficiency** is a unitless number that measures the sensitivity of the photocathode to light. It is the ratio of the number of electrons emitted to the number of incident photons. This property depends on the wav...
280. ...ight being used to illuminate the photocathode. For many applications, QE is the most important property as the photocathodes are used solely for converting photons into an electrical signal. Quantum **efficiency** may be calculated from photocurrent (formula_1), laser power (formula_2), and either the photon energy (formula_3) or laser wavelength (formula_4) using the following equation. formula_5 For some app...
281. ...sed through the photocathode without causing emission to be bounced back for a second try. This mimics the retina on many mammals. The effectiveness of a photocathode is commonly expressed as quantum **efficiency**, that being the ratio of emitted electrons vs. impinging quanta (of light). The efficiency varies with construction as well, as it can be improved with a stronger electric field. The surface of photo...
282. ...This mimics the retina on many mammals. The effectiveness of a photocathode is commonly expressed as quantum efficiency, that being the ratio of emitted electrons vs. impinging quanta (of light). The **efficiency** varies with construction as well, as it can be improved with a stronger electric field. The surface of photocathodes can be characterized by various surface sensitive techniques like scanning tunneli...
283. ...ese coils by the slow change in magnetic flux with respect to time is not large enough to produce a repulsive electromagnetic force sufficient to support the weight of the train. Moreover, the energy **efficiency** for EDS at low speed is low. For this reason the train must have wheels or some other form of landing gear to support the train until it reaches a speed that can sustain levitation. Since a train may...
284. ...isposal; however, in some systems, it is routed back into the developer unit for reuse. This process, known as toner reclaim, is much more economical, but can possibly lead to a reduced overall toner **efficiency** through a process known as 'toner polluting' whereby concentration levels of toner/developer having poor electrostatic properties are permitted to build up in the developer unit, reducing the overall...
285. ...through a process known as 'toner polluting' whereby concentration levels of toner/developer having poor electrostatic properties are permitted to build up in the developer unit, reducing the overall **efficiency** of the toner in the system. Some systems have abandoned the separate developer (carrier). These systems, known as monocomponent, operate as above, but use either a magnetic toner or fusible developer...
286. ...and created what they refer to as the "Florida Bitter". By elongating the mounting and cooling holes, there is a substantial drop in the stresses developed in the system and an improvement in cooling **efficiency**. As the stresses increased in the original bitter plates, they would flex slightly causing the small circular cooling holes to move out of alignment reducing the efficacy of the cooling system. The F...
287. ...will flex less due to the reduced stresses, and the elongated cooling holes will always be in partial alignment despite any flexure the discs experience. This new design allowed for a 40% increase in **efficiency** and has become the design of choice for Bitter plate based resistive magnets. Unlike a copper wire, the current density of a current carrying disc is not uniform across its cross-sectional area, but...
288. ...(i.e., disc with a large difference between their inner and outer radius) will have a larger discrepancy in the current density between the inner and outer portions of the disc. This will reduce the **efficiency** and cause additional complications in the system because there will be a more substantial temperature and stress gradient along the disc. As such, a series of nested coils is often used as it will mo...
289. ...ation generation was more efficient than small steam engines and because line shafts and belts had high friction losses. Electric motors were more efficient than human or animal power. The conversion **efficiency** for animal feed to work is between 4 and 5% compared to over 30% for electricity generated using coal. Electrification and economic growth are highly correlated. In economics, the efficiency of elect...
290. ...nversion efficiency for animal feed to work is between 4 and 5% compared to over 30% for electricity generated using coal. Electrification and economic growth are highly correlated. In economics, the **efficiency** of electrical generation has been shown to correlate with "technological progress". In the U.S. from 1870 to 1880 each man-hour was provided with .55 hp. In 1950 each man-hour was provided with 5 hp,...
291. ...ompound winding, which gave more stable voltage with load, improved the operating characteristics of generators. The improvements in electrical generation technology in the 19th century increased its **efficiency** and reliability greatly. The first magnetos only converted a few percent of mechanical energy to electricity. By the end of the 19th century the highest efficiencies were over 90%. Sir Humphry Davy i...
292. ...95% in 1917. Despite the superiority of alternating current for most applications, a few existing DC systems continued to operate for several decades after AC became the standard for new systems. The **efficiency** of steam prime movers in converting the heat energy of fuel into mechanical work was a critical factor in the economic operation of steam central generating stations. Early projects used reciprocatin...
293. ...ntroduction of the steam turbine fundamentally changed the economics of central station operations. Steam turbines could be made in larger ratings than reciprocating engines, and generally had higher **efficiency**. The speed of steam turbines did not fluctuate cyclically during each revolution. This made parallel operation of AC generators feasible, and improved the stability of rotary converters for productio...
294. ...rbines could be built to operate on higher pressure and temperature steam. A fundamental principle of thermodynamics is that the higher the temperature of the steam entering an engine, the higher the **efficiency**. The introduction of steam turbines motivated a series of improvements in temperatures and pressures. The resulting increased conversion efficiency lowered electricity prices. The power density of bo...
295. ...ure of the steam entering an engine, the higher the efficiency. The introduction of steam turbines motivated a series of improvements in temperatures and pressures. The resulting increased conversion **efficiency** lowered electricity prices. The power density of boilers was increased by using forced combustion air and by using compressed air to feed pulverized coal. Also, coal handling was mechanized and autom...
296. ...elligibly. In wireless communication technologies only tiny amounts of power reach the receiver. In contrast, with wireless power transfer the amount of energy received is the important thing, so the **efficiency** (fraction of transmitted energy that is received) is the more significant parameter. For this reason, wireless power technologies are likely to be more limited by distance than wireless communication...
297. ...60 Hz so AC mains current is applied directly to the transmitter coil, but in most systems an electronic oscillator generates a higher frequency AC current which drives the coil, because transmission **efficiency** improves with frequency. Inductive coupling is the oldest and most widely used wireless power technology, and virtually the only one so far which is used in commercial products. It is used in inducti...
298. ...he receiver coil formula_5 when L2 is open circuited. If the two coils are on the same axis and close together so all the magnetic flux from formula_4 passes through formula_5, formula_8 and the link **efficiency** approaches 100%. The greater the separation between the coils, the more of the magnetic field from the first coil misses the second, and the lower formula_9 and the link efficiency are, approaching z...
299. ...ula_8 and the link efficiency approaches 100%. The greater the separation between the coils, the more of the magnetic field from the first coil misses the second, and the lower formula_9 and the link **efficiency** are, approaching zero at large separations. The link efficiency and power transferred is roughly proportional to formula_10. In order to achieve high efficiency, the coils must be very close together...
300. ...eparation between the coils, the more of the magnetic field from the first coil misses the second, and the lower formula_9 and the link efficiency are, approaching zero at large separations. The link **efficiency** and power transferred is roughly proportional to formula_10. In order to achieve high efficiency, the coils must be very close together, a fraction of the coil diameter formula_11, usually within cen...
301. ..., and the lower formula_9 and the link efficiency are, approaching zero at large separations. The link efficiency and power transferred is roughly proportional to formula_10. In order to achieve high **efficiency**, the coils must be very close together, a fraction of the coil diameter formula_11, usually within centimeters, with the coils' axes aligned. Wide, flat coil shapes are usually used, to increase coup...
302. ...improving coupling and reducing interference to nearby electronics, but they are heavy and bulky so small wireless devices often use air-core coils. Ordinary inductive coupling can only achieve high **efficiency** when the coils are very close together, usually adjacent. In most modern inductive systems resonant inductive coupling is used, in which the efficiency is increased by using resonant circuits. This c...
303. ...dinary inductive coupling can only achieve high efficiency when the coils are very close together, usually adjacent. In most modern inductive systems resonant inductive coupling is used, in which the **efficiency** is increased by using resonant circuits. This can achieve high efficiencies at greater distances than nonresonant inductive coupling. Resonant inductive coupling ("electrodynamic coupling", "strongly...
304. ...MIT used two coupled tuned circuits each made of a 25 cm self-resonant coil of wire at 10 MHz to achieve the transmission of 60 W of power over a distance of (8 times the coil diameter) at around 40% **efficiency**. The concept behind resonant inductive coupling systems is that high Q factor resonators exchange energy at a much higher rate than they lose energy due to internal damping. Therefore, by using reson...
305. ...amount of power can be transferred at greater distances, using the much weaker magnetic fields out in the peripheral regions ("tails") of the near fields. Resonant inductive coupling can achieve high **efficiency** at ranges of 4 to 10 times the coil diameter ("D"). This is called "mid-range" transfer, in contrast to the "short range" of nonresonant inductive transfer, which can achieve similar efficiencies onl...
306. ...visioned for this technology is area wireless power coverage. A coil in the wall or ceiling of a room might be able to wirelessly power lights and mobile devices anywhere in the room, with reasonable **efficiency**. An environmental and economic benefit of wirelessly powering small devices such as clocks, radios, music players and remote controls is that it could drastically reduce the 6 billion batteries dispo...
307. ...rb would turn a receiver armature in the underside of the vehicle to charge its batteries. It is claimed that this technique can transfer power over distances of 10 to 15 cm (4 to 6 inches) with high **efficiency**, over 90%. Also, the low frequency stray magnetic fields produced by the rotating magnets produce less electromagnetic interference to nearby electronic devices than the high frequency magnetic field...
308. ...plex in California in 1975 and more recently (1997) at Grand Bassin on Reunion Island. These methods achieve distances on the order of a kilometer. Under experimental conditions, microwave conversion **efficiency** was measured to be around 54% across one meter. A change to 24 GHz has been suggested as microwave emitters similar to LEDs have been made with very high quantum efficiencies using negative resistanc...
309. ...ay come from stray electric or magnetic fields or radio waves from nearby electrical equipment, light, thermal energy (heat), or kinetic energy such as vibration or motion of the device. Although the **efficiency** of conversion is usually low and the power gathered often minuscule (milliwatts or microwatts), it can be adequate to run or recharge small micropower wireless devices such as remote sensors, which a...
310. ...s as pacemakers and artificial hearts. While the early systems used a resonant receiver coil, later systems implemented resonant transmitter coils as well. These medical devices are designed for high **efficiency** using low power electronics while efficiently accommodating some misalignment and dynamic twisting of the coils. The separation between the coils in implantable applications is commonly less than 20...
311. ...s during charging. The Wireless Power Consortium was established in 2008 to develop interoperable standards across manufacturers. Its Qi inductive power standard published in August 2009 enables high **efficiency** charging and powering of portable devices of up to 5 watts over distances of 4 cm (1.6 inches). The wireless device is placed on a flat charger plate (which can be embedded in table tops at cafes, fo...
312. ...transmitter with a 25 cm diameter secondary tuned to 10 MHz to transfer 60 W of power to a similar dual resonance receiver over a distance of (eight times the transmitter coil diameter) at around 40% **efficiency**. In 2008 the team of Greg Leyh and Mike Kennan of Nevada Lightning Lab used a grounded dual resonance transmitter with a 57 cm diameter secondary tuned to 60 kHz and a similar grounded dual resonance...
313. ...he University of Reading, recreated Tesla's 1900 patent 0,645,576 in miniature and demonstrated power transmission over with a coil diameter of at a resonant frequency of 27.50 MHz, with an effective **efficiency** of 60%. A major motivation for microwave research in the 1970s and 1980s was to develop a satellite for space-based solar power. Conceived in 1968 by Peter Glaser, this would harvest energy from sunl...
314. ...xperiments as technical director of a JPL/Raytheon program, Brown demonstrated long-range transmission by beaming 475 W of microwave power to a rectenna a mile away, with a microwave to DC conversion **efficiency** of 54%. At NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, he and Robert Dickinson transmitted 30 kW DC output power across 1.5 km with 2.38 GHz microwaves from a 26 m dish to a 7.3 x 3.5 m rectenna array. The inc...
315. ...pulsion Laboratory, he and Robert Dickinson transmitted 30 kW DC output power across 1.5 km with 2.38 GHz microwaves from a 26 m dish to a 7.3 x 3.5 m rectenna array. The incident-RF to DC conversion **efficiency** of the rectenna was 80%. In 1983 Japan launched Microwave Ionosphere Nonlinear Interaction Experiment (MINIX), a rocket experiment to test transmission of high power microwaves through the ionosphere...
316. ...thin the system. The electrical field strength and the residence time are the key process parameters which affect heat generation. The ideal foods for ohmic heating are viscous with particulates. The **efficiency** by which electricity is converted to heat depends upon on salt, water, and fat content due to their thermal conductivity and resistance factors. In particulate foods, the particles heat up faster tha...
317. ...y, pH, and specific heat of various components in a food matrix can also influence heating rate. Benefits of Ohmic heating include: uniform and rapid heating (>1°Cs), less cooking time, better energy **efficiency**, lower capital cost, and heating simulataneously throughout food's volume as compared to aseptic processing, canning, and PEF. Volumetric heating allows internal heating instead of transferring heat...
318. ...ed produces one joule of heat. In contrast, a heat pump can have a coefficient of more than 1.0 since it moves additional thermal energy from the environment to the heated item. The definition of the **efficiency** of a heating process requires defining the boundaries of the system to be considered. When heating a building, the overall efficiency is different when considering heating effect per unit of electric...
319. ...gy from the environment to the heated item. The definition of the efficiency of a heating process requires defining the boundaries of the system to be considered. When heating a building, the overall **efficiency** is different when considering heating effect per unit of electric energy delivered on the customer's side of the meter, compared to the overall efficiency when also considering the losses in the powe...
320. ...idered. When heating a building, the overall efficiency is different when considering heating effect per unit of electric energy delivered on the customer's side of the meter, compared to the overall **efficiency** when also considering the losses in the power plant and transmission of power. In the energy balance of groundwater flow a hydraulic equivalent of Joule's law is used: formula_27 where: Uncle Fester...
321. ...he glovebox, which is a common technique in hazardous laboratory and process operations in many industries. The gloveboxes are kept under slight negative pressure and the vent gas is filtered in high-**efficiency** filters, which are monitored by radiological instrumentation to ensure they are functioning correctly. A variety of radionuclides occur naturally in the environment. Elements like uranium and thorium...
322. ...ion along with the product. The residual radioactive contamination on the surface is significantly reduced once the strippable coating is removed. Modern strippable coatings show high decontamination **efficiency** and can rival traditional mechanical and chemical decontamination methods. "Decontamination gels" work in much the same way as other strippable coatings. The results obtained through the use of conta...
323. ...a liquid, in order to refuse under shielding to form three-dimensional metal structures. The core benefit of the use of induction heating in this process is significantly greater energy and material **efficiency** as well as a higher degree of safety when compared with other additive manufacturing methods, such as selective laser sintering, which deliver heat to the material using a powerful laser or electron...
324. ...ial using a powerful laser or electron beam. In induction cooking, an induction coil inside the cooktop heats the iron base of cookware by magnetic induction. Using induction cookers produces safety, **efficiency** (the induction cooktop is not heated itself), and speed. Non-ferrous pans such as copper-bottomed pans and aluminium pans are generally unsuitable. By thermal conduction, the heat induced in the base...
325. ...densities in small copper inductors, which can require specialized engineering and "copper-fitting." Induction heating is used in plastic injection molding machines. Induction heating improves energy **efficiency** for injection and extrusion processes. Heat is directly generated in the barrel of the machine, reducing warm-up time and energy consumption. The induction coil can be placed outside thermal insulati...
326. ...ermeability of the workpiece, and formula_6 is the frequency of the AC field in Hz. The AC field can be calculated using the formula formula_7. The equivalent resistance of the workpiece and thus the **efficiency** is a function of the workpiece diameter formula_8 over the reference depth formula_9, increasing rapidly up to about formula_10. Since the workpiece diameter is fixed by the application, the value of...
327. ...ince the cost of induction power supplies increases with frequency, supplies are often optimized to achieve a critical frequency at which formula_10. If operated below the critical frequency, heating **efficiency** is reduced because eddy currents from either side of the workpiece impinge upon one another and cancel out. Increasing the frequency beyond the critical frequency creates minimal further improvement...
328. ...because eddy currents from either side of the workpiece impinge upon one another and cancel out. Increasing the frequency beyond the critical frequency creates minimal further improvement in heating **efficiency**, although it is used in applications that seek to heat treat only the surface of the workpiece. Relative depth varies with temperature because resistivities and permeability vary with temperature. Fo...
329. ...duction from workpiece to fixture, natural convection, and thermal radiation. The induction coil is usually made of copper tubing and fluid coolant. Diameter, shape, and number of turns influence the **efficiency** and field pattern. The furnace consists of a circular hearth that contains the charge to be melted in the form of a ring. The metal ring is large in diameter and is magnetically interlinked with an e...
330. ...diodes). Due to the logarithmic shape of diode V-I curves, the voltage across the diode changes only slightly due to changes in current drawn or changes in the input. When precise voltage control and **efficiency** are not important, this design may be fine. Since the forward voltage of a diode is small, this kind of voltage regulator is only suitable for low voltage regulated output. When higher voltage output...
331. ...gher from half to full load. Because it regenerates an output voltage waveform, output distortion, which is typically less than 4%, is independent of any input voltage distortion, including notching. **Efficiency** at full load is typically in the range of 89% to 93%. However, at low loads, efficiency can drop below 60%. The current-limiting capability also becomes a handicap when a CVT is used in an applicatio...
332. ...istortion, which is typically less than 4%, is independent of any input voltage distortion, including notching. Efficiency at full load is typically in the range of 89% to 93%. However, at low loads, **efficiency** can drop below 60%. The current-limiting capability also becomes a handicap when a CVT is used in an application with moderate to high inrush current, like motors, transformers or magnets. In this ca...
333. ...ication with moderate to high inrush current, like motors, transformers or magnets. In this case, the CVT has to be sized to accommodate the peak current, thus forcing it to run at low loads and poor **efficiency**. Minimum maintenance is required, as transformers and capacitors can be very reliable. Some units have included redundant capacitors to allow several capacitors to fail between inspections without an...
334. ...similar feedback mechanism as in a linear regulator. Because the series element is either fully conducting, or switched off, it dissipates almost no power; this is what gives the switching design its **efficiency**. Switching regulators are also able to generate output voltages which are higher than the input, or of opposite polarity—something not possible with a linear design. In switched regulators, the pass...
335. ...used as a "controlled switch" and is operated at either cutoff or saturated state. Hence the power transmitted across the pass device is in discrete pulses rather than a steady current flow. Greater **efficiency** is achieved since the pass device is operated as a low impedance switch. When the pass device is at cutoff, there is no current and it dissipates no power. Again when the pass device is in saturation...
336. ...small amount of average power, providing maximum current to the load. In either case, the power wasted in the pass device is very little and almost all the power is transmitted to the load. Thus the **efficiency** of a switched-mode power supply is remarkably high-in the range of 70–90%. Switched mode regulators rely on pulse-width modulation to control the average value of the output voltage. The average valu...
337. ...ith short circuit current limiting and thermal overload protection. Switching regulators are more prone to output noise and instability than linear regulators. However, they provide much better power **efficiency** than linear regulators.  Regulators powered from AC power circuits can use silicon controlled rectifiers (SCRs) as the series device. Whenever the output voltage is below the desired value, the SCR i...
338. ...esigner must choose a minimum voltage that can be tolerated across "R", bearing in mind that the higher this voltage requirement is, the higher the required input voltage "U", and hence the lower the **efficiency** of the regulator. On the other hand, lower values of "R" lead to higher power dissipation in the diode and to inferior regulator characteristics. "R" is given by where The stability of the output vol...
339. ...high longevity due to minimal friction and an even distribution of weight. Most last for at least 50 years and require little maintenance during this time. Maglev trains are promoted for their energy **efficiency** since they run on electricity, which can be produced by coal, nuclear, hydro, fusion, wind or solar power without requiring oil. On average most trains travel 483 km/h (300 mph) and use 0.4 megajoule...
340. ...multiple semiconductors resulted in Nobel Prizes for Zhores Alferov and Herbert Kroemer in 2000. The theory surrounding quantum well devices has led to significant advancements in the production and **efficiency** of many modern components such as light-emitting diodes, transistors for example. Today, such devices are ubiquitous in modern cell phones, computers, and many other computing devices. Quantum wells...
341. ...ice delivered output power of about 0.18 W/cm for a temperature difference of 1 K, nearly double the power of a quantum dot energy harvester. The extra degrees of freedom allowed larger currents. Its **efficiency** is slightly lower than the quantum dot energy harvesters. Quantum wells transmit electrons of any energy above a certain level, while quantum dots pass only electrons of a specific energy. One possib...
342. ...convert waste heat from electric circuits, e.g., in computer chips, back into electricity, reducing the need for cooling and energy to power the chip. Quantum wells have been proposed to increase the **efficiency** of solar cells. The theoretical maximum efficiency of traditional single-junction cells is about 34%, due in large part to their inability to capture many different wavelengths of light. Multi-juncti...
343. ...computer chips, back into electricity, reducing the need for cooling and energy to power the chip. Quantum wells have been proposed to increase the efficiency of solar cells. The theoretical maximum **efficiency** of traditional single-junction cells is about 34%, due in large part to their inability to capture many different wavelengths of light. Multi-junction solar cells, which consist of multiple p-n junct...
344. ...their inability to capture many different wavelengths of light. Multi-junction solar cells, which consist of multiple p-n junctions of different bandgaps connected in series, increase the theoretical **efficiency** by broadening the range of absorbed wavelengths, but their complexity and manufacturing cost limit their use to niche applications. On the other hand, cells consisting of a p–i–n junction in which th...
345. ...ions. On the other hand, cells consisting of a p–i–n junction in which the intrinsic region contains one or more quantum wells, lead to an increased photocurrent over dark current, resulting in a net **efficiency** increase over conventional p–n cells. Photons of energy within the well depth are absorbed in the wells and generate electron–hole pairs. In room temperature conditions, these photo-generated carrier...
346. ...oth the Current and Voltage, designing a solar cell is always a trade-off between maximizing current output with a low bandgap and voltage output with a high bandgap. The maximum theoretical limit of **efficiency** for conventional solar cells is determined to be only 31%, with the best silicon devices achieving an optimal limit of 25%. With the introduction of quantum wells (QWs), the efficiency limit of singl...
347. ...tical limit of efficiency for conventional solar cells is determined to be only 31%, with the best silicon devices achieving an optimal limit of 25%. With the introduction of quantum wells (QWs), the **efficiency** limit of single-junction strained QW silicon devices have increased to 28.3%. The increase is due to the bandgap of the barrier material determining the built-in voltage. Whereas the bandgap of the Q...
348. ...the bandgap of the QWs is now what determines the absorption limit. With their experiments on p–i–n junction photodiodes, Barnham's group showed that placing QWs in the depleted region increases the **efficiency** of a device. Researchers infer that the resulting increase indicates that the generation of new carriers and photocurrent due to the inclusion of lower energies in the absorption spectrum outweighs t...
349. ...tocurrent increase is directly related to the redshift of the absorption spectrum. Nowadays, among non-QW solar cells, the III/V multi-junction solar cells are the most efficient, recording a maximum **efficiency** of 46% under high sunlight concentrations. Multi-junction solar cells are created by stacking multiple p-i-n junctions of different bandgaps. The efficiency of the solar cell increases with the inclu...
350. ...re the most efficient, recording a maximum efficiency of 46% under high sunlight concentrations. Multi-junction solar cells are created by stacking multiple p-i-n junctions of different bandgaps. The **efficiency** of the solar cell increases with the inclusion of more of the solar radiation in the absorption spectrum by introducing more QWs of different bandgaps. The direct relation between the bandgap and lat...
351. ...alternate approach to multi-junction solar cells with minimal crystal dislocation. Researchers are looking to use QWs to grow high-quality material with minimal crystal dislocations and increase the **efficiency** of light absorption and carrier collection to realize higher efficiency QW solar cells. Bandgap tunability helps researchers with designing their solar cells. We can estimate the effective bandgap as...
352. ...islocation. Researchers are looking to use QWs to grow high-quality material with minimal crystal dislocations and increase the efficiency of light absorption and carrier collection to realize higher **efficiency** QW solar cells. Bandgap tunability helps researchers with designing their solar cells. We can estimate the effective bandgap as the function of the bandgap energy of the QW and the shift in bandgap e...
353. ...ate the quantum states, and Anderson's rule is applied to estimate the conduction band and valence band offsets in energy.  With the effective use of carriers in the QWs, researchers can increase the **efficiency** of quantum well solar cells (QWSCs). Within QWs in the intrinsic region of the p-i-n solar cells, optically generated carriers are either collected by the built-in field or lost due to carrier recomb...
354. ...scape probability over a 100 QWs to 0.9918. Indicating that using thin-barriers is essential for more efficient carrier collection. In the 1.1–1.3 eV range, Sayed et al. compares the external quantum **efficiency** (EQE) of a metamorphic InGaAs bulk subcell on Ge substrates by Spectrolab to a 100-period InGaAs(3.5 nm)/GaAs(2.7 nm)/ GaAsP(3.0 nm) QWSC by Fuji et al. The bulk material shows higher EQE values than...
355. ...on in the spectrum. Furthermore, they can be grown in lower temperatures preventing thermal degradation. The application of quantum wells in many devices is a viable solution to increasing the energy **efficiency** of such devices. With lasers, the improvement has already lead to significant results like the LED. With QWSCs harvesting energy from the sun become a more potent method of cultivating energy by bein...
356. ...s has been partially driven by massive Chinese government investment in developing solar production capacity since 2000, and achieving economies of scale. Improvements in manufacturing technology and **efficiency** have also led to decreasing costs. Net metering and financial incentives, such as preferential feed-in tariffs for solar-generated electricity, have supported solar PV installations in many countries...
357. ...nominal power (P, measured in W), open-circuit voltage (V), short-circuit current (I, measured in amperes), maximum power voltage (V), maximum power current (I), peak power (watt-peak, W), and module **efficiency** (%). Open-circuit voltage or V is the maximum voltage the module can produce when not connected to an electrical circuit or system. V can be measured with a voltmeter directly on an illuminated modul...
358. ...output under standard test conditions (not the maximum possible output). Typical modules, which could measure approximately , will be rated from as low as 75 W to as high as 600 W, depending on their **efficiency**. At the time of testing, the test modules are binned according to their test results, and a typical manufacturer might rate their modules in 5 W increments, and either rate them at +/- 3%, +/-5%, +3/...
359. ...back time. The lower the EPBT, the lower the environmental cost of solar power. The EPBT depends vastly on the location where the PV system is installed (e.g. the amount of sunlight available and the **efficiency** of the electrical grid) and on the type of system, namely the system's components. A 2015 review of EPBT estimates of first and second-generation PV suggested that there was greater variation in embe...
360. ...rid) and on the type of system, namely the system's components. A 2015 review of EPBT estimates of first and second-generation PV suggested that there was greater variation in embedded energy than in **efficiency** of the cells implying that it was mainly the embedded energy that needs to reduce to have a greater reduction in EPBT. In general, the most important component of solar panels, which accounts for muc...
361. ...st. Crystalline silicon modules are the most extensively studied PV type in terms of LCA since they are the most commonly used. Mono-crystalline silicon photovoltaic systems (mono-si) have an average **efficiency** of 14.0%. The cells tend to follow a structure of front electrode, anti-reflection film, n-layer, p-layer, and back electrode, with the sun hitting the front electrode. EPBT ranges from 1.7 to 2.7 ye...
362. ...of the fastest-growing thin film based solar cells which are collectively known as second-generation devices. This new thin-film device also shares similar performance restrictions (Shockley-Queisser **efficiency** limit) as conventional Si devices but promises to lower the cost of each device by both reducing material and energy consumption during manufacturing. The global market share of CdTe was 4.7% in 2008...
363. ...es to lower the cost of each device by both reducing material and energy consumption during manufacturing. The global market share of CdTe was 4.7% in 2008. This technology's highest power conversion **efficiency** is 21%. The cell structure includes glass substrate (around 2 mm), transparent conductor layer, CdS buffer layer (50–150 nm), CdTe absorber and a metal contact layer. CdTe PV systems require less ene...
364. ...in the field. Reported global warming potential impacts of CIGS ranges 20.5–58.8 grams CO-eq/kWh of electricity generated for different solar irradiation (1,700 to 2,200 kWh/m/y) and power conversion **efficiency** (7.8 – 9.12%). EPBT ranges from 0.2 to 1.4 years, while harmonized value of EPBT was found 1.393 years. Toxicity is an issue within the buffer layer of CIGS modules because it contains cadmium and ga...
365. ...le with TMBY (4,4',6,6'-tetramethyl-2,2'bipyridine). DSCs show great performance with artificial and indoor light. From a range of 200 lux to 2,000 lux, these cells operate at conditions of a maximum **efficiency** of 29.7%. However, there have been issues with DSCs, many of which come from the liquid electrolyte. The solvent is hazardous, and will permeate most plastics. Because it is liquid, it is unstable to...
366. ...n, leading to freezing in cold temperatures and expansion in warm temperatures causing failure. Another disadvantage is that the solar cell is not ideal for large scale application because of its low **efficiency**. Some of the benefits for DSC is that it can be used in a variety of light levels (including cloudy conditions), it has a low production cost, and it does not degrade under sunlight, giving it a long...
367. ...ure PV technologies include organic, dye-sensitized and quantum-dot photovoltaics. Organic photovoltaics (OPVs) fall into the thin-film category of manufacturing, and typically operate around the 12% **efficiency** range which is lower than the 12–21% typically seen by silicon-based PVs. Because organic photovoltaics require very high purity and are relatively reactive they must be encapsulated which vastly inc...
368. ...urity and are relatively reactive they must be encapsulated which vastly increases the cost of manufacturing and means that they are not feasible for large scale-up. Dye-sensitized PVs are similar in **efficiency** to OPVs but are significantly easier to manufacture. However, these dye-sensitized photovoltaics present storage problems because the liquid electrolyte is toxic and can potentially permeate the plas...
369. ...electrolyte is toxic and can potentially permeate the plastics used in the cell. Quantum dot solar cells are solution-processed, meaning they are potentially scalable, but currently they peak at 12% **efficiency**. Organic and polymer photovoltaic (OPV) are a relatively new area of research. The tradition OPV cell structure layers consist of a semi-transparent electrode, electron blocking layer, tunnel junctio...
370. ...eratures using only ambient processing conditions on simple printing equipment enabling energy pay-back times". Current efficiencies range 1–6.5%, however theoretical analyses show promise beyond 10% **efficiency**. Many different configurations of OPV exist using different materials for each layer. OPV technology rivals existing PV technologies in terms of EPBT even if they currently present a shorter operatio...
371. ...ach layer. OPV technology rivals existing PV technologies in terms of EPBT even if they currently present a shorter operational lifetime. A 2013 study analyzed 12 different configurations all with 2% **efficiency**, the EPBT ranged from 0.29 to 0.52 years for 1 m of PV. The average CO-eq/kWh for OPV is 54.922 grams. A number of solar modules may also be mounted vertically above each other in a tower, if the zen...
372. ...panels onto 130 pontoons and floating them on the winery's irrigation pond. A benefit of the set up is that the panels are kept at a lower temperature than they would be on land, leading to a higher **efficiency** of solar energy conversion. The floating panels also reduce the amount of water lost through evaporation and inhibit the growth of algae. Concentrator photovoltaics is a technology that contrary to c...
373. ...ystems uses lenses and curved mirrors to focus sunlight onto small, but highly efficient, multi-junction solar cells. These systems sometimes use solar trackers and a cooling system to increase their **efficiency**. In 2019, the world record for solar cell efficiency at 47.1% was achieved by using multi-junction concentrator solar cells, developed at National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Colorado, US. The highe...
374. ...ht onto small, but highly efficient, multi-junction solar cells. These systems sometimes use solar trackers and a cooling system to increase their efficiency. In 2019, the world record for solar cell **efficiency** at 47.1% was achieved by using multi-junction concentrator solar cells, developed at National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Colorado, US. The highest efficiencies achieved without concentration includ...
375. ...on at 35.8% using a proprietary triple-junction manufacturing technology in 2009, and Boeing Spectrolab (40.7% also using a triple-layer design). There is an ongoing effort to increase the conversion **efficiency** of PV cells and modules, primarily for competitive advantage. In order to increase the efficiency of solar cells, it is important to choose a semiconductor material with an appropriate band gap that...
376. ...rolab (40.7% also using a triple-layer design). There is an ongoing effort to increase the conversion efficiency of PV cells and modules, primarily for competitive advantage. In order to increase the **efficiency** of solar cells, it is important to choose a semiconductor material with an appropriate band gap that matches the solar spectrum. This will enhance the electrical and optical properties. Improving the...
377. ...rial with an appropriate band gap that matches the solar spectrum. This will enhance the electrical and optical properties. Improving the method of charge collection is also useful for increasing the **efficiency**. There are several groups of materials that are being developed. Ultrahigh-efficiency devices (η>30%) are made by using GaAs and GaInP2 semiconductors with multijunction tandem cells. High-quality, s...
378. ...he electrical and optical properties. Improving the method of charge collection is also useful for increasing the efficiency. There are several groups of materials that are being developed. Ultrahigh-**efficiency** devices (η>30%) are made by using GaAs and GaInP2 semiconductors with multijunction tandem cells. High-quality, single-crystal silicon materials are used to achieve high-efficiency, low cost cells (η...
379. ...veloped. Ultrahigh-efficiency devices (η>30%) are made by using GaAs and GaInP2 semiconductors with multijunction tandem cells. High-quality, single-crystal silicon materials are used to achieve high-**efficiency**, low cost cells (η>20%). Recent developments in organic photovoltaic cells (OPVs) have made significant advancements in power conversion efficiency from 3% to over 15% since their introduction in the...
380. ...-crystal silicon materials are used to achieve high-efficiency, low cost cells (η>20%). Recent developments in organic photovoltaic cells (OPVs) have made significant advancements in power conversion **efficiency** from 3% to over 15% since their introduction in the 1980s. To date, the highest reported power conversion efficiency ranges 6.7–8.94% for small molecule, 8.4–10.6% for polymer OPVs, and 7–21% for per...
381. ...c photovoltaic cells (OPVs) have made significant advancements in power conversion efficiency from 3% to over 15% since their introduction in the 1980s. To date, the highest reported power conversion **efficiency** ranges 6.7–8.94% for small molecule, 8.4–10.6% for polymer OPVs, and 7–21% for perovskite OPVs. OPVs are expected to play a major role in the PV market. Recent improvements have increased the efficie...
382. ...iciency ranges 6.7–8.94% for small molecule, 8.4–10.6% for polymer OPVs, and 7–21% for perovskite OPVs. OPVs are expected to play a major role in the PV market. Recent improvements have increased the **efficiency** and lowered cost, while remaining environmentally-benign and renewable. Several companies have begun embedding power optimizers into PV modules called smart modules. These modules perform maximum pow...
383. ...across a section of a module causes the electrical output of one or more strings of cells in the module to decrease. One of the major causes for the decreased performance of cells is overheating. The **efficiency** of a solar cell declines by about 0.5% for every 1 degree Celsius increase in temperature. This means that a 100 degree increase in surface temperature could decrease the efficiency of a solar cell b...
384. ...overheating. The efficiency of a solar cell declines by about 0.5% for every 1 degree Celsius increase in temperature. This means that a 100 degree increase in surface temperature could decrease the **efficiency** of a solar cell by about half. Self-cooling solar cells are one solution to this problem. Rather than using energy to cool the surface, pyramid and cone shapes can be formed from silica, and attached...
385. ...ed to fossil and nuclear energy sources, very little research money has been invested in the development of solar cells, so there is considerable room for improvement. Nevertheless, experimental high **efficiency** solar cells already have efficiencies of over 40% in case of concentrating photovoltaic cells and efficiencies are rapidly rising while mass-production costs are rapidly falling. In some states of th...
386. ...tial communities. Overall, energy investment is largely an economic decision and it is better to make investment decisions based on systematic evaluation of options in operational improvement, energy **efficiency**, onsite generation and energy storage. Electrostatic levitation Electrostatic levitation is the process of using an electric field to levitate a charged object and counteract the effects of gravity....
387. ...g. Equipment is generally rated by the power it will deliver, for example, at the shaft of an electric or hydraulic motor. The power input to the equipment will be greater owing to the less than 100% **efficiency** of the device. Efficiency of a device is often defined as the ratio of output power to the sum of output power and losses. In some types of equipment, it is possible to measure or calculate losses di...
388. ...rated by the power it will deliver, for example, at the shaft of an electric or hydraulic motor. The power input to the equipment will be greater owing to the less than 100% efficiency of the device. **Efficiency** of a device is often defined as the ratio of output power to the sum of output power and losses. In some types of equipment, it is possible to measure or calculate losses directly. This allows effici...
389. ...ciency of a device is often defined as the ratio of output power to the sum of output power and losses. In some types of equipment, it is possible to measure or calculate losses directly. This allows **efficiency** to be calculated with greater precision than the quotient of input power over output power, where relatively small measurement uncertainty will greatly affect the resulting calculated efficiency. In...
390. ...lows efficiency to be calculated with greater precision than the quotient of input power over output power, where relatively small measurement uncertainty will greatly affect the resulting calculated **efficiency**. In devices that primarily convert between different forms of electric power, such as transformers, or transport it from one location to another, such as transmission lines, the power rating almost a...
391. ..."W"; this format is colloquial as it is outside the standard by adding suffixes to standardized units. The nominal power divided by the light power that falls on the module (area x 1000 W/m) is the "**efficiency**". Mary Marvel Mary Marvel (also known as Lady Shazam and Mary Shazam) is a fictional character and superheroine originally published by Fawcett Comics and now owned by DC Comics. Created by Otto Bind...
392. ...e must be very large (in the limit as the resistance and the voltage go to infinity, the current source will become ideal and the current will not depend at all on the voltage across the load). Thus, **efficiency** is low (due to power loss in the resistor) and it is usually impractical to construct a 'good' current source this way. Nonetheless, it is often the case that such a circuit will provide adequate per...
393. ...king" (MPPT) to get the maximum possible power from the PV array. Solar cells have a complex relationship between solar irradiation, temperature and total resistance that produces a non-linear output **efficiency** known as the "I-V curve". It is the purpose of the MPPT system to sample the output of the cells and determine a resistance (load) to obtain maximum power for any given environmental conditions. The...
394. ...g from one to the other purely on a timer. At any given instant two of the three wires will have a positive (or negative) voltage and using the one closer to the DC side will take advantage of slight **efficiency** improvements in the conversion hardware. The reduction, or outright elimination, of energy storage requirements, simplifies the device and eliminates the one component that is expected to define its...
395. ...s by major microinverter and DC optimizer companies show small yearly gains in light, medium and heavy shaded conditions – 2%, 5% and 8% respectively – over an older string inverter Additionally, the **efficiency** of a panel's output is strongly affected by the load the inverter places on it. To maximize production, inverters use a technique called maximum power point tracking to ensure optimal energy harvest...
396. ...ers, the eventual wear out or premature device failures will introduce potential damage to the roof tiles or shingles, property damage and other nuisances. While microinverters generally have a lower **efficiency** than string inverters, the overall efficiency is increased due to the fact that every inverter / panel unit acts independently. In a string configuration, when a panel on a string is shaded, the outp...
397. ...failures will introduce potential damage to the roof tiles or shingles, property damage and other nuisances. While microinverters generally have a lower efficiency than string inverters, the overall **efficiency** is increased due to the fact that every inverter / panel unit acts independently. In a string configuration, when a panel on a string is shaded, the output of the entire string of panels is reduced t...
398. ...operate on three phase systems require much less storage. A three-phase micro using zero-voltage switching can also offer higher circuit density and lower cost components, while improving conversion **efficiency** to over 98%, better than the typical one-phase peak around 96%. Three-phase systems, however, are generally only seen in industrial and commercial settings. These markets normally install larger arra...
399. ...a microinverter in the form of an AC adapter that allows panels to be connected simply by plugging them into any wall socket. In 1995, OKE-Services designed a new high-frequency version with improved **efficiency**, which was introduced commercially as the OK4-100 in 1995 by NKF Kabel, and re-branded for US sales as the Trace Microsine. A new version, the OK4All, improved efficiency and had wider operating rang...
400. ...quency version with improved efficiency, which was introduced commercially as the OK4-100 in 1995 by NKF Kabel, and re-branded for US sales as the Trace Microsine. A new version, the OK4All, improved **efficiency** and had wider operating ranges. In spite of this promising start, by 2003 most of these projects had ended. Ascension Technology was purchased by Applied Power Corporation, a large integrator. APC wa...
401. ...tnered with microinverter companies to produce and sell AC solar panels include BenQ, Canadian Solar, LG, NESL, SunPower, Sharp Solar, Suntech, Siemens, Trina Solar and Qcells. As of 2019, conversion **efficiency** for state-of-the-art solar converters reached more than 98 percent. While string inverters are used in residential to medium-sized commercial PV systems, central inverters cover the large commercial...
402. ...e S1 in Beijing in 2017. In April 2020 a new model capable of and compatible with the Changsha line completed testing. The vehicle, under development since 2018, has a 30 percent increase in traction **efficiency** and a 60 percent increase in speed over the stock in use on the line since. The vehicles entered service in July 2021 with a top speed of . CRRC Zhuzhou Locomotive said in April 2020 it is developing...
403. ...reased to the point where the magnets would be unreasonably large. In practice, this problem was addressed through improved feedback systems, which support the required tolerances. Air gap and energy **efficiency** can be improved by using the socalled "Hybrid Electromagnetic Suspension (H-EMS)", where the main levitation force is generated by permanent magnets, while the electromagnet controls the air gap, wha...
404. ...y the Swissmetro system and the Hyperloop) propose the use of vactrains—maglev train technology used in evacuated (airless) tubes, which removes air drag. This has the potential to increase speed and **efficiency** greatly, as most of the energy for conventional maglev trains is lost to aerodynamic drag. One potential risk for passengers of trains operating in evacuated tubes is that they could be exposed to th...
405. ...e Philosophical Magazine. Hall effect sensors use his "Hall effect" to detect the magnetic field. Hundreds of millions are sold every year and are present in a large number of devices, including high **efficiency** electric propulsion systems on spacecraft. In the presence of large magnetic field strength and low temperature, one can observe the quantum Hall effect, the quantization of the Hall resistance and i...
406. ...discharge emitters with spectral quality competing with incandescent emitters. Prior to that, the unpleasant color of the emitted light made these lamps unfit for daily use, despite their much higher **efficiency**. He co-founded a company that worked on developing inert gas-glowing cathode rectifiers, and subsequently in the 1930s worked as an independent inventor for companies such as Osram and Philips. After...
407. ...awson's criteria in the experiment. The central concept of the Lawson criterion is an examination of the energy balance for any fusion power plant using a hot plasma. This is shown below: Net power = **Efficiency** × (Fusion − Radiation loss − Conduction loss) Lawson calculated the fusion rate by assuming that the fusion reactor contains a hot plasma cloud which has a Gaussian curve of individual particle energ...
408. ...rization to each other, but are orthogonal to the pump polarization, it is Type-I SPDC; and if the signal and idler photons have perpendicular polarizations, it is deemed Type II SPDC. The conversion **efficiency** of SPDC is typically very low, with the highest efficiency obtained on the order of 4x10 incoming photons for PPLN in waveguides. However, if one half of the pair is detected at any time then its par...
409. ...rization, it is Type-I SPDC; and if the signal and idler photons have perpendicular polarizations, it is deemed Type II SPDC. The conversion efficiency of SPDC is typically very low, with the highest **efficiency** obtained on the order of 4x10 incoming photons for PPLN in waveguides. However, if one half of the pair is detected at any time then its partner is known to be present. The degenerate portion of the...
410. ...sistors, and IC power supply pin filtering. Shielding is usually a last resort after other techniques have failed, because of the added expense of shielding components such as conductive gaskets. The **efficiency** of the radiation depends on the height above the ground plane or power plane (at RF, one is as good as the other) and the length of the conductor in relation to the wavelength of the signal component...
411. ...tutes. Its research priorities include photovoltaics, fuel cells, and hydrogen as an energy carrier, research into batteries and new methods of energy storage, as well as processes for increasing the **efficiency** of fossil energy. In the context of the feasibility of the energy transition, Forschungszentrum Jülich explores and models energy systems. With its materials research, the institute is also involved...
412. ...laser, or by reducing the air pressure within the gap. The charging resistors, Rc, need to be properly sized for both charging and discharging. They are sometimes replaced with inductors for improved **efficiency** and faster charging. In many generators the resistors are made from plastic or glass tubing filled with dilute copper sulfate solution. These liquid resistors overcome many of the problems experience...
413. ...d low radiation resistance (often below 1 ohm), so these transmitters required enormous wire umbrella and flattop antennas up to several miles long with large capacitive toploads, to achieve adequate **efficiency**. The antenna required a large loading coil at the base, 6 – 10 feet tall, to make it resonant with the transmitter. Although their damping had been reduced as much as possible, spark transmitters sti...
414. ...reby lowering the losses in the material, but at the expense of a reduced piezoelectric constant. One of the commonly studied chemical composition is . The increased piezoelectric response and poling **efficiency** near to "x" = 0.52 is due to the increased number of allowable domain states at the MPB. At this boundary, the 6 possible domain states from the tetragonal phase ⟨100⟩ and the 8 possible domain state...
415. ...he combination of high-density 2DEG and 2DHG on the same semiconductor platform makes it a potential candidate for CMOS devices. Aluminum oxide ceramics facilitate polymerization reactions, enhancing **efficiency** and consistency in creating plastics and resins. They are also used in microwave applications as a substrate and heat sink. More researchers are examining the production of light-emitting diodes(LEDs...
416. ...formula_33, where formula_34 is the ratio of the intensities of the red to blue formula_32 sidebands. In practice, this process is normally done on the first motional sideband formula_36 for optimal **efficiency**. Repeating the processes many times while ensuring that spontaneous emission occurs provides cooling to formula_37. More rigorous mathematical treatment is given in Turchette et al. and Wineland et a...
417. ...Diedrich et al. with the caveat that the narrow quadrupole transition used for cooling connects the ground state to a long-lived state, and the latter had to be pumped out to achieve optimal cooling **efficiency**. It is not uncommon, however, that additional steps are needed in the process, due to the atomic structure of the cooled species. Examples of that are the cooling of ions and the Raman sideband cooli...
418. ...rode plasma. The resulting current, typically several amperes per square centimeter of emitter surface, delivers electrical power to a load at a typical potential difference of 0.5–1 volt and thermal **efficiency** of 5–20%, depending on the emitter temperature (1500–2000 K) and mode of operation. After the first demonstration of the practical arc-mode caesium vapor thermionic converter by V. Wilson in 1957, se...
419. ...etermines both the surface and plasma properties. Caesium is employed because it is the most easily ionized of all stable elements. A thermionic generator is like a cyclic heat engine and its maximum **efficiency** is limited by Carnot's law. It is a low-Voltage high current device where current densities of 25–50 (A/squarecm) have been achieved at voltage from 1–2V. The energy of high temperature gases can be...
420. ...ng work function from 1.5 eV to 1.0 – 0.7 eV. Due to long-lived nature of Rydberg matter this low work function remains low for a long time which essentially increases the low-temperature converter’s **efficiency**. Surge (Marvel Comics) Surge (Noriko "Nori" Ashida) is a superhero appearing in the American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is depicted as a mutant, a member of the student bod...
421. ...voltage and steps up the current. This large current flowing through the base of the pot produces heat through Joule heating; the hot pot then in turn heats its contents by heat conduction. For high **efficiency** there should be as little electrical resistance in the coil and as much as possible in the pan so that most of the heat is developed in the pan. At the frequencies typically used in induction cooking...
422. ...y, increased skin effect in the cookware results in more efficient coupling, which is one of the factors making ferrous materials preferable. Induction cooking provides fast heating, improved thermal **efficiency**, and more consistent heating than cooking by thermal conduction. Generally, the higher the power rating, the faster the cooking time. Induction cooktop power ratings are generally quoted for power de...
423. ...sistance in the pan relatively high, efficiently heating the pan.  However, for non ferrous metals, such as aluminum, the skin depth in the pans with typical induction cooktops is too large, and thus **efficiency** with a standard induction cooker is poor: the resistive heating in the coil and pan are similar. This could damage the cooktop, which detects it and rejects the pan. The heat that can be produced in...
424. ...thickness is less than the skin depth, the actual thickness can be used to calculate surface resistance. For some materials, the thickness of a cooking pot can be less than the skin depth, increasing **efficiency**. For example, typical titanium camping cookware has a thickness (typically around 0.5 mm) around 4 times less than its skin depth at 24 kHz, increasing its efficiency by that factor compared to thick...
425. ...than the skin depth, increasing efficiency. For example, typical titanium camping cookware has a thickness (typically around 0.5 mm) around 4 times less than its skin depth at 24 kHz, increasing its **efficiency** by that factor compared to thick titanium. Less practically, a piece of aluminium foil is typically around 35 times thinner than aluminium's skin depth, so will heat efficiently (and melt quickly). T...
426. ...nd copper pots and pans. In 2017 Panasonic released a single-burner counter top "all metal" unit, using their trade name "Met-All", aimed at commercial kitchens. The 2014 ACEEE Summer Study on Energy **Efficiency** in Buildings concluded that "induction cooking is not always the most efficient method of cooking. When tested with a large cooking vessel, the efficiency of conventional electric technology was meas...
427. ...chens. The 2014 ACEEE Summer Study on Energy Efficiency in Buildings concluded that "induction cooking is not always the most efficient method of cooking. When tested with a large cooking vessel, the **efficiency** of conventional electric technology was measured to be higher (83%) than that of induction cooking (77%). Yet the efficiency of conventional cooking appliances was shown to be highly dependent on the...
428. ...efficient method of cooking. When tested with a large cooking vessel, the efficiency of conventional electric technology was measured to be higher (83%) than that of induction cooking (77%). Yet the **efficiency** of conventional cooking appliances was shown to be highly dependent on the size of the cooking vessel." Cooking methods that use flames or hot heating elements have a significantly higher loss to the...
429. ...s blown through the electronics beneath the surface but it is only slightly warm. The purpose of a cooktop is to prepare food; for example, long periods of simmering may be required. Published energy **efficiency** measurements concentrate on the ability of a cooktop to transfer energy to a metal test block, which is easier to repeatably measure. Energy transfer efficiency, as defined by U.S. Department of Ener...
430. ...ring may be required. Published energy efficiency measurements concentrate on the ability of a cooktop to transfer energy to a metal test block, which is easier to repeatably measure. Energy transfer **efficiency**, as defined by U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), is the percentage of the energy consumed by a cooker that, at the end of a simulated cooking cycle has been transferred as heat to a standardized alumi...
431. ...power is immediately reduced to 25% ± 5% of its maximum power. After 15 minutes of operation at this lower power setting, the cooktop is turned off and the heat energy in the test block is measured. **Efficiency** is given by the ratio between energy in the block and input (electric) energy. Such a test, using two power levels, is intended to mimic real life use. Wasted energy terms such as residual unused hea...
432. ...has occurred, all the subsequent energy input is delivered to the air as loss through steam or convection and radiation. Without an increase in food temperature, the DOE test procedure would find the **efficiency** to be zero. Cooking procedures such as reduction of a sauce, braising meat, simmering, and so on are significant uses of a cooker, but efficiency of these practices is not modelled by the procedure....
433. ...od temperature, the DOE test procedure would find the efficiency to be zero. Cooking procedures such as reduction of a sauce, braising meat, simmering, and so on are significant uses of a cooker, but **efficiency** of these practices is not modelled by the procedure. In 2013 and 2014 DOE developed and proposed new test procedures to allow direct comparison of energy transfer efficiency among induction, electric...
434. ...ant uses of a cooker, but efficiency of these practices is not modelled by the procedure. In 2013 and 2014 DOE developed and proposed new test procedures to allow direct comparison of energy transfer **efficiency** among induction, electric resistance, and gas cooking tops and ranges. The procedures use a new hybrid test block made of aluminum and stainless steel. The proposed rule lists results of real lab tes...
435. ...ing elements the following efficiencies were measured with ±0.5% repeatability: 70.7% - 73.6% for induction, 71.9% for electric coil, 43.9% for gas. DOE affirmed that "induction units have an average **efficiency** of 72.2%, not significantly higher than the 69.9% efficiency of smooth—electric resistance units, or the 71.2% of electric coil units". DOE noted that the 84% induction efficiency, cited in previous...
436. ....5% repeatability: 70.7% - 73.6% for induction, 71.9% for electric coil, 43.9% for gas. DOE affirmed that "induction units have an average efficiency of 72.2%, not significantly higher than the 69.9% **efficiency** of smooth—electric resistance units, or the 71.2% of electric coil units". DOE noted that the 84% induction efficiency, cited in previous Technical Support Documents, was not measured by DOE laborato...
437. ...its have an average efficiency of 72.2%, not significantly higher than the 69.9% efficiency of smooth—electric resistance units, or the 71.2% of electric coil units". DOE noted that the 84% induction **efficiency**, cited in previous Technical Support Documents, was not measured by DOE laboratories, but just "referenced from an external test study" performed in 1992. Independent manufacturers tests and other su...
438. ...l induction cooking efficiencies usually stay between 74% and 77% and occasionally reach 81% (although these tests may follow different procedures). These tests suggest that the 84% induction average **efficiency** reference value should be taken with caution. For comparison and in agreement with DOE findings, cooking with gas has an average energy efficiency of about 40%. It can be raised only by using special...
439. .... These tests suggest that the 84% induction average efficiency reference value should be taken with caution. For comparison and in agreement with DOE findings, cooking with gas has an average energy **efficiency** of about 40%. It can be raised only by using special pots with fins. When comparing with gas, the relative cost of electrical and gas energy, and the efficiency of electricity generation affect overa...
440. ...cooking with gas has an average energy efficiency of about 40%. It can be raised only by using special pots with fins. When comparing with gas, the relative cost of electrical and gas energy, and the **efficiency** of electricity generation affect overall environmental efficiency and user cost. The pan is insulated by the cooking surface, and voltages generated in the pan are far too low to represent a shock ha...
441. ...can be raised only by using special pots with fins. When comparing with gas, the relative cost of electrical and gas energy, and the efficiency of electricity generation affect overall environmental **efficiency** and user cost. The pan is insulated by the cooking surface, and voltages generated in the pan are far too low to represent a shock hazard. The cooktop can detect whether cookware is present by monito...
442. ...Subrata Roy at the University of Florida in the early part of the twenty-first century. The propulsion system employed many innovations, including the use of magnetic fields to enhance the ionisation **efficiency**. A model with an external supply achieved minimal lift-off and hover. Twenty-first century power supplies are lighter and more efficient. The first ion-propelled aircraft to take off and fly using it...
443. ...s radioactive. Health risks related to the residual radioactivity of the treated gemstones have led to government regulations in many countries. Irradiation is used to cross-link plastics. Due to its **efficiency**, electron beam processing is often used in the irradiation treatment of polymer-based products to improve their mechanical, thermal, and chemical properties, and often to add unique properties. Cross...
444. ...it is possible, at least in principle, to change the plasma temperature and density to deal with the situation. The greatest challenge is to generate a large area or volume of plasma with good energy **efficiency**. Plasma stealth technology also faces various technical problems. For example, the plasma itself emits EM radiation, although it is usually weak and noise-like in spectrum. Also, it takes some time f...
445. ...the cylinder, spinning a turbine at the bottom. The turbine drives a generator which produces the electricity. The greater the temperature difference between the air and water, the greater the energy **efficiency**. Therefore, downdraft energy towers should work best in a hot dry climate. Energy towers require large quantities of water. Salt water is acceptable, although care must be taken to prevent corrosion;...
446. ...the solar updraft tower, which heats air in glass enclosures at ground level and sends the heated air up a tower driving turbines at the base. Updraft towers do not pump water, which increases their **efficiency**, but do require large amounts of land for the collectors. Land acquisition and collector construction costs for updraft towers must be compared to pumping infrastructure costs for downdraft collector...
447. ...energy sources other than hydro. Pumping the water requires about 50% of the turbine's output. Zaslavsky claims that the Energy Tower would achieve up to 70-80% of the Carnot limit. If the conversion **efficiency** turns out to be much lower, it is expected to have an adverse impact on projections made for cost of energy. Projections made by Altmann and by Czisch about conversion efficiency and about cost of en...
448. ...t. If the conversion efficiency turns out to be much lower, it is expected to have an adverse impact on projections made for cost of energy. Projections made by Altmann and by Czisch about conversion **efficiency** and about cost of energy (cents/kWh) are based only on model calculations, no data on a working pilot plant have ever been collected. Actual measurements on the 50 kW Manzanares pilot solar updraft t...
449. ...y (cents/kWh) are based only on model calculations, no data on a working pilot plant have ever been collected. Actual measurements on the 50 kW Manzanares pilot solar updraft tower found a conversion **efficiency** of 0.53%, although SBP believe that this could be increased to 1.3% in a large and improved 100 MW unit. This amounts to about 10% of the theoretical limit for the Carnot cycle. It is important to no...
450. ...dramatically increases the potential for thermal energy capture, and electrical generation, due to its specific heat capacity. While the design may have its problems (see next section) and the stated **efficiency** claims has yet to be demonstrated, it would be an error to extrapolate performance from one to the other simply because of similarities in the name. Large industrial consumers often locate near cheap...
451. ...st the applied gate voltage, this subthreshold drain current exhibits a log-linear slope, which is defined as the subthreshold slope. Subthreshold slope is used as a figure of merit for the switching **efficiency** of a transistor. In digital circuits, subthreshold conduction is generally viewed as a parasitic leakage in a state that would ideally have no conduction. In micropower analog circuits, on the other...
452. ...for performing station keeping on its geosynchronous satellites (more than 100 engines flying).  NASA is currently working on a 20–50 kW electrostatic ion thruster called HiPEP which will have higher **efficiency**, specific impulse, and a longer lifetime than NSTAR. In 2006, Aerojet completed testing of a prototype NEXT ion thruster. Beginning in the 1970s, radio-frequency ion thrusters were developed at Giess...
453. ...ge, which would attract ions back toward the spacecraft and cancel the thrust. The ion optics are constantly bombarded by a small amount of secondary ions and erode or wear away, thus reducing engine **efficiency** and life. Several techniques were used to reduce erosion; most notable was switching to a different propellant. Mercury or caesium atoms were used as propellants during tests in the 1960s and 1970s,...
454. ...lectrodes can either carry heavy busbars (which may be hollow water-cooled copper pipes carrying current to the electrode clamps) or be "hot arms", where the whole arm carries the current, increasing **efficiency**. Hot arms can be made from copper-clad steel or aluminium. Large water-cooled cables connect the bus tubes or arms with the transformer located adjacent to the furnace. The transformer is installed i...
455. ...n produce a heat in 30–40 minutes. Enormous variations exist in furnace design details and operation, depending on the end product and local conditions, as well as ongoing research to improve furnace **efficiency**. The largest scrap-only furnace (in terms of tapping weight and transformer rating) is a DC furnace operated by Tokyo Steel in Japan, with a tap weight of 420 tonnes and fed by eight 32 MVA transform...
456. ...yers should be present in the furnace after charging. After loading, the basket may pass to a scrap pre-heater, which uses hot furnace off-gases to heat the scrap and recover energy, increasing plant **efficiency**. The scrap basket is then taken to the melt shop, the roof is swung off the furnace, and the furnace is charged with scrap from the basket. Charging is one of the more dangerous operations for the EA...
457. ...in the form of coke or coal) is injected into this slag layer, reacting with the iron oxide to form metallic iron and carbon monoxide gas, which then causes the slag to foam, allowing greater thermal **efficiency**, and better arc stability and electrical efficiency. The slag blanket also covers the arcs, preventing damage to the furnace roof and sidewalls from radiant heat. Once the initial scrap charge has be...
458. ...lag layer, reacting with the iron oxide to form metallic iron and carbon monoxide gas, which then causes the slag to foam, allowing greater thermal efficiency, and better arc stability and electrical **efficiency**. The slag blanket also covers the arcs, preventing damage to the furnace roof and sidewalls from radiant heat. Once the initial scrap charge has been melted down, another bucket of scrap can be charg...
459. ...l, or by water sprayed on the panel elements. Tubular panels may be replaced when they become cracked or reach their thermal stress life cycle. Spray cooling is the most economical and is the highest **efficiency** cooling method. A spray cooling piece of equipment can be relined almost endlessly. Equipment that lasts 20 years is the norm. While a tubular leak is immediately noticed in an operating furnace due...
460. ...les into groups; particles within a group interact normally (i.e., by the full potential), whereas the energies and forces between groups of particles are calculated from their multipole moments. The **efficiency** of the fast multipole method is generally similar to that of Ewald summation, but is superior if the particles are clustered, i.e. the system has large density fluctuations. Consider a discrete charg...
461. ...A benefit of transferred DC torches is that the plasma arc is formed outside the water-cooled body, preventing heat loss—as is the case with non-transferred torches, where their electrical-to-thermal **efficiency** can be as low as 50%, but the hot water can itself be utilized. Furthermore, transferred DC torches can be used in a twin-torch setup, where one torch is cathodic and the other anodic, which has the...
462. ...larger, because they suffer more wear by the plasma arc. The quality of plasma produced is a function of density (pressure), temperature and torch power (the greater the better). With regards to the **efficiency** of the torch itself—this can vary among manufacturers and torch technology; though for example, Leal-Quirós reports that for Westinghouse Plasma Corp. torches “a thermal efficiency of 90% is easily p...
463. ...ith regards to the efficiency of the torch itself—this can vary among manufacturers and torch technology; though for example, Leal-Quirós reports that for Westinghouse Plasma Corp. torches “a thermal **efficiency** of 90% is easily possible; the efficiency represents the percentage of arc power that exits the torch and enters the process”. In a DC torch, the electric arc is formed between the electrodes (which...
464. ...itself—this can vary among manufacturers and torch technology; though for example, Leal-Quirós reports that for Westinghouse Plasma Corp. torches “a thermal efficiency of 90% is easily possible; the **efficiency** represents the percentage of arc power that exits the torch and enters the process”. In a DC torch, the electric arc is formed between the electrodes (which can be made of copper, tungsten, graphite,...
465. ...scale integration. Another microfluidic platform is based on ionomeric materials. Pumps made from that material could offer low voltage (battery) operation, extremely low noise signature, high system **efficiency**, and highly accurate control of flow rate. Another technology that can benefit from the unique properties of EAP actuators is optical membranes. Due to their low modulus, the mechanical impedance of...
466. ...generators in that they operate without moving parts (e.g. no turbines), so there is no limit on the upper temperature at which they can operate. They have the highest known theoretical thermodynamic **efficiency** of any electrical generation method. MHD has been developed for use in combined cycle power plants to increase the efficiency of electric generation, especially when burning coal or natural gas. The...
467. ...h they can operate. They have the highest known theoretical thermodynamic efficiency of any electrical generation method. MHD has been developed for use in combined cycle power plants to increase the **efficiency** of electric generation, especially when burning coal or natural gas. The hot exhaust gas from an MHD generator can heat the boilers of a steam power plant, increasing overall efficiency. Practical MH...
468. ...increase the efficiency of electric generation, especially when burning coal or natural gas. The hot exhaust gas from an MHD generator can heat the boilers of a steam power plant, increasing overall **efficiency**. Practical MHD generators were been developed for fossil fuels, but these were overtaken by less expensive combined cycles in which the exhaust of a gas turbine or molten carbonate fuel cell heats st...
469. ...ich extracts energy from the steam by turning it into rotational motion. The steam is slowed and cooled as it passes through the turbine. The rotational motion then turns an electrical generator. The **efficiency** of this overall cycle, known the Rankine cycle, is a function of the temperature difference between the inlet to the boiler and the outlet to the turbine. The maximum temperature at the turbine is a...
470. ...f this law is given by the vector equation. formula_1 where  The vector is perpendicular to both and according to the right hand rule. Typically, for a large power station to approach the operational **efficiency** of computer models, steps must be taken to increase the electrical conductivity of the conductive substance. Heating a gas to its plasma state, or adding other easily ionizable substances like the sa...
471. ...other easily ionizable substances like the salts of alkali metals, can help to accomplish this. In practice, a number of issues must be considered in the implementation of an MHD generator: generator **efficiency**, economics, and toxic byproducts. These issues are affected by the choice of one of the three MHD generator designs: the Faraday generator, the Hall generator, and the disc generator. The Faraday gen...
472. ...ddle electrodes to be offset to "catch" the Faraday currents. As the load varies, the fluid flow speed varies, misaligning the Faraday current with its intended electrodes, and making the generator's **efficiency** very sensitive to its load. The third and, currently, the most efficient design is the Hall effect disc generator. This design currently holds the efficiency and energy density records for MHD genera...
473. ...ed electrodes, and making the generator's efficiency very sensitive to its load. The third and, currently, the most efficient design is the Hall effect disc generator. This design currently holds the **efficiency** and energy density records for MHD generation. A disc generator has fluid flowing between the center of a disc, and a duct wrapped around the edge. (The ducts are not shown.) The magnetic excitation...
474. ...ts flow between ring electrodes near the center duct and ring electrodes near the periphery duct. The wide flat gas flow reduced the distance, hence the resistance of the moving fluid. This increases **efficiency**. Another significant advantage of this design is that the magnets are more efficient. First, they cause simple parallel field lines. Second, because the fluid is processed in a disk, the magnet can b...
475. ...is geometry, magnetic field strengths increase as the 7th power of distance. Finally, the generator is compact, so the magnet is smaller and uses a much smaller percentage of the generated power. The **efficiency** of the direct energy conversion in MHD power generation increases with the magnetic field strength and the plasma conductivity, which depends directly on the plasma temperature, and more precisely on...
476. ...ome the electrothermal instability, practical MHD generators had to limit the Hall parameter or use moderately-heated thermal plasmas instead of cold plasmas with hot electrons, which severely lowers **efficiency**. As of 1994, the 22% efficiency record for closed-cycle disc MHD generators was held by Tokyo Technical Institute. The peak enthalpy extraction in these experiments reached 30.2%. Typical open-cycle...
477. ...ty, practical MHD generators had to limit the Hall parameter or use moderately-heated thermal plasmas instead of cold plasmas with hot electrons, which severely lowers efficiency. As of 1994, the 22% **efficiency** record for closed-cycle disc MHD generators was held by Tokyo Technical Institute. The peak enthalpy extraction in these experiments reached 30.2%. Typical open-cycle Hall & duct coal MHD generators...
478. ...ot as a flame. By routing its exhaust gases into a heat exchanger for a turbine Brayton cycle or steam generator Rankine cycle, MHD can convert fossil fuels into electricity with an overall estimated **efficiency** of up to 60 percent, compared to the 40 percent of a typical coal plant. A magnetohydrodynamic generator might also be the first stage of a gas core reactor.  MHD generators have problems in regard t...
479. ...usual methods establish a chemical passivation layer, and cool the busbar with water. MHD generators have not been used for large-scale mass energy conversion because other techniques with comparable **efficiency** have a lower lifecycle investment cost. Advances in natural gas turbines achieved similar thermal efficiencies at lower costs, by having the turbine exhaust drive a Rankine cycle steam plant. To get...
480. ...es merely withstand the pressure within, while the anode and cathode conductors collect the electricity that is generated. All Brayton cycles are heat engines. Ideal Brayton cycles also have an ideal **efficiency** equal to ideal Carnot cycle efficiency. Thus, the potential for high energy efficiency from an MHD generator. All Brayton cycles have higher potential for efficiency the higher the firing temperature...
481. ..., while the anode and cathode conductors collect the electricity that is generated. All Brayton cycles are heat engines. Ideal Brayton cycles also have an ideal efficiency equal to ideal Carnot cycle **efficiency**. Thus, the potential for high energy efficiency from an MHD generator. All Brayton cycles have higher potential for efficiency the higher the firing temperature. While a combustion turbine is limited...
482. ...the electricity that is generated. All Brayton cycles are heat engines. Ideal Brayton cycles also have an ideal efficiency equal to ideal Carnot cycle efficiency. Thus, the potential for high energy **efficiency** from an MHD generator. All Brayton cycles have higher potential for efficiency the higher the firing temperature. While a combustion turbine is limited in maximum temperature by the strength of its a...
483. ...Brayton cycles also have an ideal efficiency equal to ideal Carnot cycle efficiency. Thus, the potential for high energy efficiency from an MHD generator. All Brayton cycles have higher potential for **efficiency** the higher the firing temperature. While a combustion turbine is limited in maximum temperature by the strength of its air/water or steam-cooled rotating airfoils; there are no rotating parts in an o...
484. ...n maximum temperature by the strength of its air/water or steam-cooled rotating airfoils; there are no rotating parts in an open-cycle MHD generator. This upper bound in temperature limits the energy **efficiency** in combustion turbines. The upper bound on Brayton cycle temperature for an MHD generator is not limited, so inherently an MHD generator has a higher potential capability for energy efficiency. The t...
485. ...energy efficiency in combustion turbines. The upper bound on Brayton cycle temperature for an MHD generator is not limited, so inherently an MHD generator has a higher potential capability for energy **efficiency**. The temperatures at which linear coal-fueled MHD generators can operate are limited by factors that include: (a) the combustion fuel, oxidizer, and oxidizer preheat temperature which limit the maxim...
486. ...could go, 1000 MWe Advanced Coal-Fired MHD/Steam Binary Cycle Power Plant Conceptual Design, published in June 1989, showed that a large coal-fired MHD combined cycle plant could attain a HHV energy **efficiency** approaching 60 percent—well in excess of other coal-fueled technologies, so the potential for low operating costs exists. However, no testing at those aggressive conditions or size has yet occurred,...
487. ...ter-cooled copper electrodes capped with platinum, tungsten, stainless steel, and electrically conducting ceramics. MHD reduces the overall production of fossil fuel wastes because it increases plant **efficiency**. In MHD coal plants, the patented commercial "Econoseed" process developed by the U.S. (see below) recycles potassium ionization seed from the fly ash captured by the stack-gas scrubber. However, thi...
488. ...natural gas, to be built using the experience of FUJI-1. The basic MHD design was to be a system with inert gases using a disk generator. The aim was an enthalpy extraction of 30% and an MHD thermal **efficiency** of 60%. FUJI-2 was to be followed by a retrofit to a 300MWe natural gas plant. From the 1980s, Professor Hugo Messerle at The University of Sydney researched coal-fueled MHD. This resulted in a 28MWe...
489. ...lphabet Energy announced plans to offer a thermoelectric device based on tetrahedrite to turn heat into electricity. The company claimed that other thermoelectrics typically produce about 2.5 percent **efficiency**, while tetrahedrite could achieve 5 to 10 percent. Other thermoelectrics are either scarce, expensive ($24–146/kg vs $4 for tetrahedrite) and/or toxic. Working with a natural material also reduces ma...
490. ...ss of permeability; this can be regained by repeating the annealing step. Amorphous metal is a variety of alloys (e.g. Metglas) that are non-crystalline or glassy. These are being used to create high-**efficiency** transformers. The materials can be highly responsive to magnetic fields for low hysteresis losses, and they can also have lower conductivity to reduce eddy current losses. Power utilities are current...
491. ...equation can be presented as follow: This reaction characterized by reversible and fast electrode kinetics, meaning that a sufficiently high current can be passed through the electrode with the 100% **efficiency** of the redox reaction (dissolution of the metal or cathodic deposition of the copper-ions). The Nernst equation below shows the dependence of the potential of the copper-copper(II) sulfate electrode...
492. ...onsisting of a series of metal points, was added to the machine by Benjamin Wilson about 1746, and in 1762, John Canton of England (also the inventor of the first pith-ball electroscope) improved the **efficiency** of electric machines by sprinkling an amalgam of tin over the surface of the rubber. In 1768, Jesse Ramsden constructed a widely used version of a plate electrical generator. In 1783, Dutch scientist...
493. ..., the first of these being collected from the prime conductor carrying the collecting points and the second from another prime conductor carrying the friction pad. The Winter machine possessed higher **efficiency** than earlier friction machines. In the 1830s, Georg Ohm possessed a machine similar to the Van Marum machine for his research (which is now at the Deutsches Museum, Munich, Germany). In 1840, the Woo...
494. ...Smith received the American patent for a portable and airtight device that was designed to ignite powder. Also in 1869, sectorless machines in Germany were investigated by Poggendorff. The action and **efficiency** of influence machines were further investigated by F. Rossetti, A. Righi, and Friedrich Kohlrausch. E. E. N. Mascart, A. Roiti, and E. Bouchotte also examined the efficiency and current producing pow...
495. ...ggendorff. The action and efficiency of influence machines were further investigated by F. Rossetti, A. Righi, and Friedrich Kohlrausch. E. E. N. Mascart, A. Roiti, and E. Bouchotte also examined the **efficiency** and current producing power of influence machines. In 1871, sectorless machines were investigated by Musaeus. In 1872, Righi's electrometer was developed and was one of the first antecedents of the V...
496. ...developers were Johan Smit and Dhiradj Djairam. Other than the wind, it has no moving parts. It is powered by the wind carrying away charged particles from its collector. The design suffers from poor **efficiency**. The technology developed for EWICON has been reused in the Dutch Windwheel. These generators have been used, sometimes inappropriately and with some controversy, to support various fringe science in...
497. ...the valve can carry high currents at low "arc voltages" (typically 20–30 V) and so is an efficient rectifier. Hot-cathode, gas discharge tubes such as the thyratron may also achieve similar levels of **efficiency** but heated cathode filaments are delicate and have a short operating life when used at high current. The temperature of the envelope must be carefully controlled, since the behaviour of the arc is de...
498. ...us called "full-wave rectification". With three-phase alternating current and full-wave rectification, six anodes were used to provide a smoother direct current. Three phase operation can improve the **efficiency** of the transformer as well as providing smoother DC current by enabling two anodes to conduct simultaneously. During operation, the arc transfers to the anodes at the highest positive potential (with...
499. ...convert this into voltage to drive current. Post helped develop the theoretical underpinnings of direct conversion, later demonstrated by Barr and Moir. They demonstrated a 48 percent energy capture **efficiency** on the Tandem Mirror Experiment in 1981. Polywell fusion was pioneered by the late Robert W. Bussard in 1995 and funded by the US Navy. Polywell uses inertial electrostatic confinement. He founded EM...
500. ...tal consumption: according to the US Energy Information Administration, "Electricity consumption by 107 million U.S. households in 2001 totalled 1,140 billion kW·h" (). Again assuming 100% conversion **efficiency**, 6.7 tonnes per year of He would be required for that segment of the energy demand of the United States, 15 to 20 tonnes per year given a more realistic end-to-end conversion efficiency. Extracting t...
501. ...0% conversion efficiency, 6.7 tonnes per year of He would be required for that segment of the energy demand of the United States, 15 to 20 tonnes per year given a more realistic end-to-end conversion **efficiency**. Extracting that amount of pure He would entail processing 2 billion tonnes of lunar material per year, even assuming a recovery rate of 100%. In 2022, Helion Energy claimed that their 7th fusion pro...
502. ...and under construction as of September 2022) will demonstrate "net electricity from fusion", and will demonstrate "helium-3 production through deuterium–deuterium fusion" by means of a "patented high-**efficiency** closed-fuel cycle". Although the deuterium reactions (deuterium + He and deuterium + lithium) do not in themselves release neutrons, in a fusion reactor the plasma would also produce D–D side reactio...
503. ...as half of the electricity fed into them ending up as energy in the plasma. For this reason, "P" in the steady state is something fairly close to all of the energy being fed into the reactor, and the **efficiency** of the heating systems is generally ignored. When the total efficiency is considered then it is generally not part of the calculation of "Q", but instead included in the calculation of engineering br...
504. ...sma. For this reason, "P" in the steady state is something fairly close to all of the energy being fed into the reactor, and the efficiency of the heating systems is generally ignored. When the total **efficiency** is considered then it is generally not part of the calculation of "Q", but instead included in the calculation of engineering breakeven, "Q" (see below). In contrast, in ICF devices the energy needed...
505. ...ooling fluid used in a heat exchanger driving conventional steam turbines and generators. That electricity is then fed back into the heating system. Each of these steps in the generation chain has an **efficiency** to consider. In the case of the plasma heating systems, formula_1 is on the order of 60 to 70%, while modern generator systems based on the Rankine cycle have formula_2 around 35 to 40%. Combining th...
506. ...the case of the plasma heating systems, formula_1 is on the order of 60 to 70%, while modern generator systems based on the Rankine cycle have formula_2 around 35 to 40%. Combining these we get a net **efficiency** of the power conversion loop as a whole, formula_3, of around 0.20 to 0.25. That is, about 20 to 25% of formula_4 can be recirculated. Thus, the fusion energy gain factor required to reach engineerin...
507. ...neutron, and only 20% of the energy in the form of an alpha. Thus, for the D-T reaction, "f" = 0.2. This means that self-heating does not become equal to the external heating until at least "Q" = 5. **Efficiency** values depend on design details but may be in the range of "η" = 0.7 (70%) and "η" = 0.4 (40%). The purpose of a fusion reactor is to produce power, not to recirculate it, so a practical reactor must...
508. ...ack towards the charging system, or they may simply pass by the collector. The particles which never reach the collector do not contribute to the net energy generation. The system performs at maximum **efficiency** when all particles reach the collector. Adjusting variables such as wind speed and collector size can improve the performance of the system. The EWICON functions using the same principles as the prev...
509. ...force is exerted. If there is little wind, the force may transport the particles back to the charging system, losing the net energy gained from their dispersal. The EWICON system performs at maximum **efficiency** when all particles leave the charging system and reach the Earth, which acts as the collector in lieu of a secondary system. A group of researchers from Delft University of Technology devised the sys...
510. ...ter filtration, and solar energy. The center of the circular building is reserved for wind power generation through the use of a large-scale ion wind generator based on the EWICON implementation. The **efficiency** and power generation of the system at such a scale is not known, but the Dutch Windwheel Corp. expects the building to generate more energy than it consumes. Ion wind generators and wind turbines sha...
511. ...e EWICON was unable to match wind turbine output. Researchers were able to demonstrate "a conversion of 7% of the wind energy into electrical energy, whereas conventional wind turbine systems have an **efficiency** of 45% at their rated speeds. Improvements are suggested that could lead to an efficiency of the EWICON in the range of 25–30%." At the 2005 International Conference on Future Power Systems, suggesti...
512. ...conversion of 7% of the wind energy into electrical energy, whereas conventional wind turbine systems have an efficiency of 45% at their rated speeds. Improvements are suggested that could lead to an **efficiency** of the EWICON in the range of 25–30%." At the 2005 International Conference on Future Power Systems, suggestions for future advancements included changes to the method of electrohydrodynamic atomizat...
513. ...method of electrohydrodynamic atomization, or electrospray, and designing a more dense array of nozzles. Tests have yet to indicate that the technology has developed enough to rival wind turbines in **efficiency**. Several prototypes have been built for testing and experimentation, but researchers hope to build a larger device with greater power output. While the current level of development does not surpass w...
514. ...ypes have been built for testing and experimentation, but researchers hope to build a larger device with greater power output. While the current level of development does not surpass wind turbines in **efficiency**, the technology could contribute to the energy mix in urban environments where a wind turbine may be impractical. Electrode line An electrode line is used in some high-voltage direct-current (HVDC) p...
515. ...to the solid AgCl phase. This reaction is a reversible reaction and is characterized by fast electrode kinetics, meaning that a sufficiently high current can be passed through the electrode with 100% **efficiency** of the redox reaction (anodic oxidation and dissolution of the Ag metal along with cathodic reduction and deposition of the ions as Ag metal onto the surface of the Ag wire). The reaction has been pr...
516. ...divided by the mass is the change in perpendicular velocity: Note that the deflection angle is proportional to formula_9. Fast particles are "slippery" and thus dominate many transport processes. The **efficiency** of velocity-matched interactions is also the reason that fusion products tend to heat the electrons rather than (as would be desirable) the ions. If an electric field is present, the faster electrons...
517. ...osed in an uneven way to solar radiation." The first solar cell, consisting of a layer of selenium covered with a thin film of gold, was experimented by Charles Fritts in 1884, but it had a very poor **efficiency**. However, the most familiar form of the photovoltaic effect uses solid-state devices, mainly in photodiodes. When sunlight or other sufficiently energetic light is incident upon the photodiode, the e...
518. ...e after a radiative lifetime formula_7. The carrier lifetime formula_8 is then obtained from the rate of both type of events according to: formula_9 From which we can also define the internal quantum **efficiency** or quantum yield, formula_10 as: formula_11 "Band-to-band recombination" is the name for the process of electrons jumping down from the conduction band to the valence band in a radiative manner. Duri...
519. ...iconductors, whereby charge carriers recombine releasing phonons instead of photons. Non-radiative recombination in optoelectronics and phosphors is an unwanted process, lowering the light generation **efficiency** and increasing heat losses. Non-radiative life time is the average time before an electron in the conduction band of a semiconductor recombines with a hole. It is an important parameter in optoelectr...
520. ...ecombination is required to produce a photon; if the non-radiative life time is shorter than the radiative, a carrier is more likely to recombine non-radiatively. This results in low internal quantum **efficiency**. In "Shockley-Read-Hall recombination" ("SRH"), also called "trap-assisted recombination", the electron in transition between bands passes through a new energy state (localized state) created within...
521. ...combination rate formula_74 and resulting net recombination rate formula_75 under steady-state conditions are formula_76 The Auger lifetime formula_77 is given by formula_78 The mechanism causing LED **efficiency** droop was identified in 2007 as Auger recombination, which met with a mixed reaction. In 2013, an experimental study claimed to have identified Auger recombination as the cause of efficiency droop. H...
522. ...sing LED efficiency droop was identified in 2007 as Auger recombination, which met with a mixed reaction. In 2013, an experimental study claimed to have identified Auger recombination as the cause of **efficiency** droop. However, it remains disputed whether the amount of Auger loss found in this study is sufficient to explain the droop. Other frequently quoted evidence against Auger as the main droop-causing m...
523. ...signal around the positive dc level, with a high-enough frequency to be imperceptible to the human eye. Due to this superposition of signals, implementation of VLC transmitter usually require a high-**efficiency**, higher-power, slower response DC converter responsible for the LED bias that will provide lighting, alongside a lower-efficiency, lower-power, but higher response velocity amplifier in order to synt...
524. ...of signals, implementation of VLC transmitter usually require a high-efficiency, higher-power, slower response DC converter responsible for the LED bias that will provide lighting, alongside a lower-**efficiency**, lower-power, but higher response velocity amplifier in order to synthesize the required AC current modulation. There are several modulation techniques available, forming three main groups: Single-Ca...
525. ...waves based on high-low states will present inherit average values. This brings two main advantages for the Pulse-Based Transmission modulations: It can be implemented with a single high-power, high-**efficiency**, dc converter of slow response and an additional power switch operating in fast speeds to deliver current to the LED at determined instants. Once the average value depends on the pulse width of the d...
526. ...ns, exothermic welding is used for underground connections. Soil resistance is a major aspect in the design and calculation of an earthing system/grounding installation. Its resistance determines the **efficiency** of the diversion of unwanted currents to zero potential (ground). The resistance of a geological material depends on several components: the presence of metal ores, the temperature of the geological...
527. ...e stabilizing PSS forms a shell around a core of PEDOT in a nano-sized structure. The negatively charged sulfonic acid ions help stabilize the positively charged PEDOT ions. PEDOT:PSS has the highest **efficiency** among conductive organic thermoelectric materials (ZT~0.42) and thus can be used in flexible thermoelectric generators. Yet its largest application is as a transparent, conductive polymer with high d...
528. ...ransition-metal d states are responsible for these favourable properties. Multiferroic films with appropriate band gap structure into solar cells was developed which results in high energy conversion **efficiency** due to efficient ferroelectric polarization driven carrier separation and overband spacing generation photo-voltage. Various films have been researched, and there is also a new approach to effectivel...
529. ...es plots with two colors (e.g. red/green) or even multi colored plots in form of digital spread sheet documents and alike became also common, even if the traditional form is still in use. For testing **efficiency** sometimes only the border of interest (where a certain value changes its state) is backed up with data in the diagrams thus (often reasonably) assuming the areas outside those transition will stay at...
530. ...performance of a space heater and overheating of the wires and connections. National and local electrical codes may set guidelines for the maximum voltage drop allowed in electrical wiring to ensure **efficiency** of distribution and proper operation of electrical equipment. The maximum permitted voltage drop varies from one country to another. In electronic design and power transmission, various techniques ar...
531. ...and 0.07 while digital ballasts have a flicker index of below 0.01. Because more gas remains ionized in the arc stream, the lamp operates at about 9% higher efficacy above approximately 10 kHz. Lamp **efficiency** increases sharply at about 10 kHz and continues to improve until approximately 20 kHz. Electronic ballast retrofits to existing street lights had been tested in some Canadian provinces circa 2012; si...
532. ...l approximately 20 kHz. Electronic ballast retrofits to existing street lights had been tested in some Canadian provinces circa 2012; since then LED retrofits have become more common. With the higher **efficiency** of the ballast itself and the higher lamp efficacy at higher frequency, electronic ballasts offer higher system efficacy for low pressure lamps like the fluorescent lamp. For HID lamps, there is no i...
533. ...al circuitry (formula_2) of a typical LDO is calculated as follows: formula_3 where formula_4 is the quiescent current required by the LDO for its internal circuitry. Therefore, one can calculate the **efficiency** as follows: formula_5 where formula_6 However, when the LDO is in full operation (i.e., supplying current to the load) generally: formula_7. This allows us to reduce formula_2 to the following: formu...
534. ...rmula_6 However, when the LDO is in full operation (i.e., supplying current to the load) generally: formula_7. This allows us to reduce formula_2 to the following: formula_9 which further reduces the **efficiency** equation to: formula_10 It is important to keep thermal considerations in mind when using a low drop-out linear regulator. Having high current and/or a wide differential between input and output volt...
535. ...considerations in mind when using a low drop-out linear regulator. Having high current and/or a wide differential between input and output voltage could lead to large power dissipation. Additionally, **efficiency** will suffer as the differential widens. Depending on the package, excessive power dissipation could damage the LDO or cause it to go into thermal shutdown. Among other important characteristics of a...
536. ...of the output capacitor. The application determines how low this value should be. A competitor to the LDO, the IVR (integrated voltage regulator) appears to offer solutions to many of the issues with **efficiency** and performance that LDO regulators suffer. IVRs combine a switching voltage regulator with all necessary control circuitry into a single device which results in a 10× size reduction and 10–50% energ...
537. ...nge of 3.6x10^9 to 7.6x10^11 for the machines surveyed by Soto. The wide range of this parameter is because it is a "storage energy density" which translates into plasma energy density with different **efficiency** depending on the widely differing performance of different machines. Thus to result in the necessary plasma energy density (which is found to be a near constant for optimized neutron production) requ...
538. ...ost of this power will be reabsorbed before being lost from the plasma. Another advantage claimed is the capability of direct conversion of the energy of the fusion products into electricity, with an **efficiency** potentially above 70%. Experiments and computer simulations to investigate the capability of DPF for fusion power are underway at Lawrenceville Plasma Physics (LPP) under the direction of Eric Lerner...
539. ...s earlier parametron based digital logic technology, which did not use superconductivity effects or Josephson junctions. The Josephson junctions on QFP integrated circuits to improve speed and energy **efficiency** enormously over the parametrons. In some applications, the complexity of the cryogenic cooling system required is negligible compared to the potential speed gains. While his design makes use of quant...
540. ...is known as orbital motion limited (OML) in a collisionless plasma. As the effective radius of the bare conductive tether increases past this point then there are predictable reductions in collection **efficiency** compared to OML theory. In addition to this theory (which has been derived for a non-flowing plasma), current collection in space occurs in a flowing plasma, which introduces another collection effec...
541. ...elerated grid, or electron gun, is used. The equation shows what potential is needed across the grid in order to emit a certain current entering the device. Here, η is the electron gun assembly (EGA) **efficiency** (~0.97 in TSS-1), ρ is the perveance of the EGA (7.2 micropervs in TSS-1), ΔV is the voltage across the accelerating grid of the EGA, and "I" is the emitted current. The perveance defines the space c...
542. ...the finite set of equations which can be solved numerically. In the special context of electronics, the algorithm starts with Kirchhoff's current law written in the frequency-domain. To increase the **efficiency** of the procedure, the circuit may be partitioned into its linear and nonlinear parts, since the linear part is readily described and calculated using nodal analysis directly in the frequency domain....
543. ...arads to more than hundreds of farads. Voltage ratings can reach 100 kilovolts. In general, capacitance and voltage correlate with physical size and cost. As in other areas of electronics, volumetric **efficiency** measures the performance of electronic function per unit volume. For capacitors, the volumetric efficiency is measured with the "CV product", calculated by multiplying the capacitance (C) by the maxi...
544. ...voltage correlate with physical size and cost. As in other areas of electronics, volumetric efficiency measures the performance of electronic function per unit volume. For capacitors, the volumetric **efficiency** is measured with the "CV product", calculated by multiplying the capacitance (C) by the maximum voltage rating (V), divided by the volume. From 1970 to 2005, volumetric efficiencies have improved dra...
545. ...e specified DC voltage. AC loads can occur in AC motor run capacitors, for voltage doubling, in snubbers, lighting ballast and for PFC for phase shifting to improve transmission network stability and **efficiency**, which is one of the most important applications for large power capacitors. These mostly large PP film or metallized paper capacitors are limited by the rated reactive power VAr. Bipolar electrolyti...
546. ...ze of the stack) and of energy (determined by the size of the tanks), long cycle and calendar life, and potentially lower total cost of ownership. However, flow batteries suffer from low cycle energy **efficiency** (50–80%). This drawback stems from the need to operate flow batteries at high (>= 100 mA/cm2) current densities to reduce the effect of internal crossover (through the membrane/separator) and to redu...
547. ...safe because they typically do not contain flammable electrolytes, and electrolytes can be stored away from the power stack. The main disadvantages are: Flow batteries typically have a higher energy **efficiency** than fuel cells, but lower than lithium-ion batteries. Traditional flow battery chemistries have both low specific energy (which makes them too heavy for fully electric vehicles) and low specific pow...
548. ...ng in many year durability and many cycle (15,000–20,000) lives, which in turn results in a record low levelized cost of energy (LCOE, system cost divided by usable energy, cycle life, and round-trip **efficiency**). These long lifetimes allow for the amortization of their relatively high capital cost (driven by vanadium, carbon felts, bipolar plates, and membranes). The LCOE is on the order of a few tens cents...
549. ...of that does not require extensive cooling circuitry, which would add weight and occupy space. One unresolved issue is zinc buildup on the negative electrode that can permeate the membrane, reducing **efficiency**. Because of the Zn dendrite formation, Zn-halide batteries cannot operate at high current density (> 20 mA/cm) and thus have limited power density. Adding alcohol to the electrolyte of the ZnI batter...
550. ...FBs as of 2015. The aqueous liquid electrolytes were designed as a drop-in replacement without replacing infrastructure. A 600-milliwatt test battery was stable for 100 cycles with nearly 100 percent **efficiency** at current densities ranging from 20 to 100 mA/cm, with optimal performance rated at 40–50mA, at which about 70% of the battery's original voltage was retained. Neutral AORFBs can be more environment...
551. ...lution (1M KOH) and ferrocyanide was less corrosive, allowing the use of inexpensive polymer tanks. The increased electrical resistance in the membrane was compensated increased voltage to 1.2V. Cell **efficiency** exceeded 99%, while round-trip efficiency measured 84%. The battery offered an expected lifetime of at least 1,000 cycles. Its theoretic energy density was 19Wh/L. Ferrocyanide's chemical stability i...
552. ...corrosive, allowing the use of inexpensive polymer tanks. The increased electrical resistance in the membrane was compensated increased voltage to 1.2V. Cell efficiency exceeded 99%, while round-trip **efficiency** measured 84%. The battery offered an expected lifetime of at least 1,000 cycles. Its theoretic energy density was 19Wh/L. Ferrocyanide's chemical stability in high pH KOH solution was not verified. I...
553. ...and recirculation of the electrolyte streams was demonstrated. The battery was based on immiscible organic catholyte and aqueous anolyte liquids, which exhibited high capacity retention and Coulombic **efficiency** during cycling. A lithium–sulfur system arranged in a network of nanoparticles eliminates the requirement that charge moves in and out of particles that are in direct contact with a conducting plate....
554. ...lity, and wider chemical design space. However, because of double energy losses (one in the stack and another in the tank between the SEB(ROTS) and a mediator), such batteries suffer from poor energy **efficiency**. On a system-level, the practical specific energy of traditional lithium-ion batteries is larger than that of SEB(ROTS)-flow versions of lithium-ion batteries. Technical merits make redox flow batter...
555. ...by the electric power industry through an electrical grid. Electric power can be delivered over long distances by transmission lines and used for applications such as motion, light or heat with high **efficiency**. Electric power, like mechanical power, is the rate of doing work, measured in watts, and represented by the letter "P". The term "wattage" is used colloquially to mean "electric power in watts". The...
556. ...joules available, each one of the four disk alternators in the EMALS system can deliver 29% more energy than a steam catapult's approximately 95 MJ. The EMALS, with their planned 90% power conversion **efficiency**, will also be more efficient than steam catapults, which achieve only a 5% efficiency. In May 2017, President Donald Trump criticized EMALS during an interview with "Time", saying that in comparison...
557. ...r 29% more energy than a steam catapult's approximately 95 MJ. The EMALS, with their planned 90% power conversion efficiency, will also be more efficient than steam catapults, which achieve only a 5% **efficiency**. In May 2017, President Donald Trump criticized EMALS during an interview with "Time", saying that in comparison to traditional steam catapults, "the digital costs hundreds of millions of dollars mor...
558. ...loss calculations more difficult. Litz wire is a type of wire constructed to force the current to be distributed uniformly, thereby reducing Joule heating. Among other measures, the electrical energy **efficiency** of a typical industrial induction motor can be improved by reducing the electrical losses in the stator windings (e.g., by increasing the cross-sectional area of the conductor, improving the winding...
559. ...oost converter is sometimes called a step-up converter since it "steps up" the source voltage. Since power (formula_1) must be conserved, the output current is lower than the source current. For high **efficiency**, the switched-mode power supply (SMPS) switch must turn on and off quickly and have low losses. The advent of a commercial semiconductor switch in the 1950s represented a major milestone that made SM...
560. ...des both an axis and a direction of motility for polar magneto-aerotactic bacteria, whereas it only provides an axis of motility for axial types of bacteria. In both cases, magnetotaxis increases the **efficiency** of aerotaxis in vertical concentration gradients by reducing a three-dimensional search to a single dimension. Scientists have also proposed an extension of the described model of magneto-aerotaxis t...
561. ...age, while increasing current, from its input ("supply") to its output ("load"). It is a class of switched-mode power supply. Switching converters (such as buck converters) provide much greater power **efficiency** as DC-to-DC converters than linear regulators, which are simpler circuits that dissipate power as heat, but do not step up output current. The efficiency of buck converters can be very high, often ov...
562. ...s buck converters) provide much greater power efficiency as DC-to-DC converters than linear regulators, which are simpler circuits that dissipate power as heat, but do not step up output current. The **efficiency** of buck converters can be very high, often over 90%, making them useful for tasks such as converting a computer's main supply voltage, which is usually 12V, down to lower voltages needed by USB, DRAM...
563. ...ypically operate with a switching frequency range from 100 kHz to a few MHz (citation needed). A higher switching frequency allows for use of smaller inductors and capacitors, but also increases lost **efficiency** to more frequent transistor switching. The basic concept of a buck converter is:  During on-state, the source may need to momentarily provide more current than its rating for constant load allows, bu...
564. ...several factors. Capacitor selection is normally determined based on cost, physical size and non-idealities of various capacitor types. Switching frequency selection is typically determined based on **efficiency** requirements, which tends to decrease at higher operating frequencies, as described below in Effects of non-ideality on the efficiency. Higher switching frequency can also raise EMI concerns. Output...
565. .... Switching frequency selection is typically determined based on efficiency requirements, which tends to decrease at higher operating frequencies, as described below in Effects of non-ideality on the **efficiency**. Higher switching frequency can also raise EMI concerns. Output voltage ripple is one of the disadvantages of a switching power supply, and can also be a measure of its quality. The simplified analys...
566. ...rters also include a diode to aid the lower MOSFET body diode with conduction during the non-overlap time. When a diode is used exclusively for the lower switch, diode forward turn-on time can reduce **efficiency** and lead to voltage overshoot. Power loss on the body diode is also proportional to switching frequency and is where: Finally, power losses occur as a result of the power required to turn the switche...
567. ...verter is a modified version of the basic buck converter circuit topology in which the diode, D, is replaced by a second switch, S. This modification is a tradeoff between increased cost and improved **efficiency**. In a standard buck converter, the flyback diode turns on, on its own, shortly after the switch turns off, as a result of the rising voltage across the diode. This voltage drop across the diode resul...
568. ...t of the rising voltage across the diode. This voltage drop across the diode results in a power loss which is equal to where: By replacing the diode with a switch selected for low loss, the converter **efficiency** can be improved. For example, a MOSFET with very low "R" might be selected for "S", providing power loss on switch which is In both cases, power loss is strongly dependent on the duty cycle, D. Power...
569. ...cal diode with forward voltage of 0.7 V would suffer a power loss of 2.38 W. A well-selected MOSFET with R of 0.015 Ω, however, would waste only 0.51 W in conduction loss. This translates to improved **efficiency** and reduced heat generation. Another advantage of the synchronous converter is that it is bi-directional, which lends itself to applications requiring regenerative braking. When power is transferred...
570. ...ck converter topology. Another technique is to insert a small resistor in the circuit and measure the voltage across it. This approach is more accurate and adjustable, but incurs several costs—space, **efficiency** and money. Finally, the current can be measured at the input. Voltage can be measured losslessly, across the upper switch, or using a power resistor, to approximate the current being drawn. This appr...
571. ...echnically more challenging, since switching noise cannot be easily filtered out. However, it is less expensive than having a sense resistor for each phase. There are two main phenomena impacting the **efficiency**: conduction losses and switching losses. Conduction losses happen when current is flowing through the components and thus depend on the load. They are caused by Joule effect in the resistance when th...
572. ...rld buck converter, there is also a command circuit to regulate the output voltage or the inductor current. This circuit and the MOSFET gate controller have a power consumption, impacting the overall **efficiency** of the converter. A buck converter can be used to maximize the power transfer through the use of impedance matching. An application of this is in a "maximum power point tracker" commonly used in phot...
573. ...ions: A comparable small market segment (much less than 1 million tonnes/year) of polyester is used to produce engineering plastics and masterbatch. In order to produce the polyester melt with a high **efficiency**, high-output processing steps like staple fiber (50–300 tonnes/day per spinning line) or POY /FDY (up to 600 tonnes/day split into about 10 spinning machines) are meanwhile more and more vertically i...
574. ...unit of absorbed dose first introduced by Herbert Parker in 1945 to replace an improper application of the roentgen unit to biological tissue. It is the absorbed energetic dose before the biological **efficiency** of the radiation is factored in. The rep has variously been defined as 83 or 93 ergs per gram of tissue (8.3/9.3 mGy) or per cm of tissue. At the time, this was thought to be the amount of energy dep...
575. ...later, they developed another version of a microfluidic Kelvin water dropper, using a microscale liquid jet (which then broke into microdroplets) shot onto a metal target, which yielded a maximum 48% **efficiency**. In "De Magnete", published in 1600, William Gilbert included studies of static electricity produced by amber and its interaction with water. He observed the formation of conical structures on water...
576. ...mer one, and the remaining two switches are in a fixed position. A two-switch buck-boost converter can be built with two diodes, but upgrading the diodes to FET switches doesn't cost much extra while **efficiency** improves due to the lower voltage drop. In the analysis above, no dissipative elements (resistors) have been considered. That means that the power is transmitted without losses from the input voltage...
577. ...ctively coupled plasma (ICP) is the presence of a magnetic field directed along the axis of the antenna. The presence of this magnetic field creates a helicon mode of operation with higher ionization **efficiency** and greater electron density than a typical ICP. The Australian National University, in Canberra, Australia, is currently researching applications for this technology. A commercially developed magnet...
578. ...phase converter (RPC) may be built as a motor-generator set. These completely isolate the load from the single-phase supply and produce balanced three-phase output. However, due to weight, cost, and **efficiency** concerns, most RPCs are not built this way. Instead, they are built out of a three-phase induction motor or generator, called an idler, on which two of the terminals (the idler inputs) are powered fr...
579. ...hree-phase motors have preferable characteristics to single-phase motors; the latter not being available in sizes over and, though available, rarely seen larger than . (Three-phase motors have higher **efficiency**, reduced complexity, with regards to starting, and three-phase power is significantly available where they are used.) Rotary phase converters are used to produce a single-phase for the single overhea...
580. ...wer itself. The static phase converter is used to start a three-phase motor. The motor then runs on a single phase with a synthesised third pole. However, this makes the power balance, and thus motor **efficiency**, extremely poor, requiring de-rating the motor (typically to 60% or less). Overheating, and quite often destruction of the motor, will result from failing to do so. (Many manufacturers and dealers sp...
581. ...s AC output from the DC bus, it is possible to power a three-phase motor from a single-phase source. Nevertheless, commercial-grade VFDs are produced that require three-phase input, as there are some **efficiency** gains to be had with such an arrangement. A typical VFD functions by rapidly switching transistors on and off to "chop" the voltage on the DC bus through what is known as pulse-width modulation (PWM)...
582. ...mer. Grain-oriented steel is used in large power and distribution transformers and in certain audio output transformers. CRNGO is less expensive than CRGO. It is used when cost is more important than **efficiency** and for applications where the direction of magnetic flux is not constant, as in electric motors and generators with moving parts. It can be used when there is insufficient space to orient components...
583. ...sated around room temperature, forcing the materials used in power-generation devices to be an alloy of bismuth, antimony, tellurium, and selenium. Recently, researchers have attempted to improve the **efficiency** of -based materials by creating structures where one or more dimensions are reduced, such as nanowires or thin films. In one such instance n-type bismuth telluride was shown to have an improved Seebe...
584. ...rters are solid-state designs, there are little to no moving parts except for cooling fans. In turn, this allows digital phase converters to be fit into small packages and operate between 95% and 98% **efficiency**. These converters also do not draw power when idling, reducing overall costs and increasing longevity. In Europe, electricity is normally generated as three-phase AC at 50 hertz. Five European countr...
585. ...bly the simplest numerical method that still provides a rigorous solution. It is incredibly versatile and able to solve virtually any problem in electromagnetics. The primary drawback of FDFD is poor **efficiency** compared to other methods. On modern computers, however, a huge array of problems are easily handled such as calculated guided modes in waveguides, calculating scattering from an object, calculating...
586. ...nel’s Telegestore project in Italy, a pioneering initiative in smart metering. In 2010, the Meters and More Association was established to promote the protocol globally, ensuring interoperability and **efficiency** in power line communication (PLC)-based smart metering systems. Meters and More is an open communication protocol designed for advanced metering infrastructure (AMI). It facilitates reliable, high-sp...
587. ...COSEM, which is a globally standardized and versatile protocol supporting multiple utilities (electricity, gas, and water), Meters and More is tailored specifically for PLC-based systems, emphasizing **efficiency**, reliability, and ease of deployment in electricity metering. There is a growing trend toward the use of TCP/IP technology as a common communication platform for Smart Meter applications, so that uti...
588. ...dicated IDS depending on the individual needs of the utility. Researchers have found that for a typical advanced metering infrastructure, the centralized IDS architecture is superior in terms of cost **efficiency** and security gains. In the United Kingdom, the Data Communication Company, which transports the commands from the supplier to the smart meter, performs an additional anomaly check on commands issued...
589. ...(RMS) value of the voltage which is a component of power transmitted; the ripple factor "γ", the ratio of RMS value to DC voltage output; the conversion ratio (also called the rectification ratio or "**efficiency**") "η", the ratio of DC output power to AC input power; and form-factor, the ratio of the RMS value of the output voltage to the average value of the output voltage. Analogous ratios for output ripple...
590. ...tivity in the 20 cm radar band the Allies used. The material had a layered structure and was based on graphite particles and other semiconductive materials embedded in a rubber matrix. The material's **efficiency** was partially reduced by the action of sea water. A related use was planned for the Horten Ho 229 aircraft. The adhesive which bonded plywood sheets in its skin was impregnated with graphite particle...
591. .... Duddell's "musical arc" operated at audio frequencies, and Duddell himself concluded that it was impossible to make the arc oscillate at radio frequencies. Valdemar Poulsen succeeded in raising the **efficiency** and frequency to the desired level. Poulsen's arc could generate frequencies of up to 200 kilohertz and was patented in 1903. After a few years of development the arc technology was transferred to Ge...
592. ...cy. There are three types for an arc oscillator: Continuous or ‘undamped’ waves (CW) were an important feature, since the use of damped waves from spark-gap transmitters resulted in lower transmitter **efficiency** and communications effectiveness, while polluting the RF spectrum with interference. The Poulsen arc converter had a tuned circuit connected across the arc. The arc converter consisted of a chamber i...
593. ...ge) between a half-reaction's thermodynamically determined reduction potential and the potential at which the redox event is experimentally observed. The term is directly related to a cell's "voltage **efficiency**". In an electrolytic cell the existence of overpotential implies that the cell requires more energy than thermodynamically expected to drive a reaction. In a galvanic cell the existence of overpotent...
594. ...mbination of two half-cells and multiple elementary steps. Each step is associated with multiple forms of overpotential. The overall overpotential is the summation of many individual losses. "Voltage **efficiency**" describes the fraction of energy lost through overpotential. For an "electrolytic" cell this is the ratio of a cell's thermodynamic potential divided by the cell's experimental potential converted t...
595. ...rimental potential converted to a percentile. For a "galvanic" cell it is the ratio of a cell's experimental potential divided by the cell's thermodynamic potential converted to a percentile. Voltage **efficiency** should not be confused with Faraday efficiency. Both terms refer to a mode through which electrochemical systems can lose energy. Energy can be expressed as the product of potential, current and time...
596. ...or a "galvanic" cell it is the ratio of a cell's experimental potential divided by the cell's thermodynamic potential converted to a percentile. Voltage efficiency should not be confused with Faraday **efficiency**. Both terms refer to a mode through which electrochemical systems can lose energy. Energy can be expressed as the product of potential, current and time (joule = volt × Ampere × second). Losses in th...
597. ...s can lose energy. Energy can be expressed as the product of potential, current and time (joule = volt × Ampere × second). Losses in the potential term through overpotentials are described by voltage **efficiency**. Losses in the current term through misdirected electrons are described by Faraday efficiency. Overpotential can be divided into many different subcategories that are not all well defined. For exampl...
598. ...e = volt × Ampere × second). Losses in the potential term through overpotentials are described by voltage efficiency. Losses in the current term through misdirected electrons are described by Faraday **efficiency**. Overpotential can be divided into many different subcategories that are not all well defined. For example, "polarization overpotential" can refer to the electrode polarization and the hysteresis fou...
599. ...is called a split-field PML, because it splits the electromagnetic fields into two unphysical fields in the PML region. A later formulation that has become more popular because of its simplicity and **efficiency** is called uniaxial PML or UPML, in which the PML is described as an artificial anisotropic absorbing material. Although both Berenger's formulation and UPML were initially derived by manually constru...
600. ...vices rely on regenerative cycles to achieve a larger temperature span than the adiabatic temperature change of the caloric materials. However, the use of external regenerators can reduce the overall **efficiency** of these devices. In 2017, researchers  demonstrated a regenerative electrocaloric cooling device that operates without external regenerators. The device employed commercial multilayer ceramic elemen...
601. ...er (UTRC) demonstrated the direct-air electrocaloric heat pump, exploiting the innovations of direct air cooling using EC polymer films and device engineering which significantly enhanced the cooling **efficiency** and performance of EC devices. In 2020, researchers demonstrated an active EC regenerator, with the innovation involved a parallel-plate design using lead scandium tantalate (PST) multilayer capacito...
602. ...capacitors, optimized through finite element modeling to enhance insulation and heat transfer. The prototype achieved a temperature span of 13 K, demonstrating the potential of EC materials for high-**efficiency** cooling applications. A study in 2020 on electrocaloric devices made significant strides in advancing the design and performance of all-solid-state cooling systems. The research introduced a scalable...
603. ...eved a maximum temperature span of 20.9 K under no-load conditions and a cooling power of 4.2 W under a moderate electric field. With a coefficient of performance (COP) reaching up to 64% of Carnot's **efficiency** when energy recovery was considered, this design marks a significant step toward making EC technology a viable alternative to traditional vapor compression cooling systems. By integrating flexible or...
604. ...y in 2023 demonstrated an efficient and self-sustaining wearable system capable of regulating body temperature using only sunlight. The EC devices, based on the EC polymer P(VDF-TrFE-CFE), offer high **efficiency**, low energy consumption, and bidirectional thermoregulation, making them suitable for wearable applications. These innovations pave the way for practical, all-day thermoregulatory solutions in challe...
605. ...a different form. These curves are useful in the selection of generator units for supplying electricity. In an electricity distribution grid, the load profile of electricity usage is important to the **efficiency** and reliability of power transmission. The power transformer or battery-to-grid are critical aspects of power distribution and sizing and modelling of batteries or transformers depends on the load pr...
606. ...the VASIMR thruster could send a payload to Mars in as little as 39 days while reaching a maximum velocity of . Certain plasma thrusters, such as the mini-helicon, are hailed for their simplicity and **efficiency**. Their theory of operation is relatively simple and can use a variety of gases, or combinations. These qualities suggest that plasma thrusters have value for many mission profiles. Possibly the most...
607. ...ve £30, more than the price of the device, in one year. As users of energy and government authorities have become aware of the need not to waste energy, more attention is being paid to the electrical **efficiency** of devices (fraction of power consumed that achieves functionality, rather than waste heat); this affects all aspects of equipment, including standby power. Standby power use can be decreased both by...
608. ...capacitor's quality factor (or "Q") is the ratio of the magnitude of its capacitive reactance formula_82 to its resistance at a given frequency formula_83: formula_84 The Q factor is a measure of its **efficiency**: the higher the Q factor of the capacitor, the closer it approaches the behavior of an ideal capacitor. Dissipation factor is its reciprocal. Ripple current is the AC component of an applied source (...
609. ...zzle velocity with a 145 g projectile. Previously MU had demonstrated a helical coil electromagnetic launcher capable of accelerating ~500 gram hollow projectiles to 150 m/s. The launcher achieved an **efficiency** as high as 32%, the highest reported in the literature as of 2007. Galvanic isolation Galvanic isolation is a principle of isolating functional sections of electrical systems to prevent current flow;...
610. ...search environment, it would be a considerable burden in production service. Electromechanical coupling coefficient The electromechanical coupling coefficient is a numerical measure of the conversion **efficiency** between electrical and acoustic energy in piezoelectric materials. Qualitatively the electromechanical coupling coefficient, "k", can be described as: Arc flash An arc flash is the light and heat pro...
611. ...es as high as 1.55 V and maximum power density as high as 0.50 W/cm of solid electrolyte area at a temperature of 1173 K (900 °C) have been obtained with long-term stable refractory metal electrodes. **Efficiency** of AMTEC cells has reached 16% in the laboratory. High-voltage multi-tube modules are predicted to have 20–25% efficiency, and power densities up to 0.2 kW/L appear to be achievable in the near futur...
612. ...900 °C) have been obtained with long-term stable refractory metal electrodes. Efficiency of AMTEC cells has reached 16% in the laboratory. High-voltage multi-tube modules are predicted to have 20–25% **efficiency**, and power densities up to 0.2 kW/L appear to be achievable in the near future. Calculations show that replacing sodium with a potassium working fluid increases the peak efficiency from 28% to 31% at...
613. ...ted to have 20–25% efficiency, and power densities up to 0.2 kW/L appear to be achievable in the near future. Calculations show that replacing sodium with a potassium working fluid increases the peak **efficiency** from 28% to 31% at 1100 K with a 1 mm thick BASE tube. Most work on AMTECs has concerned sodium working fluid devices. Potassium AMTECs have been run with potassium beta″-alumina solid electrolyte ce...
614. ...logy was not selected for the next-generation systems. While space power systems are of intrinsic interest, terrestrial applications could offer large-scale applications for AMTEC systems. At the 25% **efficiency** projected for the device and projected costs of 350 USD/kW, AMTEC could prove useful for a very wide variety of distributed generation applications including self-powered fans for high-efficiency fur...
615. ...25% efficiency projected for the device and projected costs of 350 USD/kW, AMTEC could prove useful for a very wide variety of distributed generation applications including self-powered fans for high-**efficiency** furnaces and water heaters and recreational vehicle power supplies. Double-exchange mechanism The double-exchange mechanism is a type of a magnetic exchange that may arise between ions in different o...
616. ...madynamics and Electric Propulsion Laboratory (PEPL) is a University of Michigan laboratory facility for electric propulsion and plasma application research. The primary goals of PEPL are to increase **efficiency** of electric propulsion systems, understand integration issues of plasma thrusters with spacecraft, and to identify non-propulsion applications of electric propulsion technology. It was founded by Pro...
617. ...particle before and after collision. Cross-sections at 1 MeV are such that, once created, a fast positive ion cannot be converted into a fast neutral, and this is the cause of the limited achievable **efficiency** of gas neutralisers.  The fractions of negatively charged, positively charged, and neutral particles exiting the neutraliser gas cells depend on the integrated gas density or target thickness formula...
618. ...g of a series of metal points, was added to the machine by Benjamin Wilson about 1746, and in 1762, John Canton of England (also the inventor of the first pith-ball electroscope in 1754) improved the **efficiency** of electric machines by sprinkling an amalgam of tin over the surface of the rubber. In 1729, Stephen Gray conducted a series of experiments that demonstrated the difference between conductors and no...
619. ...until the maximum electromotive force which the machine is capable of developing is reached. By means of this principle the dynamo machine develops its own magnetic field, thereby much increasing its **efficiency** and economical operation. Not by any means, however, was the dynamo electric machine perfected at the time mentioned. In 1860 an important improvement had been made by Dr. Antonio Pacinotti of Pisa w...
620. ...The MIT researchers successfully demonstrated the ability to power a 60 watt light bulb wirelessly, using two 5-turn copper coils of 60 cm (24 in) diameter, that were 2 m (7 ft) away, at roughly 45% **efficiency**. This technology can potentially be used in a large variety of applications, including consumer, industrial, medical and military. Its aim is to reduce the dependence on batteries. Further applicatio...
621. ...ectrospray process and then accelerated by a static electric field. The liquid used for this application tends to be a low-volatility ionic liquid. Like other ion thrusters, its benefits include high **efficiency**, thrust density, and specific impulse; however it has very low total thrust, on the order of micronewtons. It provides very fine attitude control or efficient acceleration of small spacecraft over lo...
622. ...trode and then the intermediates diffuse into the solution where they participate in secondary reactions. The yield of an electrosynthesis is expressed both in terms of the chemical yield and current **efficiency**. Current efficiency is the ratio of Coulombs consumed in forming the products to the total number of Coulombs passed through the cell. Side reactions decrease the current efficiency. The potential dr...
623. ...ntermediates diffuse into the solution where they participate in secondary reactions. The yield of an electrosynthesis is expressed both in terms of the chemical yield and current efficiency. Current **efficiency** is the ratio of Coulombs consumed in forming the products to the total number of Coulombs passed through the cell. Side reactions decrease the current efficiency. The potential drop between the elect...
624. ...yield and current efficiency. Current efficiency is the ratio of Coulombs consumed in forming the products to the total number of Coulombs passed through the cell. Side reactions decrease the current **efficiency**. The potential drop between the electrodes determines the rate constant of the reaction. Electrosynthesis is carried out with either constant potential or constant current. The reason one chooses one...
625. .... Electrosynthesis is carried out with either constant potential or constant current. The reason one chooses one over the other is due to a trade-off of ease of experimental conditions versus current **efficiency**. Constant potential uses current more efficiently because the current in the cell decreases with time due to the depletion of the substrate around the working electrode (stirring is usually necessary...
626. ...rs (W·h). Electric and electronic devices consume electric energy to generate desired output (light, heat, motion, etc.). During operation, some part of the energy is lost depending on the electrical **efficiency**. Electricity has been generated in power stations since 1882. The invention of the steam turbine in 1884 to drive the electric generator led to an increase in worldwide electricity consumption. In 20...
627. ...from 2019.  The table below lists the 15 countries with the highest final electricity consumption, which comprised more than 70% of the global consumption in 2022. Looking forward, increasing energy **efficiency** will result in less electricity needed for a given demand in power, but demand will increase strongly on the account of: The International Energy Agency expects revisions of subsidies for fossil fuel...
628. ...ived all the power it needed for flight from a microwave beam. Between 1969 and 1975, Bill Brown was technical director of a JPL Raytheon program that beamed 30 kW of power over a distance of at 9.6% **efficiency**. Microwave power transmission of tens of kilowatts has been well proven by existing tests at Goldstone in California (1975) and Grand Bassin on Reunion Island (1997). More recently, microwave power t...
629. ...etween a mountaintop in Maui and the island of Hawaii (92 miles away), by a team under John C. Mankins. Technological challenges in terms of array layout, single radiation element design, and overall **efficiency**, as well as the associated theoretical limits are presently a subject of research, as it was demonstrated by the Special Session on "Analysis of Electromagnetic Wireless Systems for Solar Power Trans...
630. ...solar power. The Earth-based rectenna would likely consist of many short dipole antennas connected via diodes. Microwave broadcasts from the satellite would be received in the dipoles with about 85% **efficiency**. With a conventional microwave antenna, the reception efficiency is better, but its cost and complexity are also considerably greater. Rectennas would likely be several kilometers across. A laser SBS...
631. ...ny short dipole antennas connected via diodes. Microwave broadcasts from the satellite would be received in the dipoles with about 85% efficiency. With a conventional microwave antenna, the reception **efficiency** is better, but its cost and complexity are also considerably greater. Rectennas would likely be several kilometers across. A laser SBSP could also power a base or vehicles on the surface of the Moon...
632. ...space launches and the amount of material that would need to be launched. Much of the material launched need not be delivered to its eventual orbit immediately, which raises the possibility that high **efficiency** (but slower) engines could move SPS material from LEO to GEO at an acceptable cost. Examples include ion thrusters or nuclear propulsion. Infrastructure including solar panels, power converters, and...
633. ...profile is produced from the chamber geometry, flow rate, and particular turbulence model selected. The radiation profile is developed from inputs such as water quality, lamp type (power, germicidal **efficiency**, spectral output, arc length), and the transmittance and dimension of the quartz sleeve. Proprietary CFD software simulates both the flow and radiation profiles. Once the 3D model of the chamber is b...
634. ...lize an amalgam to control mercury pressure to allow operation at a somewhat higher temperature and power density. They operate at higher temperatures and have a lifetime of up to 16,000 hours. Their **efficiency** is slightly lower than that of traditional low-pressure lamps (approx. 33% UV-C output), and power density is approximately 2–3 W/cm. Medium-pressure UV lamps operate at much higher temperatures, up...
635. ...roximately 2–3 W/cm. Medium-pressure UV lamps operate at much higher temperatures, up to about 800 degrees Celsius, and have a polychromatic output spectrum and a high radiation output but lower UV-C **efficiency** of 10% or less. Typical power density is 30 W/cm or greater. Depending on the quartz glass used for the lamp body, low-pressure and amalgam UV emit radiation at 254 nm and also at 185 nm, which has c...
636. ...V-C LEDs. UV-C LEDs use semiconductors to emit light between 255 nm and 280 nm. The wavelength emission is tuneable by adjusting the material of the semiconductor. , the electrical-to-UV-C conversion **efficiency** of LEDs was lower than that of mercury lamps. The reduced size of LEDs opens up options for small reactor systems allowing for point-of-use applications and integration into medical devices. Low powe...
637. ...actical purposes. However, it is important to stress that they are not perfect and it is often better to use other formulations such as energy modes, radiation modes, stored energy modes or radiation **efficiency** modes. Quantum vortex In physics, a quantum vortex represents a quantized flux circulation of some physical quantity. In most cases, quantum vortices are a type of topological defect exhibited in sup...
638. ...mode if the current through either of inductors L1 or L2 is allowed to fall to zero during an operating cycle. The voltage drop and switching time of diode D1 is critical to a SEPIC's reliability and **efficiency**. The diode's switching time needs to be extremely fast in order to not generate high voltage spikes across the inductors, which could cause damage to components. Fast conventional diodes or Schottky...
639. ...tors, which could cause damage to components. Fast conventional diodes or Schottky diodes may be used. The resistances in the inductors and the capacitors can also have large effects on the converter **efficiency** and output ripple. Inductors with lower series resistance allow less energy to be dissipated as heat, resulting in greater efficiency (a larger portion of the input power being transferred to the loa...
640. ...s and the capacitors can also have large effects on the converter efficiency and output ripple. Inductors with lower series resistance allow less energy to be dissipated as heat, resulting in greater **efficiency** (a larger portion of the input power being transferred to the load). Capacitors with low equivalent series resistance (ESR) should also be used for C1 and C2 to minimize ripple and prevent heat build...
641. ...duction potential (cathodic limit) from the oxidation potential (anodic limit). When the substance of interest is water, it is often referred to as the "water window". This range is important for the **efficiency** of an electrode. Out of this range, the electrodes will react with the electrolyte, instead of driving the electrochemical reaction.  In principle, ammonia has an extremely small electrochemical wind...
642. ...t statistics follow a power law, such that fragmenting a network increases the probability of blackouts, but reduces the total amount of unsatisfied electricity demand. Islanding reduces the economic **efficiency** of the wholesale power market, and is typically a last resort applied when the grid is known to be unstable but has not yet collapsed. In particular, islanding improves resilience to threats with kno...
643. ...istance and correspondingly lower inrush current. Nevertheless, across-the line starting of induction motors is accompanied by inrush currents up to 7-10 times higher than running current, and higher **efficiency** motors can experience inrush currents 10-15 times running current. In addition, starting torque can be up to 3 times higher than running torque. The starting torque transient can create a sudden mech...
644. ...utronic (does not produce neutrons). An advantage of p-B as a fusion fuel is that the primary reactor output would be energetic alpha particles, which can be directly converted to electricity at high **efficiency** using direct energy conversion. Direct conversion has achieved a 48% power efficiency against 80–90% theoretical efficiency. The energy generated by fusion inside a hot plasma cloud can be found with...
645. ...primary reactor output would be energetic alpha particles, which can be directly converted to electricity at high efficiency using direct energy conversion. Direct conversion has achieved a 48% power **efficiency** against 80–90% theoretical efficiency. The energy generated by fusion inside a hot plasma cloud can be found with the following equation: where: Energy varies with temperature, density, collision spe...
646. ...tic alpha particles, which can be directly converted to electricity at high efficiency using direct energy conversion. Direct conversion has achieved a 48% power efficiency against 80–90% theoretical **efficiency**. The energy generated by fusion inside a hot plasma cloud can be found with the following equation: where: Energy varies with temperature, density, collision speed and fuel. To reach net power produc...
647. .... Radiation is when energy escapes as light. Radiation increases with temperature. To get net power from fusion, these losses must be overcome. This leads to an equation for power output. Net Power = **Efficiency** × (Fusion − Radiation Loss − Conduction Loss) Lawson used this equation to estimate conditions for net power based on a Maxwellian cloud. However, the Lawson criterion does not apply for Polywells if...
648. ...cuum chamber would convert the alpha particles' kinetic energy to a high-voltage direct current. The alpha particles must slow down before they contact the collector plates to realize high conversion **efficiency**. In experiments, direct conversion has demonstrated a conversion efficiency of 48%. In the late 1960s several investigations studied polyhedral magnetic fields as a possibility to confine a fusion pl...
649. ...tage direct current. The alpha particles must slow down before they contact the collector plates to realize high conversion efficiency. In experiments, direct conversion has demonstrated a conversion **efficiency** of 48%. In the late 1960s several investigations studied polyhedral magnetic fields as a possibility to confine a fusion plasma. The first proposal to combine this configuration with an electrostatic...
650. ...n which the energy of a tritium decay is transferred to a scintillant molecule in solution which in turn gives off photons whose intensity and spectrum can be measured by a photomultiplier array. The **efficiency** of this process is 4–50%, depending on the scintillation cocktail used.  Carbon-14 has a long half-life of . Its maximum specific activity is . It is used in applications such as radiometric dating o...
651. ...centration and depends on the radionuclei's half-life. If every molecule were labelled, the maximum theoretical specific activity is obtained that for P-32 is 9131 Ci/mmol. Due to pre-calibration and **efficiency** issues this number is never seen on a label; the values often found are 800, 3000 and 6000 Ci/mmol. With this number it is possible to calculate the total chemical concentration and the hot-to-cold r...
652. .... Differently, drivers for pulsed operation suffer from rather low power factor and in many cases must fully recover the DBD's energy. Since pulsed operation of [DBD] lamps can lead to increased lamp **efficiency**, international research led to suiting circuit concepts. Basic topologies are resonant flyback and resonant half bridge. A flexible circuit, that combines the two topologies is given in two patent ap...
653. ...laxed templates, superlattices, and pseudo-substrates. Furthermore, electro-plated metal substrates have also shown promise in applying an external counterbalancing strain to increase the overall LED **efficiency**. In addition to traditional strain engineering that takes place with III-N LEDs, Deep Ultraviolet (DUV) LEDs, which use AlN, AlGaN, and GaN, undergo a polarity switch from TE to TM at a critical Al c...
654. ...n to creating dislocations and point defects. The former results in local current leakage while the latter enhances the nonradiative recombination process, both reducing the device's internal quantum **efficiency** (IQE). Active layer thickness can trigger the bending and annihilation of threading dislocations, surface roughening, phase separation, misfit dislocation formation, and point defects. All of these m...
655. ...equency devices. Softer materials, such as arsenic trisulfide, tellurium dioxide and tellurite glasses, lead silicate, GeAsS, mercury(I) chloride, lead(II) bromide, with slow acoustic waves make high **efficiency** devices at lower frequencies, and give high resolution. Earth potential rise In electrical engineering, earth potential rise (EPR), also called ground potential rise (GPR), occurs when a large curren...
656. ...pplication of Trypsin. Cells are then counted per unit volume manually (through application of Hemocytometer) or electrically. Cells are then isolated and incubated for a 1-2 week period. The plating **efficiency** is determined by the ratio of colonies observed and colonies plated. When viewing this in relation to the cell survival curve, separate cells are then plated parallel with increasing doses of radiati...
657. ...plated parallel with increasing doses of radiation. Surviving fraction is the ratio between the number of colonies that survive said doses of radiation divided by the cells seeded when taking plating **efficiency** into account. Cell survival curves are generally plotted as a Logarithmic surviving fraction of cells versus a linear dose of Radiation. There are two basic types of cell survival curves: Linear (exp...
658. ...line. Two general interpretations have been made on the differences between the low-dose region and the high dose region. One of these is the Target Theory, and the other interpretation reflects the **efficiency** of enzymatic repair diminishing with increased numbers of lesions, often referring to repair models. Target Theory, often called the “multi hit model” when examining cell radiation, examines how ioni...
659. ...n that edge magnetic islands affect particle fueling and exhaust. In HSX, the presence of a magnetic island chain at the plasma edge increases the plasma sourcing to exhaust ratio but reduces fueling **efficiency** by 25%. Moving the island radially inward decreases both the effective and global particle confinement times. This process is effective for controlling plasma fueling and helium exhaust times. HSX ha...
660. ...ectric generators could be used in power plants and factories to convert waste heat into additional electrical power and in automobiles as automotive thermoelectric generators (ATGs) to increase fuel **efficiency**. Radioisotope thermoelectric generators use radioisotopes to generate the required temperature difference to power space probes. Thermoelectric generators can also be used alongside solar panels. In...
661. ...ce any power, only incident light, but he had no explanation for how it could be working. The operational principle is now understood to have been a very simple form of Schottky junction. The typical **efficiency** of TEGs is around 5–8%, although it can be higher. Older devices used bimetallic junctions and were bulky. More recent devices use highly doped semiconductors made from bismuth telluride (BiTe), lead...
662. ...ces and unlike dynamos have no moving parts, with the occasional exception of a fan or pump to improve heat transfer. If the hot region is around 1273K and the ZT values of 3 - 4 are implemented, the **efficiency** is approximately 33-37%; allowing TEG's to compete with certain heat engine efficiencies. As of 2021, there are materials (some containing widely available and inexpensive arsenic and tin) reaching a...
663. ...large voltage while in a temperature gradient. The measure of the magnitude of electrons flow in response to a temperature difference across that material is given by the Seebeck coefficient (S). The **efficiency** of a given material to produce a thermoelectric power is simply estimated by its “figure of merit” zT = SσT/κ. For many years, the main three semiconductors known to have both low thermal conductivit...
664. ...mong other applications. One of the key advantages of thermoelectric generators outside of such specialized applications is that they can potentially be integrated into existing technologies to boost **efficiency** and reduce environmental impact by producing usable power from waste heat. A thermoelectric module is a circuit containing thermoelectric materials which generate electricity from heat directly. A th...
665. ...hat they survive these tough mechanical and thermal conditions. Also, the module must be designed such that the two thermoelectric materials are thermally in parallel, but electrically in series. The **efficiency** of a thermoelectric module is greatly affected by the geometry of its design. Thermoelectric generators are made of several thermopiles, each consisting of many thermocouples made of a connected n-ty...
666. ...flow is vertical between plates. Microcavities under the hot contacts of the device allow for a temperature gradient, which allows for the substrate’s thermal conductivity to affect the gradient and **efficiency** of the device. For microelectromechanical systems, TEGs can be designed on the scale of handheld devices to use body heat in the form of thin films. Flexible TEGs for wearable electronics are able to...
667. ...at exchangers are used on both sides of the modules to supply this heating and cooling. There are many challenges in designing a reliable TEG system that operates at high temperatures. Achieving high **efficiency** in the system requires extensive engineering design to balance between the heat flow through the modules and maximizing the temperature gradient across them. To do this, designing heat exchanger tech...
668. ...ng and cooling sources. If AC power is required (such as for powering equipment designed to run from AC mains power), the DC power from the TE modules must be passed through an inverter, which lowers **efficiency** and adds to the cost and complexity of the system. Only a few known materials to date are identified as thermoelectric materials. Most thermoelectric materials today have a zT, the figure of merit, v...
669. ...zing new materials and fabricating material structures with improved thermoelectric performance. Recent research has focused on improving the material’s figure-of-merit (zT), and hence the conversion **efficiency**, by reducing the lattice thermal conductivity. Researchers are trying to develop new thermoelectric materials for power generation by improving the figure-of-merit zT. One example of these materials...
670. ...very, then the cost per watt is only determined by the power per unit area and the operating period. As a result, it has initiated a search for materials with high power output rather than conversion **efficiency**. For example, the rare earth compounds YbAl has a low figure-of-merit, but it has a power output of at least double that of any other material, and can operate over the temperature range of a waste h...
671. ...ith low to modest power needs in remote uninhabited or inaccessible locations such as mountaintops, the vacuum of space, or the deep ocean. The main uses of thermoelectric generators are: Besides low **efficiency** and relatively high cost, practical problems exist in using thermoelectric devices in certain types of applications resulting from a relatively high electrical output resistance, which increases self...
672. ...t would grow at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 18.3% in the period from 2015 to 2020 due to the high demand of thermoelectric generators by the automotive industries to increase overall fuel **efficiency**, as well as the growing industrialization in the region. Small scale thermoelectric generators are also in the early stages of investigation in wearable technologies to reduce or replace charging and...
673. ...ramic materials have been made with anti-ferroelectric ceramics. This material has a nonlinear antiferroelectric/ferroelectric phase change that allows increased energy storage with higher volumetric **efficiency**. They are used for energy storage (for example, in detonators). The different ceramic materials used for ceramic capacitors, paraelectric or ferroelectric ceramics, influences the electrical characte...
674. ...raelectric material, for example . The additives of the chemical composition are used to adjust precisely the desired temperature characteristic. Class 1 ceramic capacitors have the lowest volumetric **efficiency** among ceramic capacitors. This is the result of the relatively low permittivity (6 to 200) of the paraelectric materials. Therefore, class 1 capacitors have capacitance values in the lower range. Cla...
675. ...oscillator circuits. Class 1 capacitors exhibit very small tolerances of the rated capacitance. Class 2 ceramic capacitors have a dielectric with a high permittivity and therefore a better volumetric **efficiency** than class 1 capacitors, but lower accuracy and stability. The ceramic dielectric is characterized by a nonlinear change of capacitance over the temperature range. The capacitance value also depends...
676. ...at maximum rated voltage. Type BR has a TVC limit of +15%/-40%. Class 3 barrier layer or semiconductive ceramic capacitors have very high permittivity, up to 50,000 and therefore a better volumetric **efficiency** than class 2 capacitors. However, these capacitors have worse electrical characteristics, including lower accuracy and stability. The dielectric is characterized by very high nonlinear change of capa...
677. ...the market for decades. They are produced according to the requirements as class 1 power ceramic capacitors with high stability and low losses or class 2 power ceramic capacitors with high volumetric **efficiency**. Class 1 power ceramic capacitors are used for resonant circuit application in transmitter stations. Class 2 power ceramic capacitors are used for circuit breakers, for power distribution lines, for...
678. ...le only after modern QED techniques based on Feynman diagrams were available for quantitative predictions, and on the experimental side photon detectors with high energy resolution and high detection **efficiency** had been developed. This was the case at the beginning of the 1970s when also computers with high computing capacity were in operation which delivered numerical results for Delbrück scattering amplit...
679. ...ect traveling within a fluid, and is accompanied by a vertical protrusion. If it occurs in a river, wise boaters upstream steer clear of its appearance. The degree of their formation can indicate the **efficiency** of a boat's hull design. The magnitude of these features in a boat increases with speed, while the relationship is inversely proportional for airplanes. Energetic volcanic eruptions can create rooste...
680. ...llers on boats can produce a rooster tail of water in their wake, in the form of a fountain which shoots into the air behind the boat. The faster a boat goes, the larger the rooster tails become. The **efficiency** of a boat's hull design can be judged by the magnitude of the rooster tail—larger rooster tails indicate less efficient designs. If a water skier is in tow, the skis also throw off a rooster tail. Ai...
681. ...lls in the body. Magnetofection has been adapted to a variety of vectors, including nucleic acids, non-viral transfection systems, and viruses. This method offers advantages such as high transfection **efficiency** and biocompatibility which are balanced with limitations. The term magnetofection, currently trademarked by the company OZ Biosciences, combines the words magnetic and transfection. Magnetofection us...
682. ...ection attempts to unite the advantages of biochemical (cationic lipids or polymers) and physical (electroporation, gene gun) transfection methods. It allows for local delivery with high transfection **efficiency**, faster incubation time, and biocompatibility. Coupling magnetic nanoparticles to gene vectors results in hundreds-fold increase of the uptake of these vectors on a time scale of minutes, thus leadin...
683. ...e, and biocompatibility. Coupling magnetic nanoparticles to gene vectors results in hundreds-fold increase of the uptake of these vectors on a time scale of minutes, thus leading to high transfection **efficiency**. Gene vector and magnetic nanoparticle complexes are transfected into cells after 10–15 minutes, which is faster than the 2–4 hours that other transfection methods require. After 24, 48 or 72 hours,...
684. ...recombination plays a major role in organic solar cells, where the semiconductors are characterized by low mobility. In these systems, maximizing the carrier lifetime is synonymous to maximizing the **efficiency** of the device. A solar cell is an electrical device in which a semiconductor is exposed to light that is converted into electricity through the photovoltaic effect. Electrons are either excited throu...
685. ...l, which is the drifting force that moves the electrons. Also, the electrons can be forced to move by diffusion from higher concentration to lower concentration of electrons. In order to maximize the **efficiency** of the solar cell, it is desirable to have as many charge carriers as possible collected at the electrodes of the solar cell. Thus, recombination of electrons (among other factors that influence effi...
686. ...ency of the solar cell, it is desirable to have as many charge carriers as possible collected at the electrodes of the solar cell. Thus, recombination of electrons (among other factors that influence **efficiency**) must be avoided. This corresponds to an increase in the carrier lifetime. Surface recombination occurs at the top of the solar cell, which makes it preferable to have layers of material that have gr...
687. ...base-emitter junction, as well as SRH- and Auger recombination in the base region. Specifically, Auger recombination increases when the amount of injected charge carriers grows, hence decreasing the **efficiency** of the current gain with growing injection numbers. In semiconductor lasers, the carrier lifetime is the time it takes an electron before recombining via non-radiative processes in the laser cavity....
688. ...e of carrier lifetime on the carrier density is expressed as: where A, B and C are the non-radiative, radiative and Auger recombination coefficients and formula_2 is the carrier lifetime. Because the **efficiency** of a semiconductor device generally depends on its carrier lifetime, it is important to be able to measure this quantity. The method by which this is done depends on the device, but is usually depend...
689. ...process of applying this film, defects appear on the silicon layer, which degrades the carrier lifetime. Reducing the amount of damage done during this process is therefore important to increase the **efficiency** of the solar cell, and a focus of current research. In addition to research that seeks to optimize currently favoured technologies, there is a great deal of research surrounding other, less-utilized...
690. ...materials emit different energies of gamma photons, the calibration has to be repeated to cover the expected energy range: usually 120 to 2,000 keV. Examples of radioactive isotopes that are used for **efficiency** calibration include Co, Co, Y, Cs and Eu. Although the phantom was designed to be used lying down, it is used in any orientation. Performance testing: BOMAB phantoms are sometimes used by performance...
691. ...of individual fibers can be woven into a yarn. CNT-based yarns find applications in energy and electrochemical water treatment and can replace copper windings, e.g. in motors, which would improve the **efficiency** and consequently reduce the use of energy.  Standard Commands for Programmable Instruments The Standard Commands for Programmable Instruments (SCPI; often pronounced "skippy") defines a standard for...
692. ...the need for brushes which is usually a weak part in an electric machine. It also allows designs which make it very easy to manufacture the rotor. A metal cylinder will work as rotor, but to improve **efficiency** a "squirrel cage" rotor or a rotor with closed windings is usually used. The speed of asynchronous induction machines will decrease with increased load because a larger speed difference between stato...
693. ...program or operating system crashes, and possibly hardware damage. Reducing the voltage supplied to the CPU below the manufacturer's recommended minimum setting can result in system instability. The **efficiency** of some electrical components, such as voltage regulators, decreases with increasing temperature, so the power used may increase with temperature causing thermal runaway. Increases in voltage or freq...
694. ...rs consume reactive power and are used to regulate voltage on long transmission lines. In light load conditions, where the loading on transmission lines is well below the surge impedance loading, the **efficiency** of the power system may actually be improved by switching in reactors. Reactors installed in series in a power system also limit rushes of current flow, small reactors are therefore almost always ins...
695. ...sed ATEGs, the cold-side heat exchanger uses ambient air as the cooling fluid. Currently, ATEGs are about 5% efficient. However, advancements in thin-film and quantum well technologies could increase **efficiency** up to 15% in the future. The efficiency of an ATEG is governed by the thermoelectric conversion efficiency of the materials and the thermal efficiency of the two heat exchangers. The ATEG efficiency...
696. ...uses ambient air as the cooling fluid. Currently, ATEGs are about 5% efficient. However, advancements in thin-film and quantum well technologies could increase efficiency up to 15% in the future. The **efficiency** of an ATEG is governed by the thermoelectric conversion efficiency of the materials and the thermal efficiency of the two heat exchangers. The ATEG efficiency can be expressed as: Where: The primary...
697. ...% efficient. However, advancements in thin-film and quantum well technologies could increase efficiency up to 15% in the future. The efficiency of an ATEG is governed by the thermoelectric conversion **efficiency** of the materials and the thermal efficiency of the two heat exchangers. The ATEG efficiency can be expressed as: Where: The primary goal of ATEGs is to reduce fuel consumption and therefore reduce op...
698. ...ilm and quantum well technologies could increase efficiency up to 15% in the future. The efficiency of an ATEG is governed by the thermoelectric conversion efficiency of the materials and the thermal **efficiency** of the two heat exchangers. The ATEG efficiency can be expressed as: Where: The primary goal of ATEGs is to reduce fuel consumption and therefore reduce operating costs of a vehicle or help the vehic...
699. ...efficiency up to 15% in the future. The efficiency of an ATEG is governed by the thermoelectric conversion efficiency of the materials and the thermal efficiency of the two heat exchangers. The ATEG **efficiency** can be expressed as: Where: The primary goal of ATEGs is to reduce fuel consumption and therefore reduce operating costs of a vehicle or help the vehicle comply with fuel efficiency standards. Forty...
700. ...hangers. The ATEG efficiency can be expressed as: Where: The primary goal of ATEGs is to reduce fuel consumption and therefore reduce operating costs of a vehicle or help the vehicle comply with fuel **efficiency** standards. Forty percent of an IC engine's energy is lost through exhaust gas heat. Implementing ATEGs in diesel engines seems to be more challenging compared to gasoline engines due to lower exhaust...
701. ...om prototyping to production has been the cost of the underlying thermoelectric materials. Since the early-2000s, many research agencies and institutions poured large sums of money into advancing the **efficiency** of thermoelectric materials. While efficiency improvements were made in materials such as the half heuslers and skutterudites, like their predecessors bismuth telluride and lead telluride, the cost o...
702. ...of the underlying thermoelectric materials. Since the early-2000s, many research agencies and institutions poured large sums of money into advancing the efficiency of thermoelectric materials. While **efficiency** improvements were made in materials such as the half heuslers and skutterudites, like their predecessors bismuth telluride and lead telluride, the cost of these materials has proven prohibitive for l...
703. ...formance. This can be accounted for by downsizing the muffler, resulting in zero net or even negative total back-pressure on the engine, as Faurecia and other companies have shown. To make the ATEG's **efficiency** more consistent, coolant is usually used on the cold-side heat exchanger rather than ambient air so that the temperature difference will be the same on both hot and cold days. This may increase the r...
704. ...ansferred to the coolant. Proper thermal design does not require an upsized cooling system. The added weight of ATEGs causes the engine to work harder, resulting in lower gas mileage. Most automotive **efficiency** improvement studies of ATEGs, however, have resulted in a net positive efficiency gain even when considering the weight of the device. Although the Seebeck effect was discovered in 1821, the use of t...
705. ...g system. The added weight of ATEGs causes the engine to work harder, resulting in lower gas mileage. Most automotive efficiency improvement studies of ATEGs, however, have resulted in a net positive **efficiency** gain even when considering the weight of the device. Although the Seebeck effect was discovered in 1821, the use of thermoelectric power generators was restricted mainly to military and space applica...
706. ..., the use of thermoelectric power generators was restricted mainly to military and space applications until the second half of the twentieth century. This restriction was caused by the low conversion **efficiency** of thermoelectric materials at that time. In 1963, the first ATEG was built and reported by Neild et al. In 1988, Birkholz et al. published the results of their work in collaboration with Porsche. Th...
707. ...ous research indicated 2500 lux was required to suppress melatonin production. Circadian and other behavioral responses have shown to be more sensitive at lower wavelengths than the photopic luminous **efficiency** function that is based on sensitivity to cone receptors. The core region of the SCN houses the majority of light-sensitive neurons. From here, signals are transmitted via a nerve connection with the...
708. ...up being pulled rightward by the electric field. Again, the total leftward motion of an electron, per photon absorbed, cannot be much larger than the mean free path. A consequence is that the quantum **efficiency** of a thick device is extremely low. It may require millions of photons to bring a single electron from one electrode to the other. As the thickness increases, the current goes down as much as the vol...
709. ...emperatures takes a lot of energy. The refrigeration power required to maintain the cryogenic bath at low temperature in the presence of heat from small RF power dissipation is dictated by the Carnot **efficiency**, and can easily be comparable to the normal-conductor power dissipation of a room-temperature copper cavity. The principle motivations for using superconducting RF cavities, are: When future advances...
710. ...The small power that is dissipated in an SRF cavity and the heat leak to the vacuum vessel are both heat loads at very low temperature. The refrigerator must replenish this loss with an inherent poor **efficiency**, given by the product of the Carnot efficiency "η" and a "practical" efficiency "η". The Carnot efficiency derives from the second law of thermodynamics and can be quite low. It is given by where In...
711. ...vity and the heat leak to the vacuum vessel are both heat loads at very low temperature. The refrigerator must replenish this loss with an inherent poor efficiency, given by the product of the Carnot **efficiency** "η" and a "practical" efficiency "η". The Carnot efficiency derives from the second law of thermodynamics and can be quite low. It is given by where In most cases "T ="300 K, so for "T ≥"150 K the Ca...
712. ...uum vessel are both heat loads at very low temperature. The refrigerator must replenish this loss with an inherent poor efficiency, given by the product of the Carnot efficiency "η" and a "practical" **efficiency** "η". The Carnot efficiency derives from the second law of thermodynamics and can be quite low. It is given by where In most cases "T ="300 K, so for "T ≥"150 K the Carnot efficiency is unity. The pra...
713. ...ads at very low temperature. The refrigerator must replenish this loss with an inherent poor efficiency, given by the product of the Carnot efficiency "η" and a "practical" efficiency "η". The Carnot **efficiency** derives from the second law of thermodynamics and can be quite low. It is given by where In most cases "T ="300 K, so for "T ≥"150 K the Carnot efficiency is unity. The practical efficiency is a catc...
714. ...and a "practical" efficiency "η". The Carnot efficiency derives from the second law of thermodynamics and can be quite low. It is given by where In most cases "T ="300 K, so for "T ≥"150 K the Carnot **efficiency** is unity. The practical efficiency is a catch-all term that accounts for the many mechanical non-idealities that come into play in a refrigeration system aside from the fundamental physics of the Car...
715. ...he Carnot efficiency derives from the second law of thermodynamics and can be quite low. It is given by where In most cases "T ="300 K, so for "T ≥"150 K the Carnot efficiency is unity. The practical **efficiency** is a catch-all term that accounts for the many mechanical non-idealities that come into play in a refrigeration system aside from the fundamental physics of the Carnot efficiency. For a large refrige...
716. ...unity. The practical efficiency is a catch-all term that accounts for the many mechanical non-idealities that come into play in a refrigeration system aside from the fundamental physics of the Carnot **efficiency**. For a large refrigeration installation there is some economy of scale, and it is possible to achieve "η" in the range of 0.2–0.3. The wall-plug power consumed by the refrigerator is then where As an...
717. ...K helium. The superfluid "λ" point occurs at about 38 Torr (5.1 kPa), corresponding to 2.18 K helium. Most SRF systems either operate at atmospheric pressure, 4.2 K, or below the λ point at a system **efficiency** optimum usually around 1.8 K, corresponding to about 12 Torr (1.6 kPa). Slow-wave potential A slow-wave potential is a rhythmic electrophysiological event in the gastrointestinal tract. The normal co...
718. ...as well as excitatory (acetylcholine and Substance P) and inhibitory (vasoactive intestinal peptide and nitric oxide) compounds. Textbook of Medical Physiology - Gyton and Hall (12th edition) Faraday **efficiency** In electrochemistry, Faraday efficiency (also called faradaic efficiency, faradaic yield, coulombic efficiency, or current efficiency) describes the efficiency with which charge (electrons) is transf...
719. ...Substance P) and inhibitory (vasoactive intestinal peptide and nitric oxide) compounds. Textbook of Medical Physiology - Gyton and Hall (12th edition) Faraday efficiency In electrochemistry, Faraday **efficiency** (also called faradaic efficiency, faradaic yield, coulombic efficiency, or current efficiency) describes the efficiency with which charge (electrons) is transferred in a system facilitating an electr...
720. ...oactive intestinal peptide and nitric oxide) compounds. Textbook of Medical Physiology - Gyton and Hall (12th edition) Faraday efficiency In electrochemistry, Faraday efficiency (also called faradaic **efficiency**, faradaic yield, coulombic efficiency, or current efficiency) describes the efficiency with which charge (electrons) is transferred in a system facilitating an electrochemical reaction. The word "Far...
721. ...oxide) compounds. Textbook of Medical Physiology - Gyton and Hall (12th edition) Faraday efficiency In electrochemistry, Faraday efficiency (also called faradaic efficiency, faradaic yield, coulombic **efficiency**, or current efficiency) describes the efficiency with which charge (electrons) is transferred in a system facilitating an electrochemical reaction. The word "Faraday" in this term has two interrelate...
722. ...ook of Medical Physiology - Gyton and Hall (12th edition) Faraday efficiency In electrochemistry, Faraday efficiency (also called faradaic efficiency, faradaic yield, coulombic efficiency, or current **efficiency**) describes the efficiency with which charge (electrons) is transferred in a system facilitating an electrochemical reaction. The word "Faraday" in this term has two interrelated aspects: first, the h...
723. ...- Gyton and Hall (12th edition) Faraday efficiency In electrochemistry, Faraday efficiency (also called faradaic efficiency, faradaic yield, coulombic efficiency, or current efficiency) describes the **efficiency** with which charge (electrons) is transferred in a system facilitating an electrochemical reaction. The word "Faraday" in this term has two interrelated aspects: first, the historic unit for charge is...
724. ...), could recombine to form water. This could realistically happen in the presence of catalytic materials such as platinum or palladium commonly used as electrodes. Failure to account for this Faraday-**efficiency** effect has been identified as the cause of the misidentification of positive results in cold fusion experiments. Proton exchange membrane fuel cells provide another example of faradaic losses when so...
725. ..., the electrolyte membrane would be a perfect insulator and prevent this from happening. An especially familiar example of faradaic loss is the self-discharge that limits battery shelf-life. Faradaic **efficiency** of a cell design is usually measured through bulk electrolysis where a known quantity of reagent is stoichiometrically converted to product, as measured by the current passed. This result is then com...
726. ...system. Another is overpotential, the difference between the theoretical and actual electrode voltages needed to drive the reaction at the desired rate. Even a rechargeable battery with 100% faradaic **efficiency** requires charging at a higher voltage than it produces during discharge, so its overall energy efficiency is the product of voltage efficiency and faradaic efficiency. Voltage efficiencies below 100%...
727. ...ded to drive the reaction at the desired rate. Even a rechargeable battery with 100% faradaic efficiency requires charging at a higher voltage than it produces during discharge, so its overall energy **efficiency** is the product of voltage efficiency and faradaic efficiency. Voltage efficiencies below 100% reflect the thermodynamic irreversibility of every real-world chemical reaction. Galvani potential In ele...
728. ...red rate. Even a rechargeable battery with 100% faradaic efficiency requires charging at a higher voltage than it produces during discharge, so its overall energy efficiency is the product of voltage **efficiency** and faradaic efficiency. Voltage efficiencies below 100% reflect the thermodynamic irreversibility of every real-world chemical reaction. Galvani potential In electrochemistry, the Galvani potential...
729. ...eable battery with 100% faradaic efficiency requires charging at a higher voltage than it produces during discharge, so its overall energy efficiency is the product of voltage efficiency and faradaic **efficiency**. Voltage efficiencies below 100% reflect the thermodynamic irreversibility of every real-world chemical reaction. Galvani potential In electrochemistry, the Galvani potential (also called Galvani pot...
730. ...ve of the reduced electrochemical potential of electrons given in units of volts. It is noted that what one experimentally measures using an inert metallic probe and a voltmeter is formula_6. Faraday-**efficiency** effect The Faraday-efficiency effect refers to the potential for misinterpretation of data from experiments in electrochemistry through failure to take into account a Faraday efficiency of less than...
731. ...cal potential of electrons given in units of volts. It is noted that what one experimentally measures using an inert metallic probe and a voltmeter is formula_6. Faraday-efficiency effect The Faraday-**efficiency** effect refers to the potential for misinterpretation of data from experiments in electrochemistry through failure to take into account a Faraday efficiency of less than 100 percent. Until recent deca...
732. ...la_6. Faraday-efficiency effect The Faraday-efficiency effect refers to the potential for misinterpretation of data from experiments in electrochemistry through failure to take into account a Faraday **efficiency** of less than 100 percent. Until recent decades it was common to assume that the release of hydrogen and oxygen gas during electrolysis of water always has a Faraday efficiency of 100%. Pons and Fleis...
733. ...into account a Faraday efficiency of less than 100 percent. Until recent decades it was common to assume that the release of hydrogen and oxygen gas during electrolysis of water always has a Faraday **efficiency** of 100%. Pons and Fleischmann, and other investigators who reported the finding of anomalous excess heat in electrolytic cells, all relied on this popular assumption. No one bothered to measure the F...
734. ...%. Pons and Fleischmann, and other investigators who reported the finding of anomalous excess heat in electrolytic cells, all relied on this popular assumption. No one bothered to measure the Faraday **efficiency** in their cells during the experiments. Many publications reporting the finding of excess heat included an explicit statement like: "The Faraday efficiency is assumed to be unity." Even if not explici...
735. ...tion. No one bothered to measure the Faraday efficiency in their cells during the experiments. Many publications reporting the finding of excess heat included an explicit statement like: "The Faraday **efficiency** is assumed to be unity." Even if not explicitly stated so, these publications included this implicit assumption in the formulas used to calculate the cells' energy balance. Lacking any other plausibl...
736. ...it was discovered that such excess heat can easily be the product of conventional chemistry, i.e. internal recombination of hydrogen and oxygen. Such recombination leads to a reduction in the Faraday **efficiency** of the electrolysis. The Faraday-efficiency effect is the observation of anomalous excess heat due to a reduction in the Faraday efficiency. From 1991-1993 a group of investigators, headed by Zvi Shk...
737. ...easily be the product of conventional chemistry, i.e. internal recombination of hydrogen and oxygen. Such recombination leads to a reduction in the Faraday efficiency of the electrolysis. The Faraday-**efficiency** effect is the observation of anomalous excess heat due to a reduction in the Faraday efficiency. From 1991-1993 a group of investigators, headed by Zvi Shkedi, in the state of Massachusetts, USA, bui...
738. ...gen. Such recombination leads to a reduction in the Faraday efficiency of the electrolysis. The Faraday-efficiency effect is the observation of anomalous excess heat due to a reduction in the Faraday **efficiency**. From 1991-1993 a group of investigators, headed by Zvi Shkedi, in the state of Massachusetts, USA, built well-insulated cells and calorimeters which included the capability to measure the actual Far...
739. ...m 1991-1993 a group of investigators, headed by Zvi Shkedi, in the state of Massachusetts, USA, built well-insulated cells and calorimeters which included the capability to measure the actual Faraday **efficiency** in real-time during the experiments. The cells were of the light-water type; with a fine-wire nickel cathode; a platinum anode; and KCO electrolyte. The calorimeters were calibrated to an accuracy of...
740. ...on, the investigators show details of their calorimeters' design and teach the technology of achieving high calorimetric accuracy. A total of 64 experiments were performed in which the actual Faraday **efficiency** was measured. The results were analyzed twice; once with the popular assumption that the Faraday efficiency is 100%, and, again, taking into account the measured Faraday efficiency in each experiment...
741. ...calorimetric accuracy. A total of 64 experiments were performed in which the actual Faraday efficiency was measured. The results were analyzed twice; once with the popular assumption that the Faraday **efficiency** is 100%, and, again, taking into account the measured Faraday efficiency in each experiment. The average Faraday efficiency measured in these experiments was 78%. The first analysis, assuming a Farad...
742. ...the actual Faraday efficiency was measured. The results were analyzed twice; once with the popular assumption that the Faraday efficiency is 100%, and, again, taking into account the measured Faraday **efficiency** in each experiment. The average Faraday efficiency measured in these experiments was 78%. The first analysis, assuming a Faraday efficiency of 100%, yielded an average apparent excess heat of 21% of...
743. ...ults were analyzed twice; once with the popular assumption that the Faraday efficiency is 100%, and, again, taking into account the measured Faraday efficiency in each experiment. The average Faraday **efficiency** measured in these experiments was 78%. The first analysis, assuming a Faraday efficiency of 100%, yielded an average apparent excess heat of 21% of input power. The term "apparent excess heat" was co...
744. ...100%, and, again, taking into account the measured Faraday efficiency in each experiment. The average Faraday efficiency measured in these experiments was 78%. The first analysis, assuming a Faraday **efficiency** of 100%, yielded an average apparent excess heat of 21% of input power. The term "apparent excess heat" was coined by the investigators to indicate that the actual Faraday efficiency was ignored in t...
745. ...suming a Faraday efficiency of 100%, yielded an average apparent excess heat of 21% of input power. The term "apparent excess heat" was coined by the investigators to indicate that the actual Faraday **efficiency** was ignored in the analysis. The second analysis, taking into account the measured Faraday efficiency, yielded an actual excess heat of 0.13% +/- 0.48%. In other words, when the actual Faraday effici...
746. ...e term "apparent excess heat" was coined by the investigators to indicate that the actual Faraday efficiency was ignored in the analysis. The second analysis, taking into account the measured Faraday **efficiency**, yielded an actual excess heat of 0.13% +/- 0.48%. In other words, when the actual Faraday efficiency was measured and taken into account, the energy balance of the cells was zero, with no excess hea...
747. ...ciency was ignored in the analysis. The second analysis, taking into account the measured Faraday efficiency, yielded an actual excess heat of 0.13% +/- 0.48%. In other words, when the actual Faraday **efficiency** was measured and taken into account, the energy balance of the cells was zero, with no excess heat. This investigation has shown how conventional chemistry, i.e. internal recombination of hydrogen an...
748. ...estigators concluded their publication with the following word of advice: "All reports claiming the observation of excess heat should be accompanied by simultaneous measurements of the actual Faraday **efficiency**." Jones et al. have confirmed the Shkedi et al. findings with the same conclusion: "Faradaic efficiencies less than 100% during electrolysis of water can account for reports of excess heat in 'cold f...
749. ...gnitude of the force per unit length agrees with the expression for formula_54 shown above. Chronologically ordered: Performance per watt In computing, performance per watt is a measure of the energy **efficiency** of a particular computer architecture or computer hardware. Literally, it measures the rate of computation that can be delivered by a computer for every watt of power consumed. This rate is typically...
750. ...he energy required to run a particular benchmark, for instance EEMBC EnergyBench. Energy consumption figures for a standard workload may make it easier to judge the effect of an improvement in energy **efficiency**. When performance is defined as , then performance per watt can be written as . Since a watt is one , then performance per watt can also be written as . FLOPS per watt is a common measure. Like the F...
751. ...erefore intelligent techniques are required to manage GPU power consumption. Measures like 3DMark2006 score per watt can help identify more efficient GPUs. However that may not adequately incorporate **efficiency** in typical use, where much time is spent doing less demanding tasks. With modern GPUs, energy usage is an important constraint on the maximum computational capabilities that can be achieved. GPU desi...
752. ...may be used to mask increasing power demands. For instance, though newer generation GPU architectures may provide better performance per watt, continued performance increases can negate the gains in **efficiency**, and the GPUs continue to consume large amounts of power. Benchmarks that measure power under heavy load may not adequately reflect typical efficiency. For instance, 3DMark stresses the 3D performanc...
753. ...ed performance increases can negate the gains in efficiency, and the GPUs continue to consume large amounts of power. Benchmarks that measure power under heavy load may not adequately reflect typical **efficiency**. For instance, 3DMark stresses the 3D performance of a GPU, but many computers spend most of their time doing less intense display tasks (idle, 2D tasks, displaying video). So the 2D or idle efficien...
754. ...ficiency. For instance, 3DMark stresses the 3D performance of a GPU, but many computers spend most of their time doing less intense display tasks (idle, 2D tasks, displaying video). So the 2D or idle **efficiency** of the graphics system may be at least as significant for overall energy efficiency. Likewise, systems that spend much of their time in standby or soft off are not adequately characterized by just ef...
755. ...ers spend most of their time doing less intense display tasks (idle, 2D tasks, displaying video). So the 2D or idle efficiency of the graphics system may be at least as significant for overall energy **efficiency**. Likewise, systems that spend much of their time in standby or soft off are not adequately characterized by just efficiency under load. To help address this some benchmarks, like SPECpower, include m...
756. ...cy of the graphics system may be at least as significant for overall energy efficiency. Likewise, systems that spend much of their time in standby or soft off are not adequately characterized by just **efficiency** under load. To help address this some benchmarks, like SPECpower, include measurements at a series of load levels. The efficiency of some electrical components, such as voltage regulators, decreases...
757. ...time in standby or soft off are not adequately characterized by just efficiency under load. To help address this some benchmarks, like SPECpower, include measurements at a series of load levels. The **efficiency** of some electrical components, such as voltage regulators, decreases with increasing temperature, so the power used may increase with temperature. Power supplies, motherboards, and some video cards a...
758. ...arious surfaces during a process referred to as “flip-chip” packaging. The thermal bump can be integrated as a part of the standard flip-chip process (Figure 1) or integrated as discrete devices. The **efficiency** of a thermoelectric device is measured by the heat moved (or pumped) divided by the amount of electrical power supplied to move this heat. This ratio is termed the coefficient of performance or COP a...
759. ...onventional solder bumped interconnects to provide active, integrated cooling of a flip-chipped component using the widely accepted copper pillar bumping process. The result is higher performance and **efficiency** within the existing semiconductor manufacturing paradigm. The thermal bump also enables power generating capabilities within copper pillar bumps for energy recycling applications. Thermal bumps have...
760. ...hniques, it is possible to make gaps between 0.1 and 0.5 millimeters, and narrower gaps have been created using microlithography techniques. Another important parameter for an RRDE is the "collection **efficiency**". This parameter is a measure of the percentage of the material generated at the disk electrode which is detected at the ring electrode. For any given set of RRDE dimensions (disk OD, ring ID, and ri...
761. ...measure of the percentage of the material generated at the disk electrode which is detected at the ring electrode. For any given set of RRDE dimensions (disk OD, ring ID, and ring OD), the collection **efficiency** can be computed using formulae derived from fluid dynamics first principles. One useful aspect of the theoretical collection efficiency is that it is only a function of the RRDE dimensions. That is,...
762. ...RRDE dimensions (disk OD, ring ID, and ring OD), the collection efficiency can be computed using formulae derived from fluid dynamics first principles. One useful aspect of the theoretical collection **efficiency** is that it is only a function of the RRDE dimensions. That is, it is independent of the rotation rate over a wide range of rotation rates. It is desirable for an RRDE to have a large collection effic...
763. ...iency is that it is only a function of the RRDE dimensions. That is, it is independent of the rotation rate over a wide range of rotation rates. It is desirable for an RRDE to have a large collection **efficiency** if only to assure that the current signal measured at the ring electrode is detectable. On the other hand, it also desirable for an RRDE to have a small transit time so that short-lived (unstable) in...
764. ...short-lived (unstable) intermediate products generated at the disk survive long enough to be detected at the ring. The choice of actual RRDE dimensions is often a trade-off between a large collection **efficiency** or a short transit time. Superinsulator A superinsulator is a material that at low but finite temperatures does not conduct electricity, i.e. has an infinite resistance so that no electric current pa...
765. ...one quarter of residential energy use, larger than either heating or cooling energy end-use. In Passive Haus and other low-energy houses, this percentage increases due to dramatic whole-house energy **efficiency** improvements while MELs remain largely unaltered. MELs are known by other terms elsewhere in the world, e.g. as "Small Power" in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Reducing energy loads of main systems...
766. ...repared using capacitor and battery type storage mechanisms. Currently, the best electrochemical species is lithium titanium oxide (LTO), , because of its extraordinary properties like high coulombic **efficiency**, stable operating voltage plateau and insignificant volume alteration during lithium insertion/desertion. Bare LTO has poor electrical conductivity and lithium ion diffusivity so a hybrid is needed....
767. ...crystalline silicon or poly-crystalline silicon panels, while newer technologies have used thin-film solar cells. Since modern solar cells were introduced in 1954 at Bell labs, advances in solar cell **efficiency** at converting light into electric power, and modern manufacturing techniques combined with efficiencies of scale have led to an international growth of photovoltaics. The first solar light patent was...
768. ...o an international growth of photovoltaics. The first solar light patent was filed by Maurice E Paradise in 1955. As of 2016, LED lamps use only about 10% of the energy an incandescent lamp requires. **Efficiency** in production of LED lamps has led to increased adoption as an alternative to older electric lightings Most solar panels are made out of single crystalline silicon, a semiconductor material. When lig...
769. ...metal hydride, nickel cadmium, or lithium. This part of the lamp saves up energy from the solar panel and provides power when needed at night when there is no light energy available. In general, the **efficiency** of photovoltaic energy conversion is limited for physical reasons. Around 24% of solar radiation of a long wavelength is not absorbed. 33% is heat lost to surroundings, and further losses are of appr...
770. ...sation, lighting protection, reverse polarity protection and AC transfer switches which ensure sensitive back-up loads work normally when outage occurs. LED lights are used due to their high luminous **efficiency** and long life. Under the control of a DC charge controller, non-contact control automatically turns on the light at dark and switches off at daytime. It sometimes also combines with time controllers...
771. ...erse way of the magnetocaloric refrigerators. Experiments have produced only extremely inefficient working prototypes, however, thermodynamic analysis indicate that thermomagnetic motors present high **efficiency** related to Carnot efficiency for small temperature differences around the magnetic material Curie temperature. The thermomagnetic motor principle has been studied as a possible actuator in smart mate...
772. ...c refrigerators. Experiments have produced only extremely inefficient working prototypes, however, thermodynamic analysis indicate that thermomagnetic motors present high efficiency related to Carnot **efficiency** for small temperature differences around the magnetic material Curie temperature. The thermomagnetic motor principle has been studied as a possible actuator in smart materials, being successful in th...
773. ...sheet rolling simulation, the results of the two methods were similar. FFT has a larger speed advantage in cases where the boundary conditions are given in the materials strain, and loses some of its **efficiency** in cases where the stress is used to apply the boundary conditions, as more iterations of the method are needed. The FE and FFT methods can also be combined in a voxel based method (2) to simulate de...
774. ...tion of VOC's can be achieved in the annular reactor for specific energies of 3 J cm−3 and above. Furthermore, specific energies approaching 10 J cm−3 are required to achieve a comparable destruction **efficiency** in the cross-flow reactor. This indicates that optimization of the reactor geometry is a critical aspect of achieving maximum destruction efficiencies. Koutsospyros "et al." (2004, 2005) and Yin "et...
775. ...." (2003) reported results regarding studies of VOC destruction using CPE plasma reactors. All compounds studied reached maximum VOC destruction efficiencies between 95% and 100%. The VOC destruction **efficiency** increased initially with the specific energy, but remained at values of the specific energy that are compound-dependent. A similar observation was made for the dependence of the VOC destruction effic...
776. ...iency increased initially with the specific energy, but remained at values of the specific energy that are compound-dependent. A similar observation was made for the dependence of the VOC destruction **efficiency** on the residence time. The destruction efficiency increased with rising initial contaminant concentration. For chemically similar compounds, the maximum destruction efficiency was found to be inverse...
777. ..., but remained at values of the specific energy that are compound-dependent. A similar observation was made for the dependence of the VOC destruction efficiency on the residence time. The destruction **efficiency** increased with rising initial contaminant concentration. For chemically similar compounds, the maximum destruction efficiency was found to be inversely related to the ionization energy of the compoun...
778. ...of the VOC destruction efficiency on the residence time. The destruction efficiency increased with rising initial contaminant concentration. For chemically similar compounds, the maximum destruction **efficiency** was found to be inversely related to the ionization energy of the compound and directly related to the degree of chemical substitution. This may suggest that chemical substitution sites offer the hig...
779. ...st to designs that use permanent magnets to generate this field instead. Such devices may have a minimum working voltage, below which the device does not work correctly, or does so at greatly reduced **efficiency**. Some will disconnect themselves from the circuit when these conditions apply. The effect is more pronounced in doubly-fed induction generators (DFIG), which have two sets of powered magnetic winding...
780. ...semiconductor devices and circuits have required new tools in topology to deal with them. Enormous increases in circuit complexity have led to the use of combinatorics in graph theory to improve the **efficiency** of computer calculation. Networks are commonly classified by the kind of electrical elements making them up. In a circuit diagram these element-kinds are specifically drawn, each with its own unique...
781. ...lephone exchanges and computer data centers. Batteries have much lower specific energy (energy per unit mass) than common fuels such as gasoline. In automobiles, this is somewhat offset by the higher **efficiency** of electric motors in converting electrical energy to mechanical work, compared to combustion engines. Benjamin Franklin first used the term "battery" in 1749 when he was doing experiments with elect...
782. ...After enough recharges, in essence all capacity is lost and the battery stops producing power. Internal energy losses and limitations on the rate that ions pass through the electrolyte cause battery **efficiency** to vary. Above a minimum threshold, discharging at a low rate delivers more of the battery's capacity than at a higher rate. Installing batteries with varying A·h ratings changes operating time, but...
783. ...ol of the user, can provide feedback about energy use, without revealing information to others. Drawing links between their behavior and energy consumption may help reduce energy consumption, improve **efficiency**, flatten peak loads, save money, or balance appliance use with green energy availability. However the use of a stand-alone system does not protect one from remote monitoring. The accuracy and capabil...
784. ...arying demands for power output and provide that power in the most efficient manner possible. There are two main constraints placed on PPUs: Major considerations in building PPUs are weight, size and **efficiency**. Most PPUs process and supply direct current because that is what is generated by a solar array. The PPU is also responsible for voltage conversion and supplying the required voltage to other subsyst...
785. ...ives at the effective disk area of the machine. If the effective area of the disk is A, and the wind velocity v, the maximum theoretical power output P is: where "ρ" is the air density. Wind-to-rotor **efficiency** (including rotor blade friction and drag) are among the factors affecting the final price of wind power. Further inefficiencies, such as gearbox, generator, and converter losses, reduce the power del...
786. ...turbine. To protect components from undue wear, extracted power is held constant above the rated operating speed as theoretical power increases as the cube of wind speed, further reducing theoretical **efficiency**. In 2001, commercial utility-connected turbines delivered 75% to 80% of the Betz limit of power extractable from the wind, at rated operating speed. Efficiency can decrease slightly over time, one of...
787. ...ind speed, further reducing theoretical efficiency. In 2001, commercial utility-connected turbines delivered 75% to 80% of the Betz limit of power extractable from the wind, at rated operating speed. **Efficiency** can decrease slightly over time, one of the main reasons being dust and insect carcasses on the blades, which alter the aerodynamic profile and essentially reduce the lift to drag ratio of the airfoi...
788. ...had no decrease, while the other half saw a production decrease of 1.2% per year. In general, more stable and constant weather conditions (most notably wind speed) result in an average of 15% greater **efficiency** than that of a wind turbine in unstable weather conditions, thus allowing up to a 7% increase in wind speed under stable conditions. This is due to a faster recovery wake and greater flow entrainment...
789. ...eric stability. However, wind turbine wakes have been found to recover faster under unstable atmospheric conditions as opposed to a stable environment. Different materials have varying effects on the **efficiency** of wind turbines. In an Ege University experiment, three wind turbines, each with three blades with a diameter of one meter, were constructed with blades made of different materials: A glass and glas...
790. ...hen tested, the results showed that the materials with higher overall masses had a greater friction moment and thus a lower power coefficient. The air velocity is the major contributor to the turbine **efficiency**. This is the reason for the importance of choosing the right location. The wind velocity will be high near the shore because of the temperature difference between the land and the ocean. Another opti...
791. ...ground-based gearbox, improving accessibility for maintenance. However, these designs produce much less energy averaged over time, which is a major drawback. Vertical turbine designs have much lower **efficiency** than standard horizontal designs. The key disadvantages include the relatively low rotational speed with the consequential higher torque and hence higher cost of the drive train, the inherently lower...
792. ...equately resist the additional stress. Subtypes of the vertical axis design include: "Eggbeater" turbines, or Darrieus turbines, were named after the French inventor, Georges Darrieus. They have good **efficiency**, but produce large torque ripple and cyclical stress on the tower, which contributes to poor reliability. They also generally require some external power source, or an additional Savonius rotor to st...
793. ...curved blades may be used. These are drag-type devices with two (or more) scoops that are used in anemometers, "Flettner" vents (commonly seen on bus and van roofs), and in some high-reliability low-**efficiency** power turbines. They are always self-starting if there are at least three scoops. Twisted Savonius is a modified savonius, with long helical scoops to provide smooth torque. This is often used as a r...
794. ...ting wind turbines have been measured using digital image correlation and photogrammetry. Three dimensional point tracking has also been used to measure rotating dynamics of wind turbines. Generally, **efficiency** increases along with turbine blade lengths. The blades must be stiff, strong, durable, light and resistant to fatigue. Materials with these properties include composites such as polyester and epoxy,...
795. ...gular maintenance to stay reliable and available. In the best case turbines are available to generate energy 98% of the time. Ice accretion on turbine blades has also been found to greatly reduce the **efficiency** of wind turbines, which is a common challenge in cold climates where in-cloud icing and freezing rain events occur. Deicing is mainly performed by internal heating or in some cases, by helicopters sp...
796. ...tions constituting the junction. When such a bridge is used, the ions in the bridge are present in large excess at the junction and they carry almost the whole of the current across the boundary. The **efficiency** of KCl/NHNO is connected with the fact that in these salts, the transport numbers of anions and cations are the same. Marchywka effect The Marchywka effect refers to electrochemical cleaning of diamo...
797. ...Their operation was largely understood in the late 1800s from the theories by Wilhelm Ostwald and Walther Nernst. In 1894 Ostwald explained the energy conversion in a fuel cell and stressed that its **efficiency** was not limited by thermodynamics. Ostwald, together with Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff, and Svante Arrhenius, was a founding father of electrochemistry and chemical ionic theory, and received a Nobel...
798. ...target them, and move them into position for irradiation as fast as possible. Throughputs of up to 15,000 cells per hour have been achieved. Particles must be counted with a high degree of detection **efficiency** in order to guarantee that a specific number of ions are delivered to a single cell. Generally, detectors can be placed before or after the target to be irradiated. If the detector is placed after th...

=== PERIOD OF TIME (62 occurrences) ===
1. ...nt flowing for a time as . Constant, instantaneous and average current are expressed in amperes (as in "the charging current is 1.2 A") and the charge accumulated (or passed through a circuit) over a **period of time** is expressed in coulombs (as in "the battery charge is "). The relation of the ampere (C/s) to the coulomb is the same as that of the watt (J/s) to the joule. The international system of units (SI) i...
2. ...old of detectability expressed by the Heisenberg uncertainty relation, Δ"E" · Δ"t" ≥ "ħ". In effect, the energy needed to create these virtual particles, Δ"E", can be "borrowed" from the vacuum for a **period of time**, Δ"t", so that their product is no more than the reduced Planck constant, . Thus, for a virtual electron, Δ"t" is at most . While an electron–positron virtual pair is in existence, the Coulomb force...
3. ...l molecular weight. On the other hand, chain scission is fragmentation of polymer chains that leads to a molecular weight reduction. To treat the food, it is exposed to a radioactive source for a set **period of time** to achieve a desired dose. Radiation may be emitted by a radioactive substance, or by X-ray and electron beam accelerators. Special precautions are taken to ensure the food stuffs never come in conta...
4. ...e description of light, as the energy of the emitted electrons did not depend on the intensity of the incident radiation. Classical theory predicted that the electrons would 'gather up' energy over a **period of time**, and then be emitted. These are extremely light-sensitive vacuum tubes with a coated photocathode inside the envelope. The photo cathode contains combinations of materials such as cesium, rubidium, a...
5. ...he most important advantage of SMES is that the time delay during charge and discharge is quite short. Power is available almost instantaneously and very high power output can be provided for a brief **period of time**. Other energy storage methods, such as pumped hydro or compressed air, have a substantial time delay associated with the energy conversion of stored mechanical energy back into electricity. Thus if d...
6. ...ompared to the resonant frequency of the resonator-topload assembly. When the switch closes, energy is transferred from the primary LC circuit to the resonator where the voltage rings up over a short **period of time** up culminating in the electrical discharge. In a spark gap Tesla coil, the primary-to-secondary energy transfer process happens repetitively at typical pulsing rates of 50–500 times per second, depen...
7. ...) that provide secondary power to wastewater treatment plants in case of a blackout.  ASPS should be able to supply enough power to run the plant effectively, and be available for start-up in a short **period of time** in case of emergency. Types of ASPS necessary for adequate power generation include: internal combustion engines, microturbines, solar cells, fuel cells, and wind turbines.  ASPS technology is requir...
8. ...e effects could last up to 12 hours after the exposure. Due to the long exposure time needed to see any of these effects it is unlikely that anyone would see these effects even if exposed for a small **period of time**. Also, the human body will see little effect as signals are passed chemically and not electrically making it hard to be affected by EMP waves. The United States EMP Commission was created by the Unit...
9. ...rovide 10 to 20 seconds of protection before the flywheel has slowed and power output stops. It is traditionally used in conjunction with standby generators, providing backup power only for the brief **period of time** the engine needs to start running and stabilize its output. The rotary UPS is generally reserved for applications needing more than 10,000 W of protection, to justify the expense and benefit from the...
10. ...emitted light is generated, is idealized as a layer within which the photons of light interact with the material in the photosphere and achieve a common temperature "T" that is maintained over a long **period of time**. Some photons escape and are emitted into space, but the energy they carry away is replaced by energy from within the star, so that the temperature of the photosphere is nearly steady. Changes in the...
11. ...ide range of biological changes may follow the irradiation of animals. These vary from rapid death following high doses of penetrating whole-body radiation, to essentially normal lives for a variable **period of time** until the development of delayed radiation effects, in a portion of the exposed population, following low dose exposures. The unit of actual "exposure" is the röntgen, defined in ionisations per unit...
12. ...ty and duration, while spacecraft with the proper instruments have been available to observe the event. Radiation levels in the belts would be dangerous to humans if they were exposed for an extended **period of time**. The Apollo missions minimised hazards for astronauts by sending spacecraft at high speeds through the thinner areas of the upper belts, bypassing inner belts completely, except for the Apollo 14 mis...
13. ...event where humans traveled through the Van Allen belts, which was one of several radiation hazards known by mission planners. The astronauts had low exposure in the Van Allen belts due to the short **period of time** spent flying through them. Astronauts' overall exposure was actually dominated by solar particles once outside Earth's magnetic field. The total radiation received by the astronauts varied from missi...
14. ...between spin up and spin down. Methods include putting a material in a large magnetic field (Zeeman effect), the exchange energy present in a ferromagnet or forcing the system out of equilibrium. The **period of time** that such a non-equilibrium population can be maintained is known as the spin lifetime, formula_4. In a diffusive conductor, a spin diffusion length formula_5 can be defined as the distance over whic...
15. ...are copper to be etched away. Multi-layer printed circuit boards have trace layers inside the board. This is achieved by laminating a stack of materials in a press by applying pressure and heat for a **period of time**. This results in an inseparable one piece product. For example, a four-layer PCB can be fabricated by starting from a two-sided copper-clad laminate, etch the circuitry on both sides, then laminate t...
16. ...ngth or duration of the spark. Hence, a longer on time produces a deeper cavity from each spark, creating a rougher finish on the workpiece. The reverse is true for a shorter on time. Off time is the **period of time** between sparks. Although not directly affecting the machining of the part, the off time allows the flushing of dielectric fluid through a nozzle to clean out the eroded debris. Insufficient debris re...
17. ...t efficient when driving a load that requires 7.5 HP. Efficiency also depends on motor size; larger motors tend to be more efficient. Some motors can not operate continually for more than a specified **period of time** (e.g. for more than an hour per run) Eric Laithwaite proposed a metric to determine the 'goodness' of an electric motor: Where: From this, he showed that the most efficient motors are likely to have...
18. ...radiation syndrome (ARS), also known as radiation sickness or radiation poisoning, is a collection of health effects that are caused by being exposed to high amounts of ionizing radiation in a short **period of time**. Symptoms can start within an hour of exposure, and can last for several months. Early symptoms are usually nausea, vomiting and loss of appetite. In the following hours or weeks, initial symptoms ma...
19. ...eviously with pig skin using high energy beta sources at the Churchill Hospital Research Institute, in Oxford. ARS is caused by exposure to a large dose of ionizing radiation (> ~0.1 Gy) over a short **period of time** (> ~0.1 Gy/h). Alpha and beta radiation have low penetrating power and are unlikely to affect vital internal organs from outside the body. Any type of ionizing radiation can cause burns, but alpha an...
20. ...an internal dose quantities in calculating committed dose. This is dose from radionuclides which have been ingested or inhaled into the human body, and thereby "committed" to irradiate the body for a **period of time**. The concepts of calculating protection quantities as described for external radiation applies, but as the source of radiation is within the tissue of the body, the calculation of absorbed organ dose...
21. ...examples can help illustrate relative magnitudes; these are meant to be examples only, not a comprehensive list of possible radiation doses. An "acute dose" is one that occurs over a short and finite **period of time**, while a "chronic dose" is a dose that continues for an extended period of time so that it is better described by a dose rate. All conversions between hours and years have assumed continuous presence...
22. ...only, not a comprehensive list of possible radiation doses. An "acute dose" is one that occurs over a short and finite period of time, while a "chronic dose" is a dose that continues for an extended **period of time** so that it is better described by a dose rate. All conversions between hours and years have assumed continuous presence in a steady field, disregarding known fluctuations, intermittent exposure and r...
23. ...a or Sv/a, where they are understood to represent an average over the entire year. In many occupational scenarios, the hourly dose rate might fluctuate to levels thousands of times higher for a brief **period of time**, without infringing on the annual limits. The conversion from hours to years varies because of leap years and exposure schedules, but approximate conversions are: Conversion from hourly rates to annu...
24. ...d. When an action potential is triggered, the membrane potential abruptly shoots upward and then equally abruptly shoots back downward, often ending below the resting level, where it remains for some **period of time**. The shape of the action potential is stereotyped; this means that the rise and fall usually have approximately the same amplitude and time course for all action potentials in a given cell. (Exceptio...
25. ...pleted their Apprenticeship and who have been found by the local, State, or National licensing body to be competent in the electrical trade. Master Electricians have performed well in the trade for a **period of time**, often seven to ten years, and have passed an exam to demonstrate superior knowledge of the National Electrical Code, or NEC. Service electricians are tasked to respond to requests for isolated repai...
26. ...eakdown of the skin occurs. The protection offered by the skin is lowered by perspiration, and this is accelerated if electricity causes muscles to contract above the let-go threshold for a sustained **period of time**. If an electrical circuit is established by electrodes introduced in the body, bypassing the skin, then the potential for lethality is much higher if a circuit through the heart is established. This...
27. ...a capacitor are connected with a low-resistance conductor, like a wire. With a low resistance in the connection, a high current will flow, causing the delivery of a large amount of energy in a short **period of time**. A high current flowing through a battery can cause a rapid increase of temperature, potentially resulting in an explosion with the release of hydrogen gas and electrolyte (an acid or a base), which...
28. ...zaki said that Kirby is a neutral character, designed to reflect the player's emotions in the game, and for this reason, he does not express strong emotions that could conflict with the player. For a **period of time** beginning with 2002's "", Kirby consistently appeared in North American promotional material with a more serious expression than in Japan, where his expression was cheerful. Kumazaki said that the mo...
29. ...ency spectrum in more detail. A normal swept spectrum analyzer would produce max peak, min peak displays for example but a realtime spectrum analyzer is able to plot all calculated FFT's over a given **period of time** with the added colour-coding which represents how often a signal appears. For example, this image shows the difference between how a spectrum is displayed in a normal swept spectrum view and using a...
30. ...e gas can accumulate. A number of specialised dosimetry techniques are used to evaluate the dose that a building's occupants may receive. Records of legal dosimetry results are usually kept for a set **period of time**, depending upon the legal requirements of the nation in which they are used. Medical radiation exposure monitoring is the practice of collecting dose information from radiology equipment and using th...
31. ...n classified into five types related to the type of sediment in which the fulgurite formed, as follows: The presence of fulgurites in an area can be used to estimate the frequency of lightning over a **period of time**, which can help to understand past regional climates. Paleolightning is the study of various indicators of past lightning strikes, primarily in the form of fulgurites and lightning-induced remanent m...
32. ...eview". Many experimenters including Elihu Thomson at Thomas Edison's lab, William J. Morton, and Nikola Tesla also reported burns. Elihu Thomson deliberately exposed a finger to an x-ray tube over a **period of time** and experienced pain, swelling, and blistering. Other effects, including ultraviolet rays and ozone were sometimes blamed for the damage. Many physicists claimed that there were no effects from x-ray...
33. ...ls. This connection enables him to manipulate various magical powers, similar to those possessed by the Wizard Shazam. However, as a consequence, Billy is forcibly bound to the Rock of Eternity for a **period of time**. Later on, Billy takes a step further by binding the Rock of Eternity to himself, allowing him to control both his former powers and the magic within the Rock through his empowered form. Thus far, he...
34. ...ficient method of removing unwanted cells, such as tumor cells, because large numbers of animals lacking specific cells could be generated. Genetically ablated lines can be maintained for a prolonged **period of time** and shared within the research community. Researchers at Columbia University report of reconstituted caspases combined from "C. elegans" and humans, which maintain a high degree of target specificity...
35. ...epresent the total amount of radiation allowed (or received) over the entire year. In many occupational scenarios, the hourly dose rate might fluctuate to levels thousands of times higher for a brief **period of time**, without infringing on the annual total exposure limits. The annual conversions to a Julian year are: The International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) once adopted fixed conversion for...
36. ...first condition to be fulfilled is that the system is close to the chemical equilibrium. A second set of conditions is that the system is submitted to very small solicitations spread on a sufficient **period of time** so, that the chemical equilibrium conditions nearly always prevail. In theory, it is very difficult to experimentally achieve reversible conditions because any perturbation imposed to a system near e...
37. ...eduction of a given metal cation to be deposited onto a metallic surface to be protected. Such a system is far from equilibrium and continuously submitted to important and constant changes in a short **period of time** The larger the value of the standard reduction potential, the easier it is for the element to be reduced (gain electrons); in other words, they are better oxidizing agents.  For example, F has a stan...
38. ...nstrument is sometimes called a cymometer, particularly one of Chinese manufacture. Most frequency counters work by using a counter, which accumulates the number of events occurring within a specific **period of time**. After a preset period known as the "gate time" (1 second, for example), the value in the counter is transferred to a display, and the counter is reset to zero. If the event being measured repeats it...
39. ...924, Hans Berger revealed that one could measure the electrical activity of the human brain by placing electrodes on the scalp and amplifying the signal. Changes in voltage can then be plotted over a **period of time**. He observed that the voltages could be influenced by external events that stimulated the senses. The EEG proved to be a useful source in recording brain activity over the ensuing decades. However, i...
40. ...ng various things that have happened with the car and his father's fascination with it. The car will frequently give off what they dub "lightquakes", or large flashes of purple light over an extended **period of time**. These lights will occasionally "give birth" to strange plants and creatures that are not like anything in our world. Two people have disappeared in the vicinity of the car — Wilcox's former partner...
41. ...age to the device by causing its operating temperature to exceed safe levels. In semiconductors, irreparable damage can occur very quickly. Exceeding the power rating of most devices for a very short **period of time** is not harmful, although doing so regularly can sometimes cause cumulative damage. Power ratings for electrical apparatus and transmission lines are a function of the duration of the proposed load an...
42. ...ed electrodes. The percutaneous electrodes consist of thin wires inserted through the skin and into muscular tissue close to the targeted nerve. These electrodes typically remain in place for a short **period of time** and are only considered for short-term FES interventions. However, it is worth mentioning that some groups, such as Cleveland FES Center, have been able to safely use percutaneous electrodes with ind...
43. ...ompose a random vector field u(x, t) into a set of deterministic spatial functions "Φ"("x") modulated by random time coefficients "a"("t") so that: The first step is to sample the vector field over a **period of time** in what we call snapshots (as display in the image of the POD snapshots). This snapshot method is averaging the samples over the space dimension n, and correlating them with each other along the time...
44. ...tion for the estimated radioresistance of a species. Irradiated specimens are not instantly killed, unless exposed to a very high dose (acute dose). Therefore, irradiated specimens die over a certain **period of time** and lower irradiation doses correspond to longer survival. This means that the radiation dose LD fluctuates with the time at which it is measured. For example, the β radiation dose that causes 50% mo...
45. ...ether they are sinusoidal or not. This is particularly useful in power electronics, where non-sinusoidal waveforms are common. In general, engineers are interested in the active power averaged over a **period of time**, whether it is a low frequency line cycle or a high frequency power converter switching period. The simplest way to get that result is to take the integral of the instantaneous calculation over the d...
46. ...lectronic instruments measure many parameters and can be used where a wattmeter is needed: volts, current in amperes, apparent instantaneous power, actual power, power factor, energy in [k]W·h over a **period of time**, and cost of electricity consumed. Keraunography Keraunography or keranography is the belief that lightning, when striking an object (generally a human body), can leave markings which constitute a ph...
47. ...and are a useful indicator for medical examiners when trying to determine the cause of death. Although humans being struck by lightning is of course rare, it is nonetheless possible that over a wide **period of time**, certain cases of burn marks would exist which could be said to resemble objects nearby the point of the lightning strike. However, these cases are almost certainly the product of coincidence rather...
48. ...APD is usually pulsed at 1 Hz, with the background BaO source on for 10-20 milliseconds at a time. If the LaB source is being utilized, it typically discharges together BaO cathode, but for a shorter **period of time** (about 5–8 ms) nearing the end of each discharge cycle. The use of an oxide-cathode plasma source, along with a well-designed transistor switch for the discharge, allows for a plasma environment whic...
49. ...can be frequently re-calibrated at regular time interval and is easily maintained during its service life. However, this may be an issue if the electrode has to remain immersed on-line for prolonged **period of time**, or is inaccessible for particular constrains related to the nature of the measurements itself (geochemical measurements under elevated water pressure in harsh environments or under anoxic or reducin...
50. ...ry. Many engineers have refused to believe that a bistable device can enter into a state that is neither "true" nor "false" and has a positive probability that it will remain indefinite for any given **period of time**, albeit with exponentially decreasing probability over time. However, metastability is an inevitable result of any attempt to map a continuous domain to a discrete one. At the boundaries in the conti...
51. ...osthetic metal hand to substitute for it. In another laboratory accident, with a new ray, if he received a high voltage electric shock (from power lines, etc.) he would become invisible for a limited **period of time**, with the exception of his artificial hand. Crandell initially used his newfound gift to steal, and became a psychotic criminal. In early strips, he was clearly a villain, but he later decided to use...
52. ...l resolution, due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. In some contexts, such as particle physics, this trade-off can be attributed to the finite speed of light and the fact that it takes a certain **period of time** for the photons carrying information to reach the observer. In this time, the system might have undergone changes itself. Thus, the longer the light has to travel, the lower the temporal resolution....
53. ...ontal magnetic measurements. MT exploration surveys are done to acquire resistivity data which can be interpreted to create a model of the subsurface. Data is acquired at each sounding location for a **period of time** (overnight soundings are common), with physical spacing between soundings dependent on the target size and geometry, local terrain constraints and financial cost. Reconnaissance surveys can have spac...
54. ...the amalgamated zinc of Sturgeon with mercury. His version was the first of the two-fluid class battery and the first battery that produced a constant reliable source of electric current over a long **period of time**. William Grove produced the first fuel cell in 1839. He based his experiment on the fact that sending an electric current through water splits the water into its component parts of hydrogen and oxyge...
55. ...of electrical faults in underground power cables. Electrical treeing first occurs and propagates when a dry dielectric material is subjected to high and divergent electrical field stress over a long **period of time**. Electrical treeing is observed to originate at points where impurities, gas voids, mechanical defects, or conducting projections cause excessive electrical field stress within small regions of the d...
56. ...BIA for several hours after moderate or high-intensity exercise. BIA is considered reasonably accurate for measuring groups, of limited accuracy for tracking body composition in an individual over a **period of time**, but is not considered sufficiently accurate for recording of single measurements of individuals. Consumer-grade devices for measuring BIA have not been found to be sufficiently accurate for single-m...
57. ...applying a voltage sufficient to initiate the proper internal chemical state. This state is maintained by regular use of the equipment. If a system using electrolytic capacitors is unused for a long **period of time** it can lose its conditioning. Sometimes they fail with a short circuit when next operated. All capacitors have varying lifespans, depending upon their construction, operational conditions, and enviro...
58. ...riations Séculaires des Orbites Planétaires" (VSOP) is a modern numerical model that tries to address the problem. In economics market trends are the upward or downward movement of a market, during a **period of time** and in the financial field are classified as "secular", "primary" and "secondary" for long, medium and short time frames.  Geomagnetic secular variation refers to some changes in the Earth's magnetic...
59. ...e Curie point. Class 1 capacitors do not experience ferroelectric aging like Class 2's. But environmental influences such as higher temperature, high humidity and mechanical stress can, over a longer **period of time**, lead to a small irreversible decline in capacitance, sometimes also called aging. The change of capacitance for P 100 and N 470 Class 1's is lower than 1%, for capacitors with N 750 to N 1500 cerami...
60. ...y in one of these storms will most likely come from the dominant cell near or after its peak updraft strength. This is because there could be severe hail from a strong updraft that lasts only a short **period of time**, with damaging winds. Rain is an important impact of such systems. The speed and direction at which the entire cluster of thunderstorms move downstream make the difference in the amount of rain recei...
61. ...rcuit containing a capacitor or inductor, the component draws out the resulting change in voltage or current, causing the system to take a substantial amount of time to reach a new steady state. This **period of time** is known as the transient state. A capacitor acts as a short circuit immediately after the switch is closed, increasing its impedance during the transient state until it acts as an open circuit in it...
62. ...pulses that do not recur at a fixed rate. With triggered sweeps, the scope blanks the beam and starts to reset the sweep circuit each time the beam reaches the extreme right side of the screen. For a **period of time**, called "holdoff", (extendable by a front-panel control on some better oscilloscopes), the sweep circuit resets completely and ignores triggers. Once holdoff expires, the next trigger starts a sweep....
